Good day and welcome to the Abercrombie &amp; Fitch Second Quarter Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Eric Cerny.
Mr.
Cerny please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to our second quarter earnings call.
Earlier today we released our second quarter sales and earnings income statement balance sheet store opening and closing summary and an updated financial history.
Please feel free to reference these materials available on our website.
Also available on our website is an investor presentation which we will be referring to in our comments during this call.
This call is being recorded and the replay may be accessed through the Internet at abercrombie.com under the Investors section.
Before we begin I remind you that any forward-looking statements we may make today are subject to the Safe Harbor statement found in our SEC filings.
Today's earnings call will be limited to one hour.
Joining me today on the call are Mike Jeffries and Jonathan Ramsden.
We will begin the call with a few brief remarks from Mike followed by a review of the financial performance for the quarter from Jonathan.
After our prepared comments we will be available to take your questions for as long as time permits.
Now to Mike.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
We are pleased that our results for the quarter continued to reflect strong momentum both in the U.S.
and Europe.
For the third consecutive quarter our sales were up more than 20%.
This included a strong performance from new stores particularly the Paris flagship but also the 19 new Hollister stores we have opened in Europe in the last 12 months.
In addition our U.S.
chain store business performed well for the quarter particularly Hollister fueled by what we believe is a compelling assortment and supported by effective pricing and promotional strategies.
We had long anticipated that the second quarter would be challenging from an operating income standpoint considering the effects of investments we are making for future growth.
In that context we are pleased that our top line performance enabled us to significantly beat our internal goal for the quarter and achieve a 71% year-over-year increase in operating income.
Our second quarter results marked the midpoint of the 3-year roadmap we laid out at the beginning of last year.
Our focus remains very much on execution against our strategy and the key roadmap objectives while always maintaining a long-term view.
We believe maintaining that long-term approach is even more critical today given the uncertainty in the macroeconomic environment.
I will come back to that in a moment.
First I want to take a few minutes to review our performance to date against our roadmap goals.
Starting with U.S.
store productivity we have clearly delivered on the objectives we laid out in February of last year and we believe we are on course to sustain meaningful improvements and drive back toward peak productivity levels.
These improvements have been driven by several factors.
First and foremost by having the right merchandise and maintaining a compelling and differentiated store experience.
In addition our pricing and promotional strategies have played a role in the productivity improvements we have seen and we have improved our execution of these strategies.
However no one should conclude that even in the U.S.
chain business this is a purely price-driven business.
Even in an environment where price is increasingly important you have to be a desirable brand that clearly stands for something in the eye of the consumer.
With regard to marketing and customer engagement we have made progress but we still see plenty of opportunity ahead of us.
Turning to international.
We expect to hit our goal of close to 40 international Hollister openings and 5 A&amp;F flagship location openings this year.
Overall the international stores we have already opened continue to perform very strongly.
Tomorrow marks the opening of our first Hollister store in Asia at the Festival Walk mall in Hong Kong.
This is a significant milestone for us and we look forward to our first openings in Mainland China later in the year.
In Europe the performance of our Hollister business continues to be very strong and our new store openings for the quarter are significantly exceeding plan in aggregate.
As I mentioned a moment ago we are also very pleased with our Paris flagship opening.
And while it is still early on we continue to expect its volume to be in the same range as the London and Milan flagships on a go-forward basis.
Turning to Japan.
Our business there remains challenged with Ginza comping negatively through the quarter.
We remain cautious on Japan while we work to identify and address the underlying issues.
Our Canadian business is also not where we would like it to be although it continues to operate at a healthy profit level and we believe the sales trend in Canada is more readily addressable.
Our direct-to-consumer business again posted strong growth of 28% for the quarter as we work toward our $1 billion goal.
This business remains a major strategic priority and source of investment.
As for Gilly Hicks we continue to work on our roadmap objectives and remain very excited about the long-term prospects for the brand.
Last we continue to focus very closely on expenses and challenge ourselves in each area of our business to find additional efficiencies in our model.
This is all the more important in an uncertain macroeconomic environment.
Overall we are pleased with our performance against our roadmap goals.
As we look to the back half of the year and into 2012 it is clear that we are entering a period of greater uncertainty.
As we have discussed in the past costing issues will certainly impact us more significantly in the back half of the year and the consumer response to price increases remains unclear.
In addition the global macroeconomic picture and possible exchange rate volatility add to this uncertainty especially given the increasing shares of our business represented by Europe.
However our strong top line momentum and overall performance for the past several quarters gives us confidence that we are well positioned to navigate through this environment.
And while external risks have increased we remain comfortable with our objectives for next year.
With that I'll turn the call over to Jonathan but we'll be happy to take your questions later in the call.
Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
As Mike said the story of the quarter was essentially that the strong top line performance mitigated the deleveraging issues we have faced coming into the quarter and enabled us to deliver meaningful growth and operating income and EPS.
Sales for the quarter increased 23% to $917 million.
Total Domestics sales including DTC were up 12%.
Total international sales were up 74%.
Within international Hollister Europe was particularly strong both the comp and non-comp stores.
Overall DTC sales including shipping and handling were up 28%.
As reflected on Page 6 of our presentation foreign currency changes accounted for approximately 160 basis points for the sales increase based on converting prior year sales at current year rates.
The impact of foreign currency changes on our results is likely to increase going forward as international operations account for a greater part of the mix.
Gross margin for the quarter was 63.6% down 150 basis points from last year putting our gross margin for the first half of the year up 40 basis points.
Gross margin dollars for the second quarter increased 20% versus last year.
Decrease in the gross profit rate was driven primarily by an increase in average unit cost partially offset by a higher AUR and an international mix benefit.
AUR was up mid-single-digit for the quarter with increases in both U.S.
and international AURs.
Across all brands men's and women's comps were similar.
Men's stronger performing categories were knit tops and fleece while graphic tees were weaker.
Women's stronger performing categories were woven shirts and sweaters while graphic tees were weaker.
Turning to operating expenses in Page 7 of the Investor Presentation stores and distribution expense for the quarter included store occupancy costs of $173.6 million in line with our guidance.
All other stores and distribution costs represented 27.5% of sales.
Due to the strong sales performance we saw less deleverage on this line than we had anticipated.
As a reminder these expenses also include $4 million of additional depreciation related to our DC consolidation.
MG&amp;A for the quarter increased 16% in line with our mid-teen guidance driven by increases in compensation including incentive and equity compensation marketing and other expenses net of favorable prior year legal settlements.
MG&amp;A for the quarter included equity and incentive comp of $18.4 million versus $11.7 million last year.
For the quarter and excluding the effect of prior year store closure costs we achieved approximately 300 basis points of expense leverage.
Overall operating income was up 71% for the quarter.
The tax rate for the quarter was 30.7% and benefited from a strong performance of international operations with a lower effective tax rate.
On a full year basis we now expect that the tax rate will be somewhat below 35% although this remains sensitive to mix shifts between domestic and international taxable income including the effect of currency movements.
Diluted EPS for the quarter was $0.35 $0.13 above last year which included the $0.02 loss last year from store closure charges.
Year-to-date EPS diluted is up $0.54 versus last year.
Turning to the balance sheet.
We ended the quarter with total inventory of cost up 7.5% versus year ago or up 3.5% excluding in-transit.
Coming into the back half of the year we believe we are appropriately positioned with fall and basic inventory although our spring carryover inventory is somewhat lighter than we would have liked reflecting the strong first half performance.
During the quarter we repurchased approximately 950 000 shares at an aggregate cost of $64.4 million bringing our total repurchases over the past 12 months to approximately 3 million shares at an average cost of approximately $56 per share.
We ended the quarter with approximately $540 million in cash and cash equivalents compared to $596 million in cash and equivalents at a comparable point last year.
This number reflects buybacks and dividends of approximately $225 million in the past 12 months and a paydown of $53 million in revolver debt.
In addition to which we have eliminated substantially all outstanding letters of credit.
Turning to the third quarter and back half of the year.
We continue to expect gross margin erosion.
However our visibility on the magnitude of this erosion is less clear than in the first half of the year due to the uncertainties Mike spoke to earlier.
Some more specific items on third quarter expenses is included on Page 11 of our Investor Presentation.
This expense guidance excludes the impact of any potential impairment charges resulting from our annual review of long-lived assets.
Store occupancy costs for the third quarter are expected to be in the low- to mid-$180 millions.
All other stores and distribution costs are expected to modestly delever compared to last year's rate of 24.8% including the effect of preopening costs DTC investments and additional depreciation due to the DC consolidation.
MG&amp;A for the third quarter is expected to increase by a low double-digit percentage with the primary components of the increase being equity compensation and marketing costs.
Going forward as we have spoken to in the past equity compensation charges may escalate significantly.
This is a function both of potential increases in the stock price but also of a shorter amortization period for future awards.
As a result of the approval of our amended long-term incentive plan we no longer anticipate that we will need to adopt liability accounting for equity-based awards.
Our plans for store openings for the year remain in line with prior guidance.
We now expect to close approximately 60 to 65 U.S.
stores during the fiscal year significantly all through natural lease expirations.
Based on current new store plans and other planned expenditures the company continues to expect the total capital expenditures for 2011 to be approximately $350 million.
This concludes our prepared comments section of the call.
We are now available to take your questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Lorraine Hutchinson with Bank of America.
I just wanted to follow up on the gross margin commentary.
I know that the visibility is pretty unclear at this point but if you could just provide us with any commentary on how initial price increases have gone? What the consumer acceptance has been? What types of cost increases you're seeing? Just any guidelines you could give us to help us try to model this line item.
Lorraine I don't think there's a whole lot of additional color we can really add.
I mean I think we've long said that we were talking about double-digit cost increases in the back half of the year and actually starting late in the second quarter.
As Mike said earlier the reaction to price increases which for us have not yet fully gone into effect remains unclear and it's certainly too early for us to add a lot of color to that.
So I'm not sure beyond what we've already said that there's really a whole lot of additional color we can provide at this point.
Clearly as we go through this quarter in particular we'll have a greater sense of that.
We'll go to our next question.
Christine Chen with Needham &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> I wanted to ask about the price increases.
I mean as I walked the stores I do feel like there have been at least a mix shift towards higher price point items particularly on the fashion side and maybe even on the denim side.
How are you thinking about those price increases is it across the board? Is it skewing the mix? And is it more in fashion versus basics? Christine I mean I think we've always said that it wasn't going to be uniform that it would be based on what we thought was appropriate category-by-category and item-by-item.
I'm not sure again there's a whole lot of color we can really add on that.
I think -- let me just pipe in.
There clearly is a mix of influence happening in our inventories because our inventories are shifting to a greater percentage fashion which is what you observed in the stores.
LLC</strong> And then for the fashion penetration I mean can you maybe shed some light on how much that's gone up? I had to ask.
Good question.
I think you see it in the stores.
And we'll go to our next question Randy Konik with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Just quick question.
I guess near term and long term.
I guess Mike first.
The comment in the press release about the strong top line momentum how should we be thinking that -- is that momentum continuing to the back-to-school period thus far? How should we be thinking about -- how are you thinking about the back-to-school season from your perspective? And then I guess Jonathan can you give us any type of updated commentary after the Analyst Meeting on that 475 number for next year? How are you feeling about that? Okay let me comment.
First question.
We've never given guidance on sales during a quarter and we're not going to now.
So I cannot and will not comment on August.
What I can tell you and I think this is the important point Randy is that our business has always been built and managed with a long-term orientation.
And that applies to protecting the quality of our merchandise and store experience.
It applies to our long-term relationships with our vendors many of whom have been with us for many years.
It applies to our people for whom we want to create long-term rewarding careers.
And it also applies to our stockholders where we are fortunate to have some long-term supportive stockholders who understand our strategy and what we are trying to accomplish.
And I'd like this to be my biggest message this morning.
Randy just covering the second part.
We remain comfortable with the 475 for next year.
The things that are under our control we feel good about.
We've been ahead of our objectives year-to-date.
So that's a positive factor and I think weighing in the opposite direction is clearly the macroeconomic uncertainty.
So net-net of those 2 things I think our outlook is essentially neutral to where it was when we published that number at the Investor Day back in April.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go next to Brian Tunick with JPMorgan.
So I guess question is on the gross margin side again.
Just trying to understand sort of your commentary on the back half.
Is the concern about more on the AUC side? And what do your lead times look like? When do we start to feel the benefit of what's happened to cotton? Or is it more on the competitive landscape particularly seeing where Hollister denim might be going out the door now versus some of your competitors? Brian let me go through some of the components of gross margin which I think illustrate why we're saying there's less visibility in the back half than in the -- than we had in the front half year.
First of all you've got the average unit costs at stake which we obviously know.
For this point for the back of the year and I'll come back to forward expectations on that in a second.
We've got price increases in the mix which we clearly said it's too early for us to say what the reaction to that is going to be.
We've got a possibility of slowing economy a potential double-dip recession which obviously could impact our business.
And again I think it's too early to say on that yet but clearly that has increased in terms of the likelihood over the last couple of months.
I think -- another big factor you have to also throw into the mix is we've got a very significant number of new stores opening internationally in the back half of the year far more so than in the first half of the year.
And the volumes we have attached to those stores could have a significant impact on where we end the year from a gross margin standpoint.
So there are a lot of different variables in the mix.
Currency on top of that is another one given increasing proportion of our business in the Eurozone in particular.
So I think just given all those variables unlike our feeling 6 months ago when we were pretty comfortable saying approximately flat gross margin for the spring season we're not comfortable being that specific in the back half of the year but we do certainly expect there to be erosion in the gross margin rate.
Going forward in terms of costing we'll have a relatively tough comparison in the first quarter of '12 because as you probably recall we got very good costing in the first quarter of '11.
We should start to see some year-over-year favorability with regard to cotton partway through the second quarter of next year.
Although I think it's also clear that the non-cotton components of costs are continuing to inflate particularly labor costs.
But the cotton based on where it stands today would start to turn more favorable for us on a year-over-year basis in the middle of the second quarter of next year.
And we'll take our next question from Dorothy Lakner with Caris &amp; Company.
Just wondered if you could provide a little bit more color on the Paris opening.
Obviously that was a pretty big one for you.
How that was perhaps different from the London opening or the Milan opening and what kinds of things you are learning about that? And then just a corollary to that what you're seeing in terms of foreign tourist business here in the U.S..
Okay let me talk a little bit about the Paris opening.
It was an opening that was very much like the London opening and the Milan opening.
We had lines and excited customers.
I think what we're learning about the flagships is that we have a chain in the flagships.
We're running a chain of flagships.
So we opened each of those stores exactly the same way and it's interesting that we're getting the same response.
And it leads to the point that we operate our stores the same wherever they are in the world so from a customer's perspective we are one experience.
And that's being born out in the flagships.
So exciting opening exciting business continuing and we look forward to more in the future.
Foreign tourist business I think in the U.S.
I guess I can comment on last quarter it continues to be good.
Our next question comes from Janet Kloppenburg with JJK Research.
Mike I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about your level of happiness with the new denim introduction.
I thought it was really well done and I love a lot of the new fits and washes.
I wondered if you could talk a little bit about how important that is to your business going forward.
I was also wondering if you could talk a little bit about what -- how you view the discounting environment in the U.S.
and if you think it's something that we're just going to have to get used to or if you see some evolution unfolding where you may be able to be less promotional.
And Jonathan just for you and your outlook for fiscal '12 on the -- my question is when you think about the 475 have you thought at all about the FX benefit you've been incurring and what might happen? Is there any assumption there for softening of the euro I think is my most direct question? Okay first Janet denim I think that the new denim fits and washes are very important to us.
I think this organization did a really good job in reengineering our denim.
And I think it's interesting that we're getting real credit for that.
Promotional outlook I don't have a crystal ball.
I really don't.
We will see what happens in the U.S.
Clearly it's a U.S.
issue for us not an issue in the rest of the world.
We are very optimistic about our offerings and we would hope that over time the U.S.
could become less promotional that's our intention.
Let's see what happens.
Janet on the second part of the question.
We certainly do look at the sensitivities of all the critical components of getting to our 475 and FX is definitely one of the more sensitive components of that.
Relative to when we put that objective out there the euro has strengthened -- or certainly it had with regard to our second quarter results.
So we haven't specifically factored in a cushion for that but we look at the potential sensitivity of exchange rates relative to the other sensitivities in the model around domestic same-store sales around international store openings.
And then we weigh reasonable outcomes or reasonably likely outcomes in each of those components.
And based on all that we continue to think at this point the 475 is realistic.
I think it is.
Having said that clearly when we put that objective out there we weren't modeling in a double-dip recession in the U.S.
or a major decline in the euro.
But absent either of those things happening we remain comfortable with that objective.
Janet one more point about the denim.
I think it's clear that everyone should understand that our back-to-school strategy was to get our new fits on as many new customers or old customers as possible.
Our next question comes from Stacy Pak with Barclays Capital.
This is Ed actually standing in for Stacy.
I just had a quick 2 questions.
One is I know you don't want to comment on August month to date but we just wanted to know how are the trends looking? And the second question is could you comment on whether you still intend to increase prices in September? And what comps for the business looks like when you remove the promotional spend in the U.S.? Yes I think we already said that we're not going to – we've never commented on intra-quarter intra-month sales.
And would you pass the message to Stacy nice try.
So I know that we could see.
So I think with regard to prices I think we've already covered that.
And then the question on what would comps look like without promo in U.S.
I don't think we would even know how to go about quantifying what that would be.
Our next question comes from Jeff Klinefelter with Piper Jaffray.
So just a couple quick questions.
In terms of the Hollister openings for the back half you've got many of those scheduled now to hit in the next 2 quarters.
Jonathan could you give a little bit more color on how you expect those to hit between Q3 and Q4? And are they continuing to track at a certain multiple of the average U.S.
volume or U.S.
productivity? And I think just to clarify haven't you guys been giving sort of a general comp outlook for the total enterprise on kind of either quarterly or second-half basis I'm not sure if I missed that regarding your Q3 expense guidance? Jeff I guess with regard to the Hollister openings in the back of the year they are roughly even between the third and fourth quarter in broad terms.
In terms of the productivity of the stores we have opened as Mike said earlier the stores we opened during the quarter in aggregate exceeded plan.
Hollister Europe business remains very strong both comp and non-comp.
They're really -- it's really pretty consistently good across the board for Hollister in Europe.
So we're hopeful that those stores we're going to open in the back half of the year will sustain the trend.
And we don't see any reason why that wouldn't be the case.
The second part of the question was -- what was it Jeff? Oh yes well I think with regard to the comp outlook.
We've spoken going back to the Investor Day in April Jeff about what we were targeting.
And that would be clearly what we've come to share today.
It is consistent or better than that.
And to be on track with our objectives we're looking to sustain meaningful improvements in comp store sales going forward.
I think at this point for all the reasons we've alluded to we're not going to be more specific than that.
But relative to our objective both for this quarter and beyond we're certainly targeting sustaining those improvements that we've seen.
Our next question comes from Michelle Tan with Goldman Sachs.
So we know you guys had a great July and start to back-to-school.
I'm just curious to clarify with all the commentary on uncertainty that's come up in the macro environment over the last 3 months.
Are you guys are really talking about being concerned about things that can have a future impact on your business that you're seeing externally? Or is there some sign of increased uncertainty as you look at whether it's day-to-day volatility in the business or whatever that you see in your trends today? Was that a question about August sales? Volatility not absolute number.
Well I think we're not doing anything different than anybody else which is when there is a significant -- a greater degree of uncertainty out there you naturally kind of think about what impact that could have and you want to be prepared if that becomes more significant.
But I don't think we're seeing anything more than that at this point Michelle.
Our next question comes from Kimberly Greenberger with Morgan Stanley.
I guess I won't ask about August.
I was actually curious about inventory.
I was impressed in the first quarter you were able to drive such strong revenue growth with much slower growth in inventory and I have to imagine what the increase in your cost that your unit inventories are even well below the 7.5% increase in dollars.
So Mike I'm wondering if you can just talk about how you're feeling about inventory the way they're positioned in the back half.
And do you feel like you've got the inventory you need to do the volume you'd like to do? I will let Jonathan answer that question.
I think the answer is yes but I'll let him talk about it a little.
Kimberly yes I think as we said we feel we're appropriately positioned with fall and basic inventory.
We were a lighter in spring carryover than we would ideally have been just because of the strong first half performance in the year.
But we're comfortable with where we are for fall and basic inventory.
I think a caveat is also that the quarter end is a point in time so it's difficult to read too much into that.
But overall we're comfortable.
Our next question is Marni Shapiro with The Retail Tracker.
I'm taking 7 girls to the mall later you might want to watch your comps in the tri-state area.
I have a quick marketing question.
You talked a little bit about marketing in your opening comments.
Are you changing something on the marketing side or is it increased to support some of your international flagship openings? Any kind of color around that will be great.
Marni I guess it's not really oriented to international.
I mean we typically have a steady low-key approach to international openings.
So it's more -- we talked in the past about some of the things we're doing in social media and interactive marketing.
I think you will probably recall the presentation at the Investor Day on that.
So it's all those types of things that we're talking about where we are making progress but we still think there's plenty more we can do to help drive the business going forward.
Our next question comes from Paul Lejuez with Nomura Securities.
Just a follow-up on Kimberly's question.
What should we expect from you guys in terms of inventory at the end of the third quarter? I'm also wondering why the current inventory position wouldn't be somewhat of a tailwind to your gross margins how we should think about that? And then just a little bit more long term in nature wondering about Gilly Hicks international opportunity.
Is that something that can be a 2012 story or you're still uncertain about the international opportunity there? I guess on the first one on inventory Paul we would expect it to be a greater increase at the end of the third and fourth quarters but a significant piece of that is all the international store openings that we have coming into play for which we obviously have to buy inventory to support that.
I think we can't really add much more color in terms of the gross margin than we've already said and I think there are a lot of uncertainties to that.
With regard to Gilly we have a very specific roadmap on Gilly.
We're making good progress against that.
I think at this point we're not ready to give specifics on when we would start increasing the store count in a more significant way.
Our next question comes from Erika Maschmeyer with Robert W.
Baird.
Could you talk a little bit more about your ability to chase into products in the fall winter and the actions that you're taking to chase to a greater degree than you had been? And then just a quick follow-up on the increase in your number of store closures.
I guess kind of what were the factors around that? And are you still -- are the stores that you're closing still on average about $1 million of volume and kind of breaking even? Let me respond to the first part of the question.
This organization is very good at chasing product.
It has always been.
I don't think we have chased enough in the past.
We have a concerted effort now to do more chasing.
We're reserving more dollars for what we're calling chase and it's working out very well.
With regard to store closures obviously it's a fairly modest increase from where we've previously been and it just reflects our continual -- or continued sifting through all those lease expirations at the end of this year.
It skews heavily towards A&amp;F and kids.
Again in terms of volume that $1 million average store volume for those stores is probably still a reasonable estimate.
We'll move to our next question Evren Kopelman with Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> In the second quarter the 150 basis points in gross margin can you quantify the basis points of benefit from the international mix and if you think that would be higher in the back half at all? And also if you expect more gross margin pressure in the third quarter compared to the fourth because the pricing doesn't really start as much in August? Evren we haven't broken out that gross margin effect from international versus domestic.
I mean certainly one of the things that we're looking at as we've spoken to in the past how we give metrics that enabled people to model the different components of the business but to this point we have not done that.
I don't think we can break out Q3 and Q4 at this point.
Our outlook was for the season.
As you know things at the markdown reserve at end of the quarter within the season can have an effect on the gross margin rate for the 2 quarters within the season.
With regard to whether the international effect is going to be higher in the back half of the year it should be because obviously we have more stores opening in the back half of the year but I don't think I can give you any more specifics on that.
Our next question comes from Jennifer Black with Jennifer Black &amp; Associates.
This is Carla White I'm standing in for Jennifer Black.
I just wanted to talk about your new denim launch.
It appears to us that you are taking a huge market share and that the denim launch was very successful.
Can you talk about any planned promotions on denim that you'd have for the balance of the year? And then also can you talk to how your yoga line is doing? And could we expect to see any line extensions off of that? We can't comment on what we're going to be doing promotionally.
I can't even comment on the denim promotion.
I cannot tell you that it's successful or not.
We'll see when the quarter is over.
Yoga I can't comment on that either.
I'm sorry Carla but thank you for the questions.
Our next question comes from Jeff Black with Citi.
So Mike you opened with comments on Europe that the business in aggregate is doing good which would imply some better some worse.
What's really happening across the region? I mean are there real differences in Italy London Germany that you can glean? And in terms of Hollister and what you've opened there any learnings on what works better or what doesn't work as well? I think the answer is that Hollister is working every place that we've opened it.
And we do not have an unsuccessful store.
I believe we said in aggregate across Europe it's beating plan.
But I don't -- I'm trying to think of a store that's under plan but I don't want to be held to that.
They are all very successful.
And I think the point of Hollister is that we think it is a brand that operates well in a mall environment in many countries.
That's what's being proven.
We know that in Europe.
We don't know that in Asia that's why opening in Hong Kong is going to be interesting for us and China.
Our next question comes from Eric Beder with Brean Murray.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC</strong> Let's talk a little bit longer term with international.
You're at almost 25% of your sales are international where do you see that going in the next 2 to 3 years in terms of percentages? And could you talk a little bit about the U.S.
tourist-driven stores? How is their performance different from the rest of the U.S.
stores? Eric on the first one we said at the Investor Day back in April that we foresaw that international will be roughly half of the business in 2015 based on the plans we talked about for Hollister and A&amp;F international openings.
With regard to the U.S.
tourist stores I think Mike said earlier that they continue to perform well.
We don't specifically break that out relative to the other U.S.
stores but they have continued to do well.
Our next question comes from John Morris with Bank of Montréal.
Most of the questions have been asked but I think regarding the Canadian comments I think you said Canada was a little bit weaker.
What do you think that is from where you stand now? And I think you said that you had plans to address it so if you can share some of those thoughts and just let us know what the mix of business for Canada is now.
Do you want to take that? Well John I think we're digging into Canada.
We're not going to be too public about kind of what we think is going on.
The exchange rate has probably had some impact in terms of making the differential between the AUR in Canada and the U.S.
look greater and that's probably part of it.
As we said our margins in Canada remain pretty strong so it's not a profitability issue but the top line has been under some pressure in Canada.
And I don't think we want to go into detail about what we're doing to address it but we think we have a clear path to getting that fixed.
Next question comes from Omar Saad with ISI Group.
I wanted to follow up on Japan if you could talk about the negative comps you continue to see there.
What you think is going on in that marketplace? And does it color your view on Asia and how the brand should be positioned in other parts of Asia? Or do you really feel that Japan has a unique situation? And any macro versus company-specific issues in Japan too? First answer is that we don't believe Japan represents Asia.
We will find that out because we'll be in other Asian countries very soon.
We think it is a Japanese situation.
We think clearly there are macroeconomic issues and an aging population and a young population that is very infatuated with fast fashion today.
We understand that.
We cannot run a business in Japan that's appreciably different from the rest of the world nor will we.
But we're looking at the situation in Japan just as hard as we possibly can.
But I think the real answer is not to believe that Japan equals Asia.
We don't.
Our next question comes from John Kernan with Cowen and Company.
LLC</strong> Quickly on the CapEx guidance what drove it to the high end of your previous range to $350 million from $300 million $350 million you've seen higher store build-out costs or what changed the thinking there? I think we were at $350 million on the last earnings call John was our guidance.
We had started the year lower you're right.
FX was part of the increase and then I think just firming up some of the store plans was the other piece of it some additional IT investments.
It was a few different pieces rather than one major piece.
But FX was certainly a meaningful piece of it relative to the original figure we gave.
Is no one going to ask about "The Situation"? Our next question comes from Pamela Quintiliano with Oppenheimer.
Well I am going to ask about the [indiscernible] exactly.
I'm not going to ask about "The Situation".
I'm not going to ask about August but I'm just trying to figure out you made a comment about a little bit more heightened concerns about a double-dip recession over the past few months.
So clearly you guys have been the leader early aggressive about getting out there with then promotions and I think stealing market share from other guys.
But have you been able to adjust your orders and promotions reflecting that heightened concern regarding a double-dip? And when you think about the customer -- the core customer in each of your divisions domestically do you think they respond to the promotions in the same way currently or are they sensitive to the Hollister versus Abercrombie? I really don't want to talk about the promotions in the business.
Jonathan? Are you sure you don't want to ask about "The Situation"? If I get a second question we'll talk about "The Situation".
I'll let Jonathan comment.
I mean honestly what we're seeing I think about the economy isn't any different to anybody else.
It's something that everyone is obviously more mindful of today than they were in the past.
I don't think we can really speak to any specific things we're doing differently.
And frankly as we said earlier we certainly are monitoring the situation but we remain focused on the long-term execution of our strategy and for all the reasons Mike described earlier we feel we're well positioned to accomplish that.
Our next question comes from Adrienne Tennant with Janney Capital Markets.
Mike would you please tell us the back story on the whole situation that would be my first situation question because I am really curious.
And then my second one really is for Jonathan.
Cotton obviously is coming down and I'm not going to ask you about kind of comp increases but at the current level of $1 $1.03 at what point would we start to see beneficial tailwind in the financial side plus 9 months assuming that it crosses sometime in November? So would that put us in the back half mid to back half of 2012 theoretically? Okay I think I can respond to the first part of your question.
And this is how it started.
Last Friday morning I was with a group of people here and someone came up and said "Mike I have terrible terrible news for you.
Last night on Jersey Shore "The Situation" had an A&amp;F product on." So we all said "Oh that's terrible.
What are we going to do about it?" And the group kind of came up with the solution: let's pay them not to wear our product.
That's how it happened.
That's where we are and we're having a lot of fun with it.
Second part of the question? Yes Adrienne on the cotton I think we spoke to that earlier we would see cotton specifically if things stay kind of where they are today becoming a tailwind in the sort of middle part of the second quarter of next year again we've got some very favorable costing in the first – while not very favorable -- we have favorable costing in the first quarter of this year before the cotton increases had really taken effect at least for us.
And then it started coming much more significantly in the second quarter and through the back half of the year.
So if everything stays the same today then we would expect that to become a tailwind in the middle of the second quarter of next year.
But as I said earlier there are still other inflationary pressures which aren't fading or turning most notably labor costs.
We we'll go to our next question from Linda Tsai with ITG Investment Research.
In the press release you mentioned a higher AUR on international mix benefit was the AUR positive for all the brands? And then you also mentioned graphic tees being a little bit weaker across the brand was this an issue of units or [indiscernible]? We can barely hear you.
I was saying in your press release you mentioned a higher AUR in international mix benefit with the AUR positive across the brands and then you also mentioned graphic tees being a little bit weaker was that an issue of units or competitive efforts? On the AUR Linda what we said was that our AURs were up both domestically and internationally.
And then internationally that's obviously on a constant currency basis.
So overall we were up mid-single-digit for AUR.
We don't break that out by brand and there's not really anything additional I can tell you on that piece.
I think your question about the graphic tees is a good one.
We planned decreases in graphic tees because we're consciously trying to push more fashion in the business and less reliance on logo.
And that's one of the thrilling things that's happening in the business it's working.
And we'll go to our next question Robin Murchison with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.</strong> I wanted to ask about your -- directionally and I know it's very early but directionally about CapEx for the out-year.
Presumably haven't you kind of come through a lot of the larger flagship Abercrombie stores and so the forward stores might be somewhat smaller a little less costlier any cash flow info would help.
Yes Robin.
If you look in terms of total count we'd spoken in the Investor Day to the fact that our rate of Hollister openings we would be looking to accelerate that further beyond the 2011 level.
And then the level of flagship openings we were targeting for '12 would be higher than '11.
So I think taking on those 2 factors they would drive CapEx up beyond the 2011 level.
Other CapEx not related to stores would probably be less significant in terms of the year-over-year change.
And to your point though it is still very early in the process for 2012 CapEx and we'll certainly be giving more detail and color on that at the end of the year.
Our next question comes from Barbara Wyckoff with CLSA.
Two questions.
Are there going to be -- of the 34 Hollister stores that opening this fall are any of those in Asia outside of Festival Walk that's number one? And then number two Mike looking back if you could do over second quarter could you -- what could you have done better? I know it was a great quarter but flow inventory classification just sort of thinking about how it played out.
Barbara just on the first one yes we do have other Hollister store openings in Mainland China which we spoke to earlier on which are part of the count that we have close to 40 for the year.
How many? We haven't given that number but it's a couple.
Our next question comes from David Weiner with Deutsche Bank.
Two quick questions.
So number one on international mall rents just curious we've heard that sequentially over the last couple quarters the rents are starting to come -- are starting to tick up after being down for a while.
If you could just kind of talk about relative to your 475 plan if kind of what you're seeing in the mall rent trends into next year is it internationally is kind of in line with what you thought? That was really my only question.
David I guess with regard to rent it all comes back to how we look at each of these deals internationally.
And ultimately all comes back to that target fall margin of 30% for Hollister and typically a little bit higher for A&amp;F that we're shooting for.
So if you look at the overall economics of the deal the CapEx we have to spend to build the store the rent -- and if we feel we can get that acceptable overall return then we typically go forward with the store.
I can't really speak to what's happening with individual rents but we're obviously looking out at each deal on a deal-by-deal basis and making sure it meets our criteria.
I would have to add that with our success in Europe we're a very much in-demand tenant.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's question-and-answer session and concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Thank you.
Good day and welcome to the Abercrombie &amp; Fitch Third Quarter Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Eric Cerny.
Mr.
Cerny please go ahead sir.
Good morning and welcome to our third quarter earnings call.
Earlier today we released our third quarter sales and earnings income statement balance sheet store opening and closing summary and an updated financial history.
Please feel free to reference these materials available on our website.
Also available on our website is an investor presentation which we will be referring to in comments during this call.
This call is being recorded and the replay may be accessed through the Internet at abercrombie.com under the Investors section.
Before we begin I remind you that any forward-looking statements we may make today are subject to the Safe Harbor statement found in our SEC filings.
Today's earnings call will be limited to one hour.
Joining me today on the call are Mike Jeffries and Jonathan Ramsden.
We will begin the call with a few brief remarks from Mike followed by a review of the financial performance for the quarter from Jonathan.
After our prepared comments we will be available to take your questions for as long as time permits.
I'll turn the call over to Mike.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
I ended my comments on our last earnings call by saying that there were greater challenges and uncertainty in the back half of the year but that we remain confident in our strategy and in the underlying strengths of our brands.
Clearly our results for the third quarter were impacted by some of those challenges.
Equally however our confidence in our long-term strategy and the strength of our brands and in our ability to create long-term shareholder value in particular through our international expansion is unchanged.
So I would like to start this call by being very clear on 2 points: First that our strategy is unchanged; second that our financial objectives are unchanged.
As you know our strategic objective is to leverage the international appeal of our iconic brands to build a highly profitable sustainable global business.
This means continuing to open highly profitable stores in Europe and beyond that in Asia and other new markets.
In the U.S.
it means driving productivity back toward peak levels while closing underperforming and nonbrand-right stores.
In direct-to-consumer it means investing to drive greater penetration particularly internationally in this very profitable channel.
With that I would like to make some specific comments on our performance during the quarter.
First our European business.
While slowly -- while slowing somewhat during the quarter it is very robust and healthy by any objective measure.
If anyone doubts that I strongly encourage you to visit London Milan or Paris to see firsthand what is happening in our flagship stores there or to visit our recently opened stores in Dublin Paris at the Wijnegem Shopping Center in Antwerp or at the Gallerian mall in Stockholm.
In each of which we are annualizing at over $10 million.
Our London flagship remains highly profitable second only to A&amp;F Fifth Avenue in overall profit contribution but with a higher four-wall margin.
The Milan and Paris flagships are not far behind.
And just 2 weeks ago we had another very successful flagship opening in Madrid.
Just 3 years after we opened our first Hollister store in Europe we now have 50 stores annualizing at well over $0.5 billion.
In the U.K.
our most mature European market for Hollister four-wall margins were very strong while we continue to comp positively and opened 5 new stores during the quarter.
We are proud of what we have accomplished in just a few short years in Europe but more important we are excited about the opportunity ahead of us.
We are not immune to the macroeconomic environment so we demand high profitability levels from our new stores based on conservative assumptions and this underpins our belief in the long-term sustainability of our brands.
If anyone is inclined to believe that a softening of our business in Europe this quarter in the face of severe macroeconomic headwinds is a major issue for our model frankly I think they are missing the forest for the trees.
In Asia we are very pleased with our first Hollister store opening in Hong Kong which is also tracking to be over a $10 million store.
We remain excited about our first openings in mainland China during this quarter.
Turning to the U.S.
our tourist stores also remain robust with Florida particularly strong.
Within the U.S.
promotional chain stores we have chosen to keep our focus on driving productivity and we were effective in doing that during the quarter.
To do this we chose to keep our AURs down in these stores which combined with double-digit AUC increases put significant pressure on our gross margins in excess of the expense leverage we achieved.
We expect that pressure to reverse in the next few quarters with trends on both AUR and AUC improving and with the benefit of additional store closures.
Turning to DTC.
Our strong overall growth was driven mainly by the U.S.
Looking to 2012 we are highly focused on driving faster growth in our international business.
As part of this we have recently initiated fulfillment of European DTC sales from our third-party distribution center in the Netherlands.
We continue to expect that we will drive strong profitability growth from each of these channels and improve our operating margins by growing our home office and other central expenses at rates well below the overall rate of sales growth.
In conclusion I would like to reaffirm that our strategy is very much on track.
We have always said that we are not immune to the macroeconomic environment but we are very confident that the quality commitment to standards and pursuit of excellence on which our business is based stand us in very good stead to weather external impacts to our business.
I'll now turn it over to Jonathan but we'll be happy to take your questions later.
Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
As Mike noted a moment ago we struck a note of caution on our Q2 earnings call with regard to macroeconomic and currency uncertainty which allied with the effect of pricing changes gave us less visibility than in prior quarters.
As the quarter progressed and particularly from early September onwards it became clear that some of these factors were affecting our business.
Our EPS for the quarter was up only slightly from last year with a reduced contribution from our U.S.
chain business offset by less of a tailwind than we had anticipated from our European business.
However our year-to-date EPS is up 86% excluding discontinued operations and approximately in line with our original budget.
In addition as Mike indicated there is no change to our $4.75 EPS objective for next year.
Coming back to the third quarter sales for the quarter increased 21% to $1.076 billion; U.S.
sales including DTC were up 14%; international sales were up 56%.
Overall DTC sales including shipping and handling were up 41%.
Comp store sales increased 7% across all brands.
Men's and women's comps were similar.
Foreign currency changes accounted for approximately 55 basis points of the sales increase based on converting prior year sales at current year rates.
Relative to our initial budget for the quarter FX affected sales negatively by around $6 million.
Our gross margin rate for the quarter was 60.1% down 360 basis points from last year.
This reflected significant erosion in our U.S.
chain store gross margins as we chose to keep AURs down at the same time that AUC was up significantly.
Overall AUR was approximately flat for the quarter.
Turning to operating expenses.
Stores and distribution expense for the quarter included store occupancy costs of $178 million lower than our guidance driven by changes in possession dates and foreign currency.
All other stores and distribution costs represented 26.4% of sales and delevered somewhat more than expected due to lower sales.
As a reminder stores and distribution expense for the quarter included approximately $4 million of accelerated depreciation from our DC consolidation.
MG&amp;A expense for the quarter increased 5% better than our double-digit growth guidance primarily due to lower incentive and equity compensation.
MG&amp;A for the quarter include total equity incentive comp of $14.1 million versus $15.6 million last year.
For the quarter we achieved approximately 220 basis points of expense leverage.
Overall operating income was flat for the quarter with profit growth from international stores and DTC offset by lower profits in our U.S.
chain stores and higher MG&amp;A and other non-four-wall costs.
The tax rate for the quarter was 35.8%.
On a full year basis we expect the rate to be around 35% or slightly below although it remains sensitive to the U.S.
international mix.
Diluted EPS for the quarter was $0.57.
Turning to the balance sheet.
We ended the quarter with total inventory of costs up 33% versus a year ago or up 26% excluding in-transit.
We expect inventory to be up by a greater percentage at year end and this includes the effect of fourth quarter new store openings.
During the quarter we repurchased approximately 150 000 shares at an aggregate cost of $8.8 million.
We ended the quarter with $488 million in cash and equivalents compared to $593 million in cash and equivalents at the comparable point last year.
This number reflects buybacks and dividends of approximately $207 million in the past 12 months and the paydown of $57 million in revolver debt.
In addition to which we have eliminated substantially all outstanding letters of credit.
While we took a more conservative approach on buybacks this quarter the general parameters we have discussed in the past continue to apply going forward.
To add some color on our operating performance for the quarter our international stores have overall four-wall margins of greater than 30%.
Both our margins and return on investment in Europe remained very strong.
A&amp;F international flagships comped negatively but significant AUR increases protected the gross margin rates in these stores.
Japan and Canada both had declines in operating income as a result of negative same-store sales with Japan down significantly.
Turning to expectations for the fourth quarter we expect gross margin rate erosion similar to that in Q3.
Some more specific guidance on fourth quarter expense projections is included in our investor presentation.
This expense guidance excludes the impact of any potential impairment charges resulting from our annual review of long-lived assets and other potential charges associated with additional store closures or other underperforming real estate.
Store occupancy costs for the fourth quarter are expected to be in the mid-$180 million.
All other stores and distribution costs are expected to be approximately flat as a percentage of sales to last year.
MG&amp;A expense for the fourth quarter is expected to be approximately flat to last year.
Our plans for store openings in the year remain in line with prior guidance.
We expect to close approximately 55 to 60 U.S.
stores during fiscal year through natural lease expirations but the overall number of closures may increase as a result of buyouts or other early closures.
We continue to expect total capital expenditures for 2011 to be approximately $350 million.
Turning to 2012 our roadmap to the $4.75 in EPS includes a similar or somewhat greater number of Hollister openings as compared to 2011 which is a rate we expect to maintain in subsequent years.
With regard to flagships we are announcing today that we are adding Amsterdam and Munich to the list of confirmed 2012 openings.
These openings are in addition to the previously announced Hamburg and Hong Kong A&amp;F openings.
We expect to confirm additional openings on our February earnings call.
We will provide more detail on the components of our $4.75 objective for 2012 on our February earnings call.
However the key components of the store opening plans referenced a moment ago the goals for U.S.
store productivity we have discussed in the past including modest AUR increases for 2012 and sourcing cost assumptions based on our current visibility into 2012.
We are not modeling in any closures beyond the national closures I talked about a moment ago although we are hopeful that we will derive some benefit from additional closures.
This concludes our prepared comments section of the call.
We are now available to take your questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Jeff Klinefelter with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> My question I guess Mike would be -- or Mike and Jonathan would be around Europe and maybe providing a little bit more of your thoughts on the trends by different region by the concept between flagships and Hollisters.
I mean I think that probably the #1 question about this $4.75 target in addition to the inputs you already described Jonathan would be what sort of assumptions about Europe would be included in that and help us understand kind of the puts and takes and what kind of flexibility you have to navigate toward that number if Europe doesn't trend the direction that we all hope it does? Sure Jeff.
I think that's a great question.
I think first of all I think it was very clear from Mike's comments and also from mine that our Hollister Europe business is in extremely good shape.
We grew the top line while we were adding new stores.
At least one of which the new Stratford mall in London probably cannibalized a little bit from the other London stores since it's a new model.
But we opened 19 Hollister stores during the quarter.
Five of them opened right in the last week of the quarter so it's frankly too early for us to talk about those.
But of the other 14 12 of them are running ahead of the projections and those projections are tied to that 30% four-wall margin that we've talked about.
For all of the 40 stores we expect to open this year we expect them to average around $10 million in annualized volume based on the current run rate of those stores which is after that step-down that we've seen in the last couple of months in terms of the deteriorating trend in Europe.
So we feel extremely good about the Hollister business in Europe.
As one of our board members said earlier this week it's practically gravity defying when you look at all the other news that's coming out of Europe now that we're continuing to actually grow the productivity of those stores.
And Mike talked about Dublin where we opened a store that it was doing unbelievably well in an environment that's obviously particularly difficult in Ireland but we're seeing that elsewhere as well.
I think if you look at the mix of stores that opened this quarter some of them -- a couple of them were in Canada a couple of them were in the eastern part of Germany where the productivity of those store is somewhat lower than we would see in the west of Germany.
We had a couple in Spain.
So the average productivity of the stores we happened to open this quarter is probably lower than the average productivity we've talked about over time.
But if you look at where we are today with the 50 stores we have opened we're saying they're running at over $0.5 billion and averaging over $10 million.
And as you recall we've said in the past that to get to our overall goal for Hollister of $1.5 billion by 2015 those stores only need to average a little over $8 million.
So we're running well ahead of that today and frankly more ahead of that than we would have thought 6 months ago even though we did see a softening in the last couple of months.
So Hollister is in phenomenal shape.
The A&amp;F flagships did step down too and they've been moved into negative territory.
Again I think you've got to put that in an historical context.
Those stores did phenomenally well for several years.
We've always said it wouldn't be surprising given how well many of these stores have opened that we would go through a period when there would be some negative comps.
Clearly the macroenvironment is very difficult in Europe.
Tourism has slowed down.
We've certainly seen a slowing of traffic into those flagship stores which is indicative of a macro issue.
We're continuing to dig into other potential components of that.
But again to reiterate the absolute profitability of those stores is extremely high.
Our model has always been to say we're going to go out and open profitable stores based on conservative assumptions.
And even if we comp negatively we still have a very deep profitable model and we're not going to get oversaturated but we're going to keep moving on to new markets to drive the top line and to keep sustaining that high four-wall growth.
So that was kind of a long-winded answer to your question but I think we've covered a lot of important points.
Research Division</strong> So Jonathan are you suggesting that at this point the run rate of Europe and the U.K.
could essentially continue as it is into next year and that that would be incorporated into your $4.75 target? Well we have a run rate for the stores that are opened today which is reflective of the current state of the business and trend of the business.
For the new stores that are opening we tend as Michael alluded to earlier to put somewhat conservative projections on them -- well projections we assume are conservative.
So if we look at those new stores relative to the new -- to the stores we have opened and the volumes we have assigned to them those volumes if anything conservative relative to the volumes of the stores we have opened today in terms of what they're actually delivering in terms of productivity.
And next we'll go to Randy Konik with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Quick question.
Did you say -- I just want to clarify did you say that you think the AURs will start going up in the future quarters? Is that starting in the fourth quarter? And is that a total company comment or -- and can we give it a little clarity would that also be at both brands Abercrombie and Hollister? And then if the AURs are going up is that a reflection of any pricing strategy changes or just being less promotional? Let me kick that off.
I think we have to say that central to this conversation is that we think we drove the AURs too low in U.S.
promotional stores during the third quarter.
We think we left dollars on the table.
This goes into our thinking about getting AUR increases go forward.
Jonathan can comment about when but we're very convinced that we were going to be able to see AUR increases.
Randy the comment on AUR was specific our U.S.
chain business where to get to those productivity goals we've talked about in the past we're saying embedded in that for 2012 is the assumption of a modest increase in AUR in those chain stores.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So that'd be a function of both Abercrombie and Hollister you expect a less promotional posture at both businesses? That's correct.
And next we'll go to Stacy Pak with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> So a couple questions.
I guess first of all just on the AUC visibility.
Could you comment on when you see it coming down and how much? And then I guess more fundamentally circling back to the flagships help me understand if the brand is so strong internationally and I totally get the macro why did 15% price hikes lead to negative comps in those 2 beautiful flagships? Is it how they opened so strong and maybe want to compare it to New York and you don't comp forever? Or how do we sort of think about that? And how do we not come to the conclusion that those stores continue to comp negatively and the story isn't what we thought? Let me start with the second part of that conversation because I think the conversation that the 15% price increases caused the decrease I don't know if that's true.
I don't really believe that's true.
I believe what's happened to the flagships are totally a function of the macroeconomic situation.
Tourism down; we see it on a day-to-day basis in those stores.
Those stores are terrific.
They're popular and we're -- continue to be and you can see that Stacy.
So I can't predict where this is going to go because I can't predict the macroeconomic environment but those stores are very vulnerable to what's going on in macroeconomy tourism.
To address the first part of your question we say that the AUCs will be coming down the second half of the year.
That will start in second quarter.
I can't tell you what level that will be.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is there any way to quantify -- I don't know if you want to tell us what those flags are comping or the level of reduction or anything along those lines to help sort of help our -- get our arms around it? Stacy we've never gone into a specific store level detail on that.
I mean I think the important point is that the profitability of all those stores is very strong.
All 3 doing four-wall margins are greater than 40% or 40% or greater.
And that's really the key that we -- we're going to protect the profitability of those stores.
But we haven't spoken to individual stores in terms of comps in the past.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And last thing you are going to take prices down there in Q1 as well in the flags? We are looking at the prices on an item-by-item basis.
I would say they will come down I can't tell you how significant that's going to be.
Stacy if I could just add one comment on the AUC thing.
I think one thing's evolved over the last few months is that we now have better visibility on the back half of the year.
And at one point we certainly didn't have visibility that we were going to be down as Mike said from mid-second quarter onwards and we have that visibility today based on where we are in the cycle of planning for 2012.
Research Division</strong> Do you think it's down mid-singles Jonathan? I guess like I said we can't comment on the specifics.
Good try.
And next we have Evren Kopelman with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about the inventory it's such a big swing from end of Q2 to Q3 from up 7 to up 33 and you're talking about higher at the end of Q4.
Is -- so the question is is that -- are inventories higher than you would like at this point? And does that have anything to do with your level of promotional cadence in the U.S.
in third quarter? You said maybe you drove AUR down a little too much in Q3.
If you can share the thinking behind kind of why maybe you did that what was the thinking and if that had anything to do with the inventory and why inventories swung so much? Well one thing to -- one thing to remind you of is that on the last earnings call we said that we were lower in spring carryover inventory than we would have liked to have been so that number was a little bit artificially low at the end of the second quarter and lower than we would have liked.
If you look at where we are the end of the third quarter it's pretty close to the trend of sales particularly when you take into account the stores that have opened later in the quarter and we have a lot more openings in the fourth quarter including some big flagships.
So I think overall we're pretty comfortable with where we are in inventory.
And next we have Janet Kloppenburg with JJK Research.
Mike a couple of questions about the flagships.
I know that you said that you don't think pricing is the issue.
I'm wondering if you think the mix of product was an issue.
Perhaps there was a skew to some of the higher-priced cashmeres and outerwear and if there's any changes to that mix as we go into the fourth quarter.
And also on the flagships is there anything you're contemplating with regards to Japan and Canada that you could do to offset some of the declines you're witnessing there? And Jonathan if you can give us an idea about how we should be thinking about inventory on a comp store basis that would help a lot.
In other words you're opening a lot of stores here in Q4.
You opened a lot at the end of Q3.
So I'd like some delineation to give us a better handle on that.
Janet the AUR increase in the flagships it is a complex issue because mix is involved.
We're studying this very hard.
Clearly in our whole business we mix to fourth quarter to more outerwear because we're heavily invested in outerwear.
We're heavily invested in fur sherpa et cetera which skews the AUR higher.
Cashmere is not an issue in flagships because we don't have very much of it and we don't sell very much but there is a mix issue.
It's not clear to me at this point that that has affected us in the flagship volumes.
We're studying it very carefully.
It's not clear.
My first instinct is that that's not been the problem and we're looking at a lot of statistics.
But having said that we're being more careful with the mix and the AUR going into spring in case that's not true.
Mike are you seeing any cannibalization of Hollister to the A&amp;F stores in Europe at all? Of A&amp;F...
Hollister openings affecting the flagships.
For instance in Milan you've got a couple of Hollister stores now around the Milan flagship same with London more Hollister openings.
Could that be affecting the A&amp;F flagships? That's very astute.
Some and there's some cannibalization of flagship to flagship.
When we opened in Paris we're hit by a significant number in the London flagship.
I don't want to overreact to this because I think it is normal.
We've expected it but we're reacting as if that's not happening and we're running the best business we can because of it.
But that is a very very astute question.
Okay.
So it's something you're examining and it's something that you've contemplated in your $4.75 guidance? Absolutely.
Okay.
And Jonathan on the inventory? Also if you guys could address the Canada and Japanese flagships and what you might be doing to stem some of the profitability losses there.
Let's go to Japan.
In Ginza -- we have 2 stores in Japan as you know.
In Ginza we are redoing or eliminating an offsite stockroom bringing it on-site which will absolutely improve the profitability of that store.
That's our focus.
Fukuoka is a problem store that we would rather not have and we're working to that end.
And next in queue we have Liz Dunn with Macquarie.
So I guess just a couple of points of clarification.
In terms of the plan to increase AURs going forward or the comment that the third quarter got a little too low in the U.S.
does that mean that you'll be looking for a moderation in the comps and more gross margin going forward? I mean how do you sort of weigh the acceleration that you saw in the U.S.
business in the third quarter with obviously your thoughts that prices weren't appropriate? And then just a follow-up on your comment regarding buybacks.
You said you didn't buy back that much in the third quarter but you'd get back to normalized levels.
What does normalized levels mean? Does that mean you'll look at that $350 million minimum cash balance that you like to run with and be more aggressive about buying back above and beyond that? Yes let me take the second part first.
Yes the parameters for buybacks are what we've said in the past.
We're not going to go -- or we don't have any plans to go below that net $350 million cash footprint.
We plan to at least offset equity plan issuances and where we end up between those 2 guardrails will depend on market conditions.
And if we see opportunities to buy stock at prices which we think are attractive lined up with those other factors then we'll continue to do that.
In terms of the AUR I mean one important distinction is that the comment we made about modest increases again was a reference to the U.S.
chain stores.
As Mike alluded to a second ago in the flagships we're likely to be going the other way that the increases will be somewhat less in the spring than we've had in the fall.
But baked into our objective to hit those productivity goals we've talked about the U.S.
chain stores in the past is the assumption that we would get to somewhat modestly positive AURs in 2012.
But do you expect that to have an impact on your comp because one of the points of good news in the third quarter was the acceleration in the U.S.
business? But if you said it came at a cost that that was -- that's not sustainable going forward how do you feel about your ability to drive the U.S.
business if prices are coming up? Very good.
As I said we think we left dollars on the table and we really gave some margin away.
We will continue to drive productivity in the U.S.
stores and we think we could do so with a little moderation in the AUR.
And just to add to that Liz we are assuming some moderation actually in the comp rate in 2012 for those U.S.
chain stores relative to what we've been running the last couple of quarters.
And next we have Brian Tunick with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I guess first on the international side.
I guess Jonathan so on those four-wall margins that you talked about I think we'd like to know what kind of comp declines would it take to really impact that cushion you have on those returns.
And then maybe Mike just talk a little more about the U.S.
particularly in that sort of more value space that Hollister operates in.
What are you thinking as you look at the landscape right now as we head into holiday and next year? And sort of again what gives you that confidence that you can maybe get some more price? It just seems very competitive in that space.
Brian I guess on the first part it's sort of hard to generalize because every store is different and some of them beating their original projections more than others.
But as a reminder when we approve a new store we approve it based on what we think is a conservative volume and with a couple of exceptions for brand-new markets where we have less visibility.
It needs to at least be achieving that 30% four-wall for Hollister and we typically look for it to be somewhat higher for a flagship.
As you know and as we've discussed in the past generally those stores have run well ahead of those initial projections.
They've comped positively after running ahead of the projections.
So on average we have a significant amount of room for those productivity levels to come down and still be operating at very healthy four-wall margins.
But it's hard to generalize about that given that it could vary store by store.
Research Division</strong> Is there a maturity curve that you've seen at these Hollister stores that have been opened now 2 or 3 years that maybe you can share with us? Not really.
I mean there's no sort of clear path in there that we can point to.
What we can say they peak after a certain period of time.
I don't think we can say a lot at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then how about Mike just some thoughts on the U.S.
value channel.
I think it will continue to be a promotional business.
Why do I have faith that we'll continue to do well there? I think that we look very good for Christmas.
I think -- let's get back to basic merchandising I think we're invested in the right categories and the right depth and we'll see what happens.
And next we have Jennifer Black with Jennifer Black &amp; Associates.
I have a couple questions.
My first question I am curious Mike graphic tees have been soft for a number of retailers and I wondered what your thoughts were and your thoughts about logos.
It seems like kids don't want to wear huge logos.
And then I also wondered if you could talk about -- you have a significant cash position and would you consider making an acquisition of an established competitor like with the likes of somebody like Jack Wills? Let's talk about logos.
Logos are an ongoing part of our business.
We constantly try to make them more subtle.
We constantly try to promote left chest icons and less aggressive logoing.
It's been part of our business concept for a long time.
Having said that we continue to sell logo wear.
Although graphic tees are relatively weak fleece is relatively strong and fleece is a logo business.
So the conversation about kids don't want to wear logos anymore I've heard that for a long time but the fact is they want to continue to wear logos.
But it's a good question.
I guess on the second part Jennifer we think we've got a long runway with our current strategy and we think the return on investments from investing on our own growth is going to be the greatest return we can get for our capital certainly for the foreseeable future.
Great.
And could you also give a little bit of color on Gilly Hicks? I think Gilly Hicks is doing very well.
It's on track.
It's on our roadmap track.
I think we're continuing to make progress in the bra and underwear category which is where we've set our goals to become very good.
I think that positioning of the brand has gotten clearer.
It is clearer who the target customer is or taste levels for aspirations.
And I think you can see that in the stores today.
[Operator Instructions] And next we go to Anna Andreeva with FBR.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk about performance of your flagships domestically just any change that you're seeing there versus the second quarter? I was hoping you could also address a performance of your tourist stores in the U.S.
Have you guys seen softer environment there at all? The tourist stores held up very well during the quarter.
We saw a little bit of a softening in Fifth.
Not as much frankly as we've seen in the European flagship stores.
But in general the U.S.
tourist stores held up very well from a comp basis and from a profitability standpoint.
And I think as you know as we talked about in the past if you look at our top tranche of stores they've generally outperformed the chain stores consistently over time and have remained very profitable and comparable to the profitability we've seen in Europe and there's no change to that overall picture.
Research Division</strong> Could you also talk about the impact from the store closures that you guys are seeing domestically? Just our understanding has been there's only a minimal impact to four-walls but you are seeing productivity at adjacent stores improve.
Is there maybe opportunity to accelerate some store closures in 2012? Well the first part of it we closed 65 stores last year and I think we'd said that the average volume of those stores is about $1 million.
Depending on where those stores where we've now got a decent data read on how much of that volume transferred to other stores in the same model or to nearby stores of the same brand and that's something we're now using to look at future potential store closures.
On the second part of the question I think as we clearly alluded to in our comments we are looking at the potential for additional closures beyond the natural lease expirations that we talked 55 to 60 range.
And next we have Christine Chen with Needham &amp; Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was wondering when you talk about maybe pulling back a little bit on promotions will that be in the format of offering fewer category promotions less percentage off entire purchase or being strategic about excluding more stores year-over-year from the promotions? I don't think we can really comment on this Christine because it addresses our strategy.
We'd love to but we can't.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I also wanted to ask what do you think is happening in Canada? I mean the other retailers have also called out Canada as a little weaker.
Is there something specific you think that's happening in Canada? I mean we all know what's going on in Japan.
We wish we could tell you about Canada.
We are looking at Canada in great depth.
We are about to run some significant tests.
We honestly don't know.
And next we have Dana Telsey with Telsey Advisory Group.
Can you talk a little bit about the U.S.
core business getting back to peak domestic levels of productivity? How do you see the runway for that whether it's on product? And also just give us an update on men's and women's and anything on the cost side even with store expenses that you see is an ability to get you there.
I guess just to recap on what we said on that Dana in overall terms we've said that roadmap is to get back to 90% or slightly greater of peak productivity by next year and we've said that that would require us to sustain the chain store comps that we saw in the first half of this year.
We accelerated a little bit above that in this quarter.
So we can afford as I said a second ago for that U.S.
chain store comp to come down a little bit and still hit our goal in 2012.
Well that's what is baked into our plans at this point.
I guess men's and women's we said comp similarly for the quarter.
I'm not sure there's really much else we can add in terms of color on the chain store comp.
I think there's an indication that our content is good our men's and women's business is balanced.
So we're not counting on a particular category or one or the other to drive improvement to this number.
And next we have Edward Yruma with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us a quick update on Gilly Hicks particularly as it relates to your international operations? Ed I think Mike just talked a little about Gilly.
With regard to international we haven't been specific on that.
We have the one store in London which opened a year ago.
We are opening in Germany with Gilly in December and that will be our second international store.
We haven't spoken more broadly about that.
And we're opening another U.K.
store in Cardiff in December.
But that's all we've announced.
And next we have Paul Lejuez with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Anything that you guys are seeing now whether it be macro or the cannibalization Mike that you spoke of that makes you rethink the right number of flagships to be opening each year? And also wondering on the flagship you said it was seemingly a transactions issue and a traffic issue but I'm wondering what happened to average ticket or UPTs in the flagships in London and Milan.
I guess on the first part of the question Paul we don't have any change to the plans of the overall number flagship locations that we've talked about through 2015 some of the individual locations may move in and out.
But in total we don't foresee any change to that based on anything we've seen.
So I think that answers that part.
I think in terms of the average ticket in London and Milan we typically don't get into that level of detail.
So I'm not sure there's much else we can tell you on that.
And next we'll go to Barbara Wyckoff with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about specifics on the mainland China opening in fourth quarter I think there in Beijing and maybe Shanghai? And then just talk about the holiday 2010 timing of the product flow.
Sorry.
Yes I guess we have -- we're going to have 3 openings in China in the fourth quarter.
One of them is in Shanghai and the other one is in Beijing to your point.
Clearly this is our first step into mainland China so we're very interested to see what happens there and frankly very excited about the openings.
But there's really not much else we can tell you until we've actually opened those stores.
And the second part of the question Barbara I didn't understand that holiday product flow? Research Division</strong> The product flow.
When you flow in goods for -- typically you flow in before Black Friday and one right around Christmas to capture gift cards.
Is that about the same as last year? We've set the holiday set that was 3 weeks ago.
We will be flowing more product into the stores December week one.
That's the last Christmas flow holiday flow.
And next we have Michelle Tan with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the flexibility that you have to manage the macro issues in Europe and Asia.
How do you manage inventory levels in those stores? And what flexibility do you have on the expense line? Jonathan it looks like you're expecting better performance on stores and distribution non-occupancy stores and distribution in Q4 versus Q3.
So I'm curious if that's you managing variable expense at all or what flexibility there is in that line item.
Yes I guess on the last part Michelle I think it's probably just a function of scale and the impact of the additional volume we're adding in Q4 is helping with that.
But we continue to look very hard at all expenses and then we've been looking very hard at expenses into 2012 particularly preopening expense.
That was a number we'd called out earlier in the year as being very significant for '12 and that does look as though it's going to be quite a bit lower than we'd originally thought.
But in general we're continually looking to be as efficient as we can from an expense standpoint.
I'm not sure there's really much else we can say on that.
In terms of inventory in Europe and Asia in Europe we do have the ability to bring inventory back from Europe to the U.S.
if we need to.
So that gives us some ability to manage around that.
And obviously we can all send it the other way if the situation is reversed.
So we do have flexibility around that.
And next we have Omar Saad with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> The macro issues in Europe were obviously hitting a lot of the companies that we follow.
You're certainly not alone in that respect.
Although one interesting thing that we've been hearing is that for some of these brands that are big in Europe there's been a dichotomy between the secondary European markets and the big flagship tourist gateway markets whatever you want to call them where the business is held up a little -- a lot better.
And I wonder for you guys because obviously that's where your key flagships are does that reflect maybe you're not getting as much of the Chinese or Asian tourists in Europe as some of these luxury brands are? And does that reflect perhaps that the brand is still not as well known in Asia or does the brand maybe doesn't translate as well in Asia? Just any thoughts around that in terms of how you think about it.
I mean I think and I think we talked about this in the past the level of penetration of Chinese and other Asian customers in our flagship stores is probably lower than some of our -- some of the other brands you're thinking of.
So I think we would regard that as an opportunity as we have greater awareness in China and through Asia of the brands.
But I think that's a very astute question.
I think that's correct.
But it's -- we believe it's an awareness issue not a relevance issue.
And next in queue we have Kimberly Greenberger with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Mike I'm wondering if you can just talk to us about your philosophy on how to manage your U.S.
chain stores to a higher productivity level.
In other words if you start to pull back on some of the promotions and you see that comp run rate turn flattish or even slightly negative do you have a sort of backup plan where you're willing to compromise a little bit on your gross margin rate to continue to drive that productivity higher? Or are you rather prioritizing getting a better margin merchandise margin out of those stores? If you could just help us understand your approach that would be great.
I mean clearly our focus this year has been on driving the productivity and we kept the foot on the pedal this quarter.
And I think as we implied in some of our other comments our focus is going to be more now on getting the gross margin rate back up in those U.S.
chain stores in 2012 through a combination of modest AUR increases and then the costing benefit that we're expecting to see in the back half of the year allied with some benefit from closures.
And next we have Erika Maschmeyer with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just following up on that could you talk a little bit more about your gross margin assumptions for Q4 in terms of AUR and AUC given that you will -- are planning on being incrementally more focused on gross margin versus productivity? And then also just a follow-up on your European stores or international stores could you give us a sense of what London Tokyo and Milan are annualizing now? I think you've said over $200 million in the past.
And I know you won't comment on individual stores but could you also give us a sense of the magnitude of your European A&amp;F flagship comps as a group? On the first part of the question the comment on gross margins is looking into 2012 for the fourth quarter as we said on the prepared comments we're anticipating similar gross margin rate erosion to Q3.
But I can't really break that out between AUC and AUR.
We're not -- that's not a level of detail we can go into.
In terms of London Tokyo and Milan they're not far off that same $200 million number we gave 1.5 years or so ago.
And next we have Lorraine Hutchinson with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on some of the earlier inventory questions.
I know there's a lot of noise around store openings this quarter and next quarter.
If you exclude that can you just maybe talk about the run rate and how you're planning your inventory for existing stores? We obviously planned for all of the different components of our business in terms of the overall level of inventory.
I guess I'm not really sure what else we could tell you about the specifics of that.
When we look at the higher rate of inventory increase at the end of the year that takes into account the run rate of our like stores as well as the inventory we need to add to support DTC and support clearly the international stores.
I'm not sure there's really much else we can really add to that.
But it's a very detailed planning process we go through to determine those inventory levels.
And next we have Robin Murchison with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Jonathan just want to check and see if there's anything else you might add to cost that you're watching in the new year upward downward impact other than raw material.
For 2012 Robin? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Yes.
Well I mean clearly the big year-over-year favorability from middle of second quarter onwards is going to be in the cotton raw materials piece.
So I think the other pieces as we said in the past still moving upwards including labor costs and the effect of the time of the currency.
But we now have visibility on the impact of the raw materials piece year-over-year to have the confidence as Mike said earlier our year-over-year opportunity cost is going to be actually down netting those different effects.
And next we have David Glick with Buckingham Research Group.
Inc.</strong> Perhaps I missed it but could you tell us Jonathan what the aggregate international comp was in the third quarter we know the flagships are negative and Hollister positive.
I'm just trying to get a sense of how that aggregates and the type of assumptions you are factoring in on the international comp side heading towards that $4.75 goal in 2012.
We haven't given an aggregate comp number David and frankly I'm not sure how meaningful it is.
You've got a lot of different moving parts in Japan and Canada or in the flagships and Hollister in Europe.
And it's also still -- some of those pieces are on a pretty small base.
So that isn't something we've broken out.
Broadly speaking in terms of looking forward when we look at our non-promotional stores we are assuming a certainly a lower comp rate than we are for the chain stores for 2012 baked into that $4.75 objective.
And we'll take our final question from Jeff Black with Citi.
Research Division</strong> So Jonathan on the flagships on the 2 flagships that are comping negative if you annualized that are they still at 40% run rates? What is the profit four-wall profit of those 2 stores if we just assume now those through the end of the year? And on Japan where is the four-wall there? And is any improvement baked into the assumptions of the $4.75 or no on that one? And finally on the domestic AUR can you tell us what the domestic AUR was in terms of decline for 3Q? Jeff on the first part we really don't again get into the specifics of individual stores.
I think as I alluded to earlier on all 3 stores are running at 40% or greater four-wall during the third quarter.
I don't think there's anything else we can really add on that.
In terms of any improvements in -- the Japanese four-wall is clearly significantly lower than that.
That's something we're working on as Mike talked about.
We haven't baked in any improvements relative to what we're currently seeing in Japan.
And then I think I missed the third part.
Research Division</strong> Domestic AUR what was it down in 3Q just on the domestic base? Again we haven't broken that out specifically.
And that is all the time we have for questions today.
This concludes today's conference and we thank you for your participation.
Thank you.
Good day and welcome to the Abercrombie &amp; Fitch Fourth Quarter Earnings Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Eric Cerny.
Mr.
Cerny please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to our fourth quarter earnings call.
Earlier this morning we released our fourth quarter sales and earnings income statement balance sheet store opening and closing summary and an updated financial history.
Please feel free to reference these materials available on our website.
Also available on our website is an investor presentation which we will be referring to in our comments during this call.
This call is being recorded and the replay may be accessed through the internet at abercrombie.com under the Investors section.
Before we begin I remind you that any forward-looking statements we may make today are subject to the Safe Harbor statement found in our SEC filings.
Today's earnings call will be limited to one hour.
We will begin the call with a few brief remarks from Mike followed by a review of the financial performance for the quarter from Jonathan Ramsden.
After our prepared comments we will be available to take your questions for as long as time permits.
Please limit yourself to one question so that we can speak with as many callers as possible.
As a reminder the after-tax operating results of Ruehl for 2009 and prior periods are now included in discontinued operations and income statement and related comparisons to prior year therefore generally exclude Ruehl.
Before I turn the call over to Mike I would like to remind everyone that we will be hosting an Investor Day on Tuesday April 5 at our campus in New Albany Ohio.
Today we'll begin with registration at 9:00 and conclude by 2:30 p.m.
You can find more information regarding the day as well as registration details by viewing our Investor Relations website.
We look forward to your visit and hope that many of you will be able to attend.
Now to Mike.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
2010 was a year in which we exceeded our objectives in terms of sales operating income and earnings per share.
We did this while continuing to invest for the future and to build our organization to capitalize on the huge opportunities we see ahead.
With regard to the top line in 2010 we achieved Domestic same-store sales growth of 7% and total Domestic growth of 10% including Direct-to-Consumer.
This was driven in part by a more aggressive promotional stance but more important as those of you who visit our stores know by a compelling assortment and by stores that looked great.
It is also worth noting that our Domestic business continued to get stronger throughout the year.
Our International business was up 79% for the year.
We were off our initial goal of 30 international Hollister openings for the year but the very strong volume of the stores we did open compensated for this.
Across Europe our business is extremely strong.
Our U.K.
Hollister stores comped well above the overall company rate in 2010.
Our four German Hollister stores are running at more than double their initial projected volumes and the three Spanish stores are more than 50% higher.
Meanwhile we have continued to gain momentum in Italy with our three stores now running close to the U.K.
in average store volume.
Just over two years after we opened our first Hollister store in Europe we now have a business that is annualizing at over $300 million.
Turning to A&amp;F.
While Tokyo has trended lower our three major international flagship stores in London Milan and Tokyo are now annualizing well above the $200 million we talked about a year ago.
In Direct-to-Consumer we had total growth of 41% for the year with strong growth in both our Domestic and International business.
We added significant resources to our Direct-to-Consumer group during the year improved the shopability of our sites and continue to add new country-specific sites.
And the Gilly Hicks made very solid progress posting comps of close to 40% for the year and initiating a new 5 000 square foot store in the U.S.
as well as our first international opening in London in November.
Taking all of these things into account while there are certainly challenges ahead we feel very confident in the momentum of our business and the global power of our iconic brands.
Turning to 2011 I want to take a moment to talk about our roadmap objectives.
Starting with gross margin there is no doubt that sourcing costs are the biggest headwind we face.
When we last spoke in November I mentioned that we were seeing increased costs for the late-spring-season receipts.
That pressure has continued to increase.
And as we sit here today we are anticipating double-digit cost increases for the fall 2011 season.
In response to this we do expect to increase our tickets and our gross margin rate will also benefit from the continued growth of our International business.
However there is significant uncertainty about how these different effects will balance out in terms of their impact on our overall gross margin beyond the spring season.
One thing we will continue to do is to take a long-term approach.
Among other things that means that we will not sacrifice quality to achieve cost reductions.
Turning to our other roadmap objectives.
We have spoken in the past about a mid-single-digit same-store sales objective for 2011 and 2012.
We continue to believe this is realistic.
We are looking to accelerate the pace of international Hollister openings to approximately 30 to 40 this year.
These will include our first Hollister stores in mainland China and Hong Kong.
We will open a total of six A&amp;F flagships this year a combination of our full flagship stores and the smaller Tier 1 flagship format we have used in Copenhagen.
In addition to our previously announced Paris and Madrid openings these openings will include Düsseldorf Brussels Dublin and Singapore.
In total we are projecting annualized volume of around $200 million for these six flagship openings.
We continue to target high growth rates for our Direct-to-Consumer business which in 2011 will continue to benefit from multiple investments we are making in this business as well as from our growing international presence.
We are also looking to sustain the strong growth we have seen in Gilly Hicks.
Finally on expenses we continue to challenge all areas of our business to find efficiencies while at the same time we continue to invest in our long-term growth.
With that I'll hand the call over to Jonathan but will be available to answer your questions at the end of these comments.
Jonathan? Thank you Mike and good morning everyone.
I'll start with a quick recap of our results for the quarter and fiscal year and then go on to make some comments about 2011.
For the fourth quarter the company's net sales increased 23% to $1.15 billion while comp store sales increased 13%.
Our gross margin rate for the quarter was 63.6% approximately in line with last year's gross margin rate of 63.5%.
Our operating income for the quarter was $144.7 million.
This included pretax charges of $48.4 million associated with store-related impairment charges and $4 million associated with the closure of 56 domestic stores during the quarter.
A summary of our operating expenses can be found on Page 8 in the investor presentation.
MG&amp;A expense for the quarter was $106.4 million up 15% versus last year's expense of $92.4 million.
MG&amp;A for the quarter included equity and incentive comp of $17.8 million versus $10.4 million last year.
MG&amp;A for the quarter also included approximately $5.5 million of charges not anticipated at the beginning of the quarter related to an increase in legal reserves a write-off on the trade-in of our fractional aircraft ownership to reduce our operating costs going forward and some software write-offs.
Stores and distribution expense of approximately $485 million for the quarter included the $52.4 million of impairment in store closure charges that were referred to a moment ago.
Excluding those charges store occupancy costs were approximately $168 million.
All other stores and distribution costs represented 23.1% of sales modestly below the 23.6% of sales they represented last year and included approximately $4 million of additional depreciation related to our DC consolidation which I will come back to in a moment.
For the year as a whole excluding the net effect of impairment charges and store closure charges we achieved approximately 320 basis points of operating margin improvement which was ahead of our roadmap objective for the year.
Growth in the four wall contribution of international stores was the greatest driver of this improvement with DTC and domestic store productivity also making significant contributions.
These contributions were partially offset by growth in non-four wall expenses including MG&amp;A store management and support and DC costs.
The impact of Gilly Hicks was not significant to the year-over-year change in margin.
Turning to the balance sheet.
We ended the quarter with total inventory of costs up 24% versus a year ago or up 22% excluding in-transit.
Inventory days on hand at the end of the quarter were comparable with the low points over the past five years.
Looking forward we expect inventory on hand excluding in-transit to be flat in dollar terms at the end of the spring season.
We ended the year with $826 million in cash and equivalents compared to $670 million at the comparable point last year.
During the quarter we repurchased approximately 913 000 shares at an aggregate cost of approximately $47 million bringing our total repurchases for the year to a little under 1.6 million shares.
Going forward we expect to continue share buybacks within the parameters outlined on our last earnings call.
Turning to 2011 our focus is to continue making progress on our key roadmap objectives.
Domestically as Mike said our objective is to maintain the mid-single-digit comp improvement we achieved in 2010 including for the first quarter.
In addition we continue to expect approximately 50 store closures by the end of 2011.
Internationally we expect to accelerate our rate of store openings for both A&amp;F and Hollister and this should continue to drive significant operating margin improvement.
We expect DTC to continue to make a meaningful contribution to our overall margin improvement.
We are also planning for continued strong growth from Gilly Hicks although we expect the operating margin effect from Gilly Hicks will have minimal impact on our overall operating margin through 2012.
Last we continue to focus on maintaining tight control of expenses including our non-four wall expenses.
This includes keeping our home office headcount flattish and continuing to identify opportunities to gain greater cost efficiency such as with our DC consolidation.
So more specific guidance on 2011 is included on Page 15 and 16 of our Investor Presentation.
Within the year as we have indicated in the past we do not expect our rate of margin improvement to be linear and in particular due to timing factors we expect the second quarter to be challenging.
Overall as we look to our roadmap goal of a 15% operating margin in 2012 we do not believe it is realistic to expect that our gross margin will return to its peak level of around 67% by that point.
However if we are able to hold our gross margin approximately flat in 2011 and make some progress in 2012 we believe the overall operating margin goal remains achievable.
As Mike said earlier however our visibility on gross margin beyond the spring season is limited at this point.
I want to make a few comments about our plans to consolidate our DC facilities here in New Albany.
As many of you are aware we currently operate two DCs one serving a&amp;f kids and our global DTC business for all brands and the other serving Hollister and Gilly Hicks.
Going forward we plan to consolidate into a single DC which should in turn facilitate a sale of our second DC and result in reduced distribution costs upon completion by mid-2012.
We expect to incur approximately $26 million in CapEx associated with the consolidation of which approximately $19 million will be incurred in 2011.
From an accounting standpoint the consolidation is expected to result in accelerated depreciation of the existing DC to building and equipment of $28 million or slightly higher of which $4 million was recognized in the fourth quarter and approximately $4 million per quarter is expected to be recognized in 2011.
During our Investor Day in April we will offer a tour and detailed presentation on these plans.
In total fiscal 2011 total capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $300 million predominantly related to new stores store refreshes and remodels.
This concludes our prepared comments section of the call.
We are now available to take your questions.
Please limit yourself to one question so that we can speak with as many callers as possible.
After everyone has had a chance we will be happy to take follow-up questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Michelle Tan with Goldman Sachs.
Mike I was wondering if you could give us a little bit more color on how you're thinking about taking up ticket.
Is it across the board or varied by geography? What's the magnitude? And if the consumer accepts it what are the implications for second half IMU? Well I think Michelle that's the question of the day.
We know we have to pass the cost increases.
The question is how much? And you're right in terms of where.
Clearly we have more opportunity to pass the increases on in our International business than our Domestic business.
So the answer is we know we are going to be increasing ticket prices.
We have to.
We're comfortable that we can pass some of these increases on to the customer.
We're not comfortable with how much.
Your next question comes from Evren Kopelman with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC</strong> As a follow-up to that question can you talk a little bit about how you're planning inventory units for the second half? Obviously it's hard to know the demand elasticity but as you think about the unit for the U.S.
versus International business do you have an opportunity to move units? Or is it “Once it's in a country it's there”? I guess it says the overall question about units.
I don’t think we really want to get into that for the fall season.
We've given guidance on inventory dollars at the end of spring season but I don't think we want to get into any more specifics beyond that.
To your question about whether we could move inventory units back-and-forth between the U.S.
and Europe it's easier to move it from the U.S.
to Europe.
There are some tax limitations on our ability to bring them back from Europe to the U.S.
Your next question comes from Jeff Klinefelter with Piper Jaffray.
I want to maybe clarify Jonathan that the Hollister stores -- any sense out of that 30 to 40 how many of those would be Asia versus Europe? And then also those flagship Abercrombie's Tier 1 versus traditional any sense for number? I just wanted to clarify that.
And then in terms of the four-wall trends out of International it's pretty encouraging the profitability.
Is there any other detail you can give us in terms of how those are measuring up versus Domestic? Yes I mean on the 30 to 40 Jeff they do skew very heavily towards Europe so they're predominantly Europe.
And as we've said they're predominantly in the back half of the year which is one of the factors that's impacting the second quarter because some of the preopening charges that are hitting that quarter.
In terms of the six A&amp;Fs as we said on the call in aggregate we're projecting annualized volume of around $200 million for those six stores in total.
They are typically sort of -- Düsseldorf Singapore and Paris will be more in that sort of larger flagship category.
Brussels Dublin will be probably more in the sort of Copenhagen Fukuoka mold.
But obviously all those things are on a continuum so it's difficult to be too precise but that might be broadly how you could think about them.
And then I think the third part of your question was four-wall profitability.
As you know our core metric when we sign up for a new store is that we want to hit that 30% four-wall margin at least so if we're doing significantly better than the volumes we protected in those stores that is taking those of four-wall margins higher than that.
So I think that gives you some indication of what we're seeing and that's why International growth was the most significant driver of our margin improvement year-over-year.
Your next question is from Janet Kloppenburg with JJK Research.
Michael I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about perhaps some opportunity for IMU benefit in the back half of 2011 through shallower promotions.
Product is getting stronger across the board and I'm wondering if you're seeing an opportunity with the economy improving for perhaps promotions to be less steep or less broad than they were in this past season.
And Jonathan just a quick question on the $1.38 that was reported exclusive of impairment charges.
Was that legal charge of $0.04 per share included in that $1.38 or excluded? Let me answer the first part of the question Janet.
I would hope that we will be able to have promotions that are less deep and fewer of them.
We're hoping that our markdown dollars are more efficient.
And I would say we absolutely would like to go there.
Beyond that I can't be more specific.
The second part of your question the only thing that is added back in the $1.38 is the impairment charge and then the store exit charges of around $4 million.
So the $5.5 million I referred to in MG&amp;A is not added back in that number nor is the DC depreciation of $4 million which is included in that $1.38.
Your next question will come from Stacy Pak with Barclays Capital.
I guess one follow-up question on the pricing.
Mike are you thinking that you will actually raise prices domestically versus have less markdowns? And then can you comment internationally what you did in response to the VAT tax increase? Did you take prices up there? And are you seeing any impact from that? And then Jonathan I was hoping you could clarify Q2 a little bit.
I mean you alluded to higher preopenings from the later store openings in the year but I would think also your gross margin would be better in Q2 given the rising costs in the back half.
So can you just clarify what you're seeing in Q2 a little bit? I'm going to let Jonathan handle all those answers.
Let me start with Q2 then.
What we're calling out -- and we've spoke to this I think several times in the past -- is that as we continue to make progress with our operating margin it's not necessarily going to be even by quarter.
I think the point of the comment we're making was simply that the second quarter within the year is the one where that impact is the most significant.
And that's primarily because we have heavy skew towards our store openings later in the year so we have big preopening rent other preopening costs starting to come into play in Q2 before we start to get the volume benefit from those and that starts to turn around at the back half of the year as the volume comes on stream.
With regard to gross margin we haven't been specific about how that's going to break out by quarter.
We do expect approximately flattish for the season as a whole.
The cost is certainly escalating in the second quarter and the question of when we take our tickets up and start to see that benefit could create a little bit of a timing disconnect which may also impact the second quarter relative to the other quarters in the year.
And the VAT tax? We made a number of ticket adjustments in the U.K.
in particular and that's one of the factors that's been taken into account in what we've done there and will continue to do.
And no negative reaction I assume.
I mean our U.K.
results have obviously been very strong.
We haven't called that out anything other than what we've spoken to you for 2010 as a whole.
But we’re obviously very happy with our U.K.
business.
Your next question is from Randy Konik with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> I guess Jonathan or Mike just want to focus on domestic store base here obviously on the store close.
Do you think that after the 50 store closures in 2011 we’re done? And is there any type of color you can give us on how bad these stores are from -- or below the average store are from a sales-productivity preferred-margin basis just so we can get a sense of how much these stores have been weighing on the product profitability of the company? And as these stores are closed do we get closer and closer to that 75% of peak productivity you’re focused on for domestic market? I guess with regard to closures we do expect that we'll continue to do closures post 2011.
We haven't given specific numbers on that but as we go through the year and get closer to thinking about 2012 I think we will start to talk more specifically about this.
But as we spoke during the past there was a fairly significant number of stores around 200 or so that were in negative territory.
We've dealt with a decent chunk of those.
Some of those have got a little bit better but some of those expirations fall out beyond the 2010 2011 time frame.
So we do expect that we'll be continuing closures.
I don't think we're ready yet for the specific number on what that will be in 2012 and 2013 but I think we'll do that relatively soon.
In terms of how bad we spoke about -- the class of 2010 closure is averaging about $1 million of volume yet for 2011 we'll give more specifics on that going forward but it's probably not going to be dramatically different to that.
And then the primary driver of the negative contribution is just the absolute low level of volume as opposed to occupancy.
But we'll start to give a little bit more color on that going forward.
I think in the overall scheme of things as we've said in the past the impact of closures relative the domestic store productivity increases for existing stores is much less.
So the primary driver of getting back to that 85% or a little better is going to be the same-store sales in the stores we have open not the ones we're closing.
Inc.</strong> If I may is there any type of target you think you can get to from a long-term operating margin standpoint that you're now targeting for the Domestic business versus the prior peak of around 20%? Is there anything we can kind of look at there? We're working very hard at the moment on our long-term plan.
Well first of all we're rolling forward our three-year plan to add in 2013 and then we're working on our long-term plan out beyond that.
And I think we'll start to get more color on that probably some extent at the Investor Day in April as we go through the year and as we get to clearer visibility and more comfort with where those plans are going to take us.
Your next question will come from Christine Chen with Needham &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> Wondering if you could maybe talk about your thought process in leading in China and Hong Kong with Hollister rather than Abercrombie.
And I'm curious where in Hong Kong the Hollister store might be.
Is it going to be flagship? Is it a mall-based store? If you could just talk about that a little bit.
I think we can.
The first store in Hong Kong is a Hollister mall-based store.
It's in the Festival Walk center.
We probably would have liked to have led with an A&amp;F flagship and we simply weren't able to make a deal quickly enough.
We're working very hard on that but we think that Hollister in Hong Kong and China will be a mall-based business.
LLC</strong> And do you worry about the counterfeiting of your brand over there? Constantly.
LLC</strong> So what are you going to do about it? I mean I guess it's flattery but...
Well we have a wonderful team in place and they've been working on the counterfeiting there for quite a few years.
We're very aware of what it is probably where it's going.
In fact we're told that having bricks-and-mortar in these countries will in fact improve that rather than take it the other way.
We're hopeful but fearful.
Your next question is from Paul Lejuez with Nomura.
Can you talk a little bit about the timing of the A&amp;F flagships? When should we expect -- the four that you announced today when should we expect those to open? And then you've spoken a little bit about the second quarter pressure from preopening.
Can you maybe talk about when these stores either flagship or international Hollister locations -- how long does it take? When do they become profitable to the P&amp;L? Is it day one? Can you maybe just talk about that timeline? I'll give you the opening and Jonathan can take you from there.
Paris is May; Madrid is third quarter; Düsseldorf Brussels Singapore and Dublin are all fourth quarter.
Their actual dates on those are not going to be more specific than the quarter.
Well on the second part of your question we expect all of our stores to be profitable from the day the doors open.
The issue is prior to that actual opening we're typically paying and booking rent expense for five months or more for Hollister store and up to a year or more in some cases for an A&amp;F flagship store.
So we have that expense even though we don't have any sales volume.
And then we also as we get closer to the opening of the store we have to start hiring managers.
If it's a new international store we have expats that go over typically from U.S.
to open the stores initially.
They have to go through language training and they can be in-country for several months prior to the opening of a store particularly a flagship.
So all of the costs sit there prior to opening but the day we open we fully expect all of our stores to be operating about 30% or better margin at that point.
Your next question comes from Betty Chen with Wedbush Securities.
I was wondering if you can speak a little bit more about the Direct-to-Consumer business.
It grew by a significant amount in the fourth quarter and throughout 2010.
I believe Mike you mentioned that you've been making multiple investments and also looking into more company-specific sites.
Can you talk a little bit more about the investments you might make in 2011 and sort of what sort of progress that we can look from that channel throughout this year? I'm going to turn that over to Jonathan.
I think the reference was to country-specific sites rather than company-specific sites.
Basically our model continues to be that once we open the store in a new country we open up a country-specific DTC site as well.
So that it obviously helps with -- the opening of the store helps with awareness and we typically see a lift in volume on DTC once we have a store presence in a country.
In terms of the incremental investments I think we'd identified a year or so ago a lot of areas where we had the opportunity to invest and to drive the DTC business further.
Many of those have not come into play yet.
I don't think we want to talk too specifically about what they are in 2011 but we feel we made good progress.
But one of the reasons we feel optimistic about the progress we can make in '11 and '12 is that we know there are several potentially significant things that we've not yet activated but we'll be doing over the coming months.
Just to mention one we are redesigning our sites and you're going to see all of that coming live but there are many other things that we're working on which we think will be meaningful to the business.
Your next question is from Dana Telsey with Telsey Advisory Group.
As you see product trends Mike in terms of the newness that you're defining and how it's moving along where are you in the progress towards newness both on Mens and Womens? And what do you see happening going further? And then just wanted clarification on inventory.
How do you see it trending in units and in dollars whether it’s for the first quarter or the first half? The answer to the first question Dana is that we're very much on track.
We're getting on track in terms of looking to what's next -- looking for what's next that is appropriate for our business -- and then going through a rigorous testing process before we make major statements which I think you can see in our stores is how we look today.
So I think that it's a very astute question because it is the process and I think we're doing better and better at that in both Womens and Mens.
And clearly the Womens business has in the fourth quarter outperformed the Mens business which was still strong.
So we're very pleased with our progress and process.
Dana on the second part of your question as we said on the comments a few minutes ago we expect inventory dollars to be approximately flat at the end of the spring season.
We typically manage inventory on a seasonal basis and focus less on the quarter end which can be subject to some fairly significant timing effects.
But as of this point we would probably expect the first quarter to be up modestly versus last year but to be back flat in dollar terms at the end of the second quarter.
But again we think the end-of-season position is really the most significant piece to focus on.
Your next question is from Edward Yruma with KeyBanc.
First now that you've made some tweaks to the box size of Gilly Hicks how do you feel about kind of its performance and the longer-term rollout potential? And second more housekeeping how do we think about the potential accounting head for the LTIP? Jonathan? On the LTIP Ed it's entirely a function of the number of shares we have available in our plans relative to the share obligations that we have.
Frankly it's rather complex to explain and I'd probably take up the rest of the call if I try to do it in any level of detail.
But essentially it's a function of the stock price.
The stock price gets to certain levels that requires a greater number of shares to settle outstanding awards and triggers additional awards.
At a certain point those obligations could become greater than the remaining number of shares we have available in the plans.
So there is a reasonable likelihood that we will put up a long-term incentive plan at this year's Annual Meeting and if that goes through that will obviously alleviate that problem hopefully fairly significantly.
The consequences of that issue not being alleviated and ultimately running out of shares would be that we would have to start to mark-to-market certain share awards on the expectation that they would need to be settled in cash.
So it would create some quarter-to-quarter earnings volatility because we will need to mark the awards to market each quarter based on the stock price.
If we ever get into that scenario we'll certainly give people the data to understand the impact of that quarter-to-quarter but obviously we're hopeful that that situation doesn't arise because we will be able to get a long-term incentive approved that makes the issue moot.
I'll comment on the Gilly Hicks question.
We feel very positive about the new size the 5 000 square foot Gilly Hicks prototype and are very very optimistic about the long-term potential of this brand.
Your next question is from Eric Beder with Brean Murray.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC</strong> Your International issue is about 20%.
What are you looking at for next year in terms of that? When do you think -- or do you believe that you could be over 50% of your sales internationally going forward? Eric we said in the past that we expect to be around 30% in 2012.
I think that's another one of those pieces of data -- as we give a more longer-term outlook at the Investor Day we'll give an updated view on that.
But as of today that probably remains pretty close to what we expect in 2012.
Where it goes beyond 2012 I think we'll give more color on as we go forward.
We certainly expect and strongly believe that there is a huge growth opportunity internationally and we don’t see that dwindling or losing steam anytime soon.
Your next question is from Robin Murchison with SunTrust.
Previously in terms of AUR you've indicated -- and congratulations by the way on the significant improvement in the fourth quarter -- but so going forward I think you've indicated that we should continue to expect sequential improvement.
I wanted to get an update on that and then also if you could update us on the U.K.
distribution center.
I don't think we've said more than we anticipate the AUR being positive this spring.
And I think that's all we can say at this moment about that.
I think it will turn positive in the fall as well as in overall terms.
Right.
Clearly.
On the U.K.
DC we have a Netherlands DC Robin which serves as our European business.
So that regimen has been in place for I guess about two years now.
We had a five-year original deal with TNT [TNT Fashion] which is our third-party distribution function in the Netherlands.
So we don't have anything significant in the U.K.
at this point.
And that distribution center in the Netherlands is servicing today all of our European business as well as the two Japanese stores.
Certainly on the agenda is the possibility that we'll have an Asian distribution center probably a similar outsourced arrangement sometime fairly soon.
Your next question is from Lorraine Hutchinson with Bank of America.
You mentioned Tokyo sales trending down.
Can you just talk about why you think that is and then implications for the overall business in Japan? Let me take a stab at that.
We're not completely sure.
Ginza is doing a healthy volume but it's not what we anticipated.
I have to emphasize that it is a very healthy volume but we did not make our opening goal which was very aggressive.
We're not completely sure but we're continuing to work through the dynamics of that business.
We're actually very cautious on Japan now.
We do not have any more Japanese deals in pipeline and we'll take it slowly.
Your next question is from Laura Champine with Cowen and Company.
LLC</strong> I'm wondering if you're looking at the potential for taking costs out in product whether that means using less cotton or moving to other countries.
I'm noticing for example your spring wovens looked a little lighter.
I don't know if that's a style decision or if that's an effort to take cost out of the product.
Well let me answer the second part of the question.
We have not taken any weight out of that fabric.
We continue to source as efficiently as we can in terms of new potential countries.
We look to be as efficient as we can be in terms of cost.
We're saying we're not taking quality out of the product and we're really not but there's some tricks to the product that we can do that will not take quality out of the product but will cost a little less.
We have the opportunity to do that more in the Hollister brand actually than the Abercrombie &amp; Fitch brand.
Your next question is from Richard Jaffe with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Mike a philosophical question.
As costs rise or are anticipated to rise in the second half obviously you can't do much about it other than trying your best to source effectively.
How do you feel about sharing some of that cost increase with the consumer versus swallowing some of that cost increase in the form of depressed margin and hope to manage the business more efficiently? How does it weigh in your mind? Well that weighs on our minds all the time but I think the answer to the question Richard is that a portion of these cost increases have to be passed on because they are pretty steep.
So “We will be increasing our prices” is the answer to the question.
Order of magnitude I cannot tell you at this moment.
Your next question is from Kimberly Greenberger from Morgan Stanley.
Mike I'm wondering as you look into the second half of the year how you're thinking about the trade-off between the pricing architecture at Hollister versus A&amp;F? And are you expecting any slowdown in your comp momentum as you begin to raise price? Or do you just expect that the trade-off between the higher AUR and perhaps slightly fewer units will be net neutral and you'll be able to maintain your momentum? Just how are you thinking about managing through this process? I think the answer is that we're doing it very carefully and taking a stance that is almost week-by-week.
What's happening as we're raising prices? What's the reaction? What's the reaction by brand? I wish I could give you a roadmap at this point but I can't.
And I would doubt that anybody really can.
And I think the point of this tension is that it has to be managed carefully and really on a week-by-week basis.
And those businesses that can do that I think will make their way through this.
Those that can't I think they're big problems.
Your next question is from Robert Samuels with Phoenix Partners.
Jonathan can you just discuss briefly just your views on cash and your minimum cash cushion that you like to maintain.
And you bought back a little more stock this quarter.
Would you think about being more aggressive with your buyback going forward? Robert yes I think we basically going to operate within those two guardrails that we talked about on the last earnings call.
At the lower end we want to maintain always a very healthy net cash cushion which we've articulated as being around that $350 million figure at the trough point of the cycle which is -- clearly January is not the trough point of the cycle.
On the other end of the spectrum we want to at least be offsetting equity planned share issuances so the overall share count stays flat.
Where we end up between those two points I think is going to be a function of market conditions how we're feeling about business in general.
But they would be the two guardrails which I think hopefully gives people some sense of how to model that out for 2011.
Your next question is from Jeff Black from Citi.
I guess on the pricing front it sounds like you're experimenting with taking some prices up.
But do you have any clear evidence that you will in fact be able to raise price at the U.S.
divisions? And then Jonathan I know you said you don't want to talk about the second half but regarding units can we assume that units are down in the U.S? I mean obviously your plan obviously there's big print on international that is going to drive the overall picture higher but U.S.-specific can we expect units to be down? Let me answer the first part of the question.
And the only evidence we have is that we do have momentum in our business in the U.S.
business.
So that gives us comfort that we can do so.
Yes on the second part of the question Jeff I mean part of the reason why we can't be too specific is that it's not fully baked for the full season and we're still working very hard on the full season on costing on projecting out comps by quarter.
So we're still working through that.
I think overall we said we expect AURs to be up and that will certainly be a contributor to the comp improvement.
In terms of figuring out what that mean in terms of units obviously the AUR component increase offsets some of the comp increase in terms of what it means for units but I don't think at this point we're ready to be more specific than that for the fall season.
Your next question is from Marni Shapiro with The Retail Tracker.
One I do want to follow-up on the pricing question.
It seems to me in walking your stores you have been playing around with the pricing for the last little while but especially since spring has set and I'm curious if you can talk a little bit about that? And if you found any difference between -- historically your Hollister pricing in kids have been very similar.
And I've noticed recently some of those have kind of played around.
I've noticed you put items on the floor and I'll call it swim as an easy example that you've not taken the price down at all since last year and it's cold and already selling.
So if you could just talk a little bit -- I know everybody's very concerned about the pricing but it seems to me you've already started playing with it and if you've seen any positive results that you have visibility.
And how is it playing out in Europe most importantly? Do you have more ability to raise pricing there? And how do you manage the markdown from the backside of that in Europe? There's a whole bunch of parts to this question.
I think the first part of the question is answered the way -- it was to say that we look at this on a week-by-week basis and that's how this has to be how the business has to be run today.
I can't answer what has been successful what hasn't.
Clearly we have an opportunity for increasing prices more in Europe than in the U.S.
Your next question is from Sam Panella with Raymond James.
Going back to the gross margin guidance and previously I think you've said that averaging the cost would be about flat year-over-year in the first half.
Any differences that you can call out between first quarter and second quarter? And then in terms of the gross margin expectation to be up in the first quarter should we think about that similar to the magnitude that you're able to get in the fourth quarter? Or is there opportunity to do better than that? Yes I think we had previously said roughly flat in the spring season.
I think what come into play more and more is those later receipts in the season.
We started to see the pressure that we're seeing throughout the fall season.
And to the point earlier the time of when we are fully able to react from a ticket standpoint may create a little bit of a disconnect in the second quarter.
But implicit in us saying that we are expecting flat for the season and up in Q1 is therefore that there could be a little bit of gross margin erosion in Q2.
I think beyond that I'm not sure we can pass that any further at this point.
Your next question is from Adrienne Tennant with Janney Capital Market.
My question is on a little bit more color on the magnitude of the cost inflation.
You said double-digits.
How far are you bought through at this current time? And I would expect that with cotton continuing to move up -- should we expect 10% in Q3-ish and maybe more toward the 15% range in the fourth quarter? Any more color on that would be great.
And then I was sorry to hear about Fifth Ave.
Can you give us an update on that when will it be reopened if it isn't already? Yes three parts to the question.
Let me handle Fifth Avenue first.
We are hoping to reopen next week.
For those of you who didn't know we had a fire in the store.
There is smoke and water damage but we are working very hard to reopen next week.
The other part of the question was the magnitude of the inflation.
We can't really say that at this point.
We're grappling with this.
We have bought our back-to-school assortments.
We're still negotiating for Labor Day and on.
Your next question is from Jennifer Black with Jennifer Black and Associates.
I know the fragrance business is a big priority and I wondered if you feel like you're making headway as far as coming up with a counterpart to Fierce on the female side? And then any comments you have on your accessories business would be great.
We've been working very hard on the female equivalent of Fierce.
We have one that we will be introducing this Christmas and I hope it's going to be the equivalent of Fierce.
If it is then these calls will become a lot easier in the future.
Your next question comes from Liz Dunn with FBR.
Just a clarification on the sales guidance in line with 2010.
I mean is it just fair to say based on the visibility that you have to the first half or the first quarter that the first quarter should be stronger than the rest of the year? And then I did a store tour last week and really got some great feedback on your inventory management through the fourth quarter.
So first congratulations on that.
I think very few of us would have congratulated you on your inventory management heading into the season so you clearly did a fabulous job.
Can you talk a little bit more about your allocation strategies because the District Manager we spoke with was quite complimentary on the inventory allocation that happened in the fourth quarter as it related to her stores? Let me just take the first one Liz.
We're saying that we're targeting a mid-single-digit comp for the full year including for the first quarter just to recap what we said earlier.
I think one of the things we feel is that we've got a lot better at our ability to project and forecast our own business as that as we've discussed in the past the strongest correlation we typically see is how we plan our own business as opposed to what's happening elsewhere in the markets.
So obviously there's always some external factors that impact what the business is trending.
But we feel as we said that that mid-single-digit comp is achievable for the year including for the first quarter.
In the second part of the question was first half of Q1.
I think I probably dealt with that.
On the allocation strategies I'm not sure how much detail we can really go into on that.
Obviously it's a very complex area so I'm not sure in the remaining couple of minutes we have we can really do justice to it.
Your last question will come from Linda Tsai with MKM Partners.
Could you just provide us with some intel on the customers that shop at the international Hollister and international Abercrombies? How similar are they to the customers you see shopping at the domestic stores? The answer is very similar in targeted age income.
I think A&amp;F flagships have a broader customer in terms of age and by broader I mean they skew older.
There are older customers shopping in those stores than tend to shop in the domestic A&amp;F stores.
But part of that -- it's a little bit complicated because a lot of that shopping is for other people so they're buying for younger people.
But in terms of actual purchases the flagships skew a little bit older.
That does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Abercrombie &amp; Fitch First Quarter Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Eric Cerny.
Mr.
Cerny please go ahead sir.
Thank you good morning and welcome to our first quarter earnings call.
Earlier today we released our first quarter sales and earnings income statement balance sheet store opening and closing summary and an updated financial history.
Please feel free to reference these materials available on our website.
Also available on our website is an investor presentation which we will be referring to in our comments during this call.
This call is being recorded and the replay may be accessed through the Internet at abercrombie.com under the Investor Relations section.
Before we begin I remind you that any forward-looking statements we may make today are subject to the Safe Harbor statement found in our SEC filings.
Today's earnings call will be limited to one hour.
Joining me today on the call are Mike Jeffries and Jonathan Ramsden.
We'll begin the call with a few brief remarks from Mike followed by a review of the financial performance for the quarter from Jonathan.
After our prepared comments we'll be available to take your questions as long as time permits.
Now to Mike.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
While we are disappointed that European sales trends remained challenging in a very difficult macroeconomic environment we are largely satisfied with our overall performance for the quarter in that context.
Our U.S.
business including direct-to-consumer increased 4% on a comparable basis on top of a strong performance last year.
Our international business comped negatively but the economics remain strong and we delivered overall international sales growth of 42% including a strong performance in direct-to-consumer.
With cotton cost issues now largely behind us we look forward to strong year-over-year earnings growth in the back half of the year.
In that context I would like to spend a few minutes reviewing some highlights for the quarter.
Starting with international.
We opened 7 new Hollister stores during the quarter including our third store in China.
China remains a major priority for us this year with another 2 or 3 Hollister openings anticipated.
In addition we expect our Hong Kong A&amp;F flagship opening in August to play a key role in raising awareness of our brands in Mainland China.
Moving back to Europe.
At the very end of the quarter we opened our Hamburg A&amp;F flagship in the iconic Alte Post building.
We look forward to opening our third German A&amp;F store in Munich later in the year.
Subsequent to quarter end we made a big splash in London with the opening of a combined Hollister and Gilly Hicks store on Regent Street and 3 new Gilly Hicks mall stores around London.
These stores all opened on Saturday and are a big statement about our intentions for the Gilly Hicks brand.
We had a lot of fun with the openings and I encourage all of you to check out the pictures and videos available on our Facebook pages that captured the energy and excitement of the day.
Turning to direct-to-consumer.
We are pleased with our continued strong growth of 40% for the quarter which was on top of 32% growth in the comparable period last year.
We are even more pleased that our international business grew faster than the overall rate of growth.
This quarter marks the ninth consecutive quarter of increases in direct-to-consumer of greater than 25%.
Our margins in the direct-to-consumer channel remain strong and we expect to continue driving strong growth both through growing awareness of our brands internationally and through multiple investments we are making in the channel.
As I mentioned a moment ago our overall U.S.
retail segment comps were up 4% on top of strong growth last year.
We were able to do this while getting our AU up -- AUR up slightly.
Continuing to make progress on AUR is an important goal for us going forward.
With regard to our stores and the assortment we are very happy with our spring merchandise.
As many of you have noted in your store checks we feel very much like spring with bright colors throughout the assortments.
While it will not fully manifest itself until later in the year we are also very pleased with the progress we have made on sourcing costs which will give us a strong tailwind starting in the middle of Q2.
This has been a major area of focus over the past 6 months and our merchant sourcing and planning teams have done a great job.
This benefit is giving us significant insulation against the impact of macro-driven top line trends for the remainder of the year.
Coming back to our international stores.
We spent a lot of time analyzing and understanding the trends in these stores and making sure we have incorporated the appropriate takeaways in our longer-term strategy.
We are committed to remaining disciplined in our approach to this strategy and opening stores that meet our margin criteria based on conservative volume assumptions.
We believe that the macro environment in Europe has been a significant factor in the recent trends we have seen.
Cannibalization has also been a factor.
However it is important to note that given the extraordinarily strong start we made in Europe and putting aside the current cyclical macroeconomic factors at play we have long been prepared for a period of negative same-store sales.
When we look at the current trends in Europe the questions we ask ourselves are: first are our stores continuing to stand out from the mall in terms of excitement and energy and in terms of traffic and productivity; second are the new store volumes consistent with the volumes at which we approved the deals; third are we achieving our annualized targets 30% 4-wall margins at the current trend and after cannibalization; last is our international direct-to-consumer business continuing to grow at a healthy rate.
Despite the downtrend we’ve experienced at this point the answer to all of those questions is yes in aggregate and yes individually for the majority of our European stores.
Based on that while we will continue to review trends closely and be very disciplined in how we approach new store openings we believe the current economics of our business in Europe strongly affirm our long-term strategy.
We also believe that the other key components of our strategy are on track.
These include: one continuing to provide high-quality trend-right merchandise in a compelling and differentiated store experience; 2 continuing to close underperforming U.S.
chain stores; 3 investing in our DTC business particularly the international business; and 4 continuing to seek ways to operate more efficiently and reduce expenses.
There are things that are not under our control most notably the macro environment.
But we believe we are doing the right things where we do have control.
And we look forward to moving into a period of sustained year-over-year EPS growth even in a challenged environment.
With that I'll hand you over to Jonathan but will be available to answer your questions in a few minutes.
Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
I'll start with a short summary of our results for the quarter and then give an update on our outlook for the full year.
For the quarter the company's net sales increased 10% to $921 million while comp store sales were down 5% to last year with men's and women's performing comparably.
Comp sales were up slightly in U.S.
chain stores but significantly down across international and U.S.
tourist stores in a tough macroeconomic environment in Europe and as we lacked strong sales to year ago.
Cannibalization also had a meaningful impact on international comp store sales.
Total U.S.
sales including DTC were up 1% with the effect of store closures offsetting most of the comp store sales growth of 4% -- comp sales growth of 4%.
International sales for the quarter including DTC were up 42% and total DTC sales were up 40%.
International sales as a share of our overall business reached 30% for the first time.
Foreign currency changes for the quarter were insignificant to sales on a year-over-year basis.
Despite lower than planned -- despite lower sales than planned gross margin erosion of 240 basis points was less than expected at the beginning of the quarter due to modest growth in AUR in a somewhat less promotional environment and a lower quarter-end markdown reserve than anticipated.
A summary of our fiscal quarter operating expenses can be found on Page 6 of the Investor Presentation.
MG&amp;A for the quarter was $116.9 million and up approximately 9% compared to last year.
The increase in MG&amp;A for the quarter was due to increases in marketing expense equity comp and other expense.
Stores and distribution expense for the quarter was $455.7 million and up approximately 14% compared to last year.
Store occupancy costs were approximately $179 million and all other stores and distribution costs represented 30% of sales 230 basis points above the percentage of sales they represented last year including the effect of higher direct-to-consumer expense store payroll and store management expense.
Stores and distribution expense for the quarter included approximately $2 million of accelerated depreciation from our DC consolidation lower than previously anticipated due to an extension in the expected service life of our second DC.
Operating income for the quarter was $6.3 million versus $38.7 million a year ago.
Operating margin fell 390 basis points with expense deleverage of 160 basis points adding to the gross margin erosion.
The tax rate for the quarter was 43% and diluted EPS for the quarter was $0.03 versus $0.28 for the prior-year quarter.
Turning to the balance sheet.
We ended the quarter with total inventory of costs up 44% versus a year ago.
This was higher than planned due to a lower sales trend.
However we continue to expect a significantly moderated rate of growth at the end of the spring season and have adjusted our receipts for the balance of the year to reflect the current sales trend.
During the quarter we repurchased approximately 3.3 million shares at an average cost of around $49 per share bringing our total repurchases to 8.4 million shares in the past 2 years.
We ended the quarter with $321.6 million in cash and equivalents and $37.9 million of current marketable securities.
In addition we have available $349 million under our revolving credit facility and $300 million under our term loan facility.
During the quarter we liquidated $62.4 million of our auction rate securities.
At our board meeting yesterday the board approved the addition of 10 million shares to our share repurchase authorization bringing our total outstanding authorization to 12.9 million shares.
As Mike mentioned we opened one flagship and 7 international Hollister stores during the quarter.
Details of Hollister openings for the quarter are included on Page 10 of the Investor Presentation.
In the U.S.
we closed 5 stores during the quarter.
With a regard to our expectations for the fiscal year based on the first quarter trend we are now planning for mid-single-digit negative likes for the full year comprising of modestly positive same-store sales for U.S.
chain stores and mid-teen negative likes for international and U.S.
tourist stores.
This projection is based on the trend over the last quarter and does not include any further slowing from that trend.
However it also does not include any benefit from lapping of more favorable compares later in the year.
We have revised our non-comp store sales projections consistent with the lower trend for comp stores and now anticipate the sales growth contribution for the year from new stores to be around $500 million.
Our lower sales projection is partially offset by a higher projected gross margin rate and lower expenses.
The higher gross margin rate reflects continued progress on AUC reductions and the fact that a much higher percentage of our commitments is now locked in.
The lower operating income projection for the year is offset by a lower share count at the end of the first quarter.
As a result of which we are leaving our EPS guidance a full year diluted EPS in the range of $3.50 to $3.75 unchanged.
The greatest sensitivity in this projection remains the sales trend.
With regard to the second quarter we expect the gross margin rate to be slightly down versus last year.
We expect modest expense deleverage based on our current sales projection.
Again this is based on the sales trend for the past quarter.
We will report second quarter sales and earnings on Wednesday August 15 2012.
This concludes our prepared comments section of the call and we are now available to take your questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And for our first question we go to Jeff Klinefelter with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Two questions this morning.
One on Europe Mike and Jonathan I'm wondering if you could just give a little bit more color on what you're experiencing recognizing the headwinds the economic headwinds.
Kind of on a sequential basis between Hollister and your flags particularly the key London Milan and any updates on Asia or Tokyo? And then with respect to Hollister specifically it seems like that's really where more of the sequential deterioration has come from.
Could you talk about that? And then how you're viewing traffic trends into the second half of the year for those businesses? And then just a couple housekeeping issues Jonathan tax rate.
Are you forecasting the tax rate from Q1 through the balance of the year in your guidance? And then also inventory units versus dollars.
Jonathan? Maybe I'll start with the last.
Yes the tax rate guidance will be the same as we've given out in February which was slightly below 35% for the full year.
The Q1 rate is just distorted because of the low absolute level of operating income and some of the discrete period items so that isn't reflective of what we would anticipate for the full year.
I think just going back to your question on trends clearly the overall environment in Europe and the trend of our business was tougher in this quarter than it was in the fourth quarter.
Hollister did move from having comped positively to comping negatively.
Having said that we were up against very strong comps in the first couple of quarters of last year.
I think 20%-plus for Hollister Europe although relatively few stores in the comp base so we were fighting against that.
As we said in the guidance for the year we're basically assuming the run rate for the trend in Q1 continues on a full-year basis so we're projecting down mid-single-digit comps for the full year.
As we said that doesn't allow for any potential further deterioration of the trend but it also doesn't allow any benefit for lapping of the sequentially easier compares as we get into the latter part of the year.
Research Division</strong> I guess I'm curious about the -- any changes that you're observing in terms of overall competitive promotional cadence.
You mentioned cannibalization in terms of impacting your comps.
Although you also said that you've been factoring in a lot of these trends in your modeling for new stores I think that's probably the greatest concern that people would have is what is factored in in terms of top line tolerance in stress testing these new stores? So I was just wondering if you could share a little bit about the environment that you're observing and then also what kind of downside protection you have in your model? I think the key point Jeff is as Mike said in his comments when we open new stores we want to be confident that we can hit that 30% 4-wall margin even after allowing for the effective cannibalization of other stores.
So we take that into account when we look at those stores.
And we put a conservative volume on it or one that we believe is conservative.
And as of today as we're opening new stores we're looking at volumes based on the current trend of the business.
So the key point remains that we want to be opening stores that incrementally are delivering a 30% margin on a conservative volume figure.
And as Mike said if you look at the great majority of our stores or certainly if you look at our stores in aggregate in the majority of our stores today they are operating above that 30% 4-wall margin.
We are finding Jeff that we are probably our biggest competitor internally in Europe.
And we go next to Dana Telsey with the Telsey Advisory Group.
By the way I was in the Paris store on Saturday and looks terrific.
And want to just get some more color.
As you think about Europe macro versus cannibalization how do you think about the slicing and dicing of the environment and just the cannibalization? And then also as you think about inventory levels how do you see inventories progressing? And is the inventory is it more U.S.
or international? And just lastly on prices.
I think you were going to adjust prices in Europe.
Have they been adjusted or what do you see there? Okay macro versus cannibalization.
I think the biggest factor in the downtrend in Europe is clearly macro.
Cannibalization would come second and then I think the third issue is the incredible opening rate and the fact that it was -- some of these rates weren't sustainable.
We are as Jonathan said planning cannibalization into our future model and it is a factor.
We are planning the macro environment to stay the way it is.
We're not planning for it to get worse.
But our assumption is that it's going to stay the same for the rest of the year.
You want to talk about inventory levels? Sure.
In terms of inventory Dana we do expect the rate of growth to moderate significantly at the end of Q2.
Part of what you’re seeing at the end of Q1 is essentially a timing effect.
We have a lot of the spring goods sitting there today.
And as we look to the balance of the year we are planning based on that negative mid-single-digit likes assumption in terms of how we're planning inventory through the end of the year.
So we -- on that basis we have reduced receipts over the last couple of months on a full-year basis although that had limited impact on where we were at the end of Q1.
The last part of the question pricing.
In Europe we are slightly above last year for the spring season.
We'll be slightly below for the fall season.
We go next to Lorraine Hutchinson with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to follow up on the gross margin.
It was significantly better than your plan.
I'm just wondering if you could give us a little bit more information how much of that was the competitive environment was better? How much of that was AURs sticking? And what we should expect going forward? Lorraine I think as we said when we came into the quarter we were counting on that sort of aggressive environment we saw in the fourth quarter continuing.
And our AUR assumption was based on that.
In reality as it turned out we were able to do better than that on AUR and get our AUR up in the U.S.
business up a little bit so that helped.
And then in terms of the impact on the quarter-end markdown reserve that effect kind of flowed through into that.
And I think clearly given everything we'd seen in the fourth quarter we had a fairly conservative mindset coming into the season about AUR and gross margin.
For our next question we go to Randy Konik with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> This is Amanda Sigouin on for Randy.
Just a question to follow up on that.
Given the less promotional environment you saw in the first quarter does that change your thinking for the promotional cadence for the balance of this year? And then just a question on the share repurchases that was stepped up nicely in the quarter and obviously you increased the authorization.
Is there any further buyback baked into the outlook now for the $3.50 to $3.75? I'll take the first part of the question.
We are hoping and pushing to raise the AUR for the balance of the year.
On the second part Amanda we don’t count in any further buybacks relative to where we ended in Q1 in terms of what's baked into the guidance.
For our next question we go to Brian Tunick with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> One for Jon and one for Mike.
I guess Jon it sounds like at the beginning of the year we thought you guys cut your guidance from $4.75 down to that $3.50 $3.70 level because of the taking comp guidance down to flat.
And now it sounds like you're taking comps down again but keeping that $3.50 to $3.75.
So just hoping to get a little more color on what the offsets there and is it mostly gross margins? And then if Mike could just comment sort of on how you’re viewing I guess China differently from Japan and what sort of market research you guys have done and sort of what you think will be different from the outcome there.
Brian on the first part gross margin is a significant driver of the offset to the lower sales trend.
A big piece of that is that we now have a much higher confidence level in our AUC reductions for the full year.
We were feeling fairly positive about that back in February but now much of the commitment is locked in and we have continued to make progress in terms of the reductions we're seeing there.
So we feel very good about AUC and now that is substantially locked in for the year at this point.
There's still some open for Christmas.
So that was one piece of it.
Expenses also came down obviously in part as an offset to sales.
And then the share count is lower by several million shares than we'd assumed back at the time of the guidance in February.
So they're really the 3 principal drivers and then the other piece that's having a little bit of an impact is a slightly higher AUR assumption that we had back in February just based on what we've seen in the first quarter.
Let me comment on the second question Brian.
First let me give you a little more color on Japan.
We are doing a lot of business in our Ginza flagship.
Our problem in that flagship is that we made in an effort to get into Japan quickly we made a deal that was not very economic.
In a rational economic deal in that site we'd be making a lot of money.
We understand more about Japan than we have in the past.
There will be Hollister mall stores in Japan.
China is a very huge focus of ours.
And we have been looking at it extensively.
We're off to we think a very good start.
We're as a company really engaged and we've engaged many many people in China to figure this market out.
We -- as I said this morning we think opening the Hong Kong flagship will be very meaningful to China and we are negotiating for a flagship in China for next year.
We're taking this very seriously.
We think there's a lot of business to be done in China.
And for our next question we go to Robin Murchison with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
Can you parse out the U.K.
from Continental Europe if there is a difference in performance? And secondly regarding cannibalization does that suggest anything for forward unit growth in Europe? I don't know that we want to comment on country-by-country performance Jonathan what do you think? I mean I think we haven't seen some of the big discrepancies you've heard other people talking about.
I mean we haven't seen that necessarily same divide between Northern and Southern Europe.
We could probably say that but I’m not sure there's much else we can add on that.
The unit growth? I'm not sure I really understood the question Robin on the cannibalization and on unit growth.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes sorry.
The question gets to if there's cannibalization does that change your thinking at all in terms of unit growth in Europe? Okay.
Well again it all comes back to that 30% 4-wall margin.
And if we could open a store and then net of the effect of cannibalization it could deliver that 30% on a conservative volume assumption we would continue to go ahead.
Based on if you're looking at what's in the plan today we don't foresee the Hollister that having any significant impact on the store count plans.
Most of those stores even after cannibalization are comfortably beating the hurdle rate even with the negative likes we've seen over the past quarter for Hollister.
For A&amp;F we have pulled back in a couple of instances where weren't satisfied that we were going to meet the hurdle rate.
So a little bit of an adjustment there but overall not a major adjustment to the plan.
But we're looking at it.
At this point we're looking at it very hard in a very disciplined way.
We go next to Janet Kloppenburg with JJK Research.
Mike I wondered if you could talk a little bit about any progress you're seeing at the European flagship since you've adjusted the AUCs.
I know you just said that you expect some progress as the year goes by but I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about that mix shift and price points there? And you also said that you felt good about China but given that there's some Hollister stores that have been open for a while I wondered if you could talk a little bit about the performance there vis-a-vis how the initial stores opened in Europe.
That would be an interesting analysis if we could learn more about how they're ramping.
And Jonathan I don't know if you answered Jeff's question about tax rate but maybe you could help us with the tax rate number.
And at the expense line can you maybe help me understand on both the store and operating and the MG&amp;A line whether the rate of increase in expenses will continue to be the same or if it should moderate as we go through the year? And I had one more question just about the operating margin rate of the direct business which seems to be coming down.
Okay let's go through the list.
It's okay.
Pricing in the flagships.
We have adjusted that mix and it's very difficult to tell what that result is candidly.
We think it's the right thing to do in terms of positioning the stores.
But looking at the reductions and the mix it's very difficult to have a direct correlation.
But we think we're doing the right things.
China we're pleased with how we’ve started in China.
I think what we're learning in China is from a real estate perspective we have to treat China the same way we did Europe which is to be in the best centers.
We opened in -- the first China store is in Shanghai.
It is a good store.
It's gaining momentum.
It would be ranked as a good Hollister store anywhere in the world.
We opened in Shenzhen which is the secondary city and we're meeting our plan which wasn't as aggressive as Shanghai.
And we opened our first store in Beijing in a mall where we shouldn't have opened.
And our lesson there is that our first store in Beijing should not have been in a kind of a third rate mall.
So we're optimistic about China.
We're optimistic about all of the brands there.
And I think that's all I have to say about China.
Janet on the other part the tax rate we're saying still slightly below.
We didn't update the guidance we gave you in February which was slightly below 35% for the full year.
On expense what we're saying in the presentation is modest deleverage in Q2 and modest deleverage for the full year so better than what we saw in Q1 but still some deleverage now on a full year basis.
And then in terms of the operating margin on direct I think we'd said on the last earnings call that we anticipate a mid-40s would be a reasonable run rate going forward.
What you have baked into that margin and for the other channels too is still that significant year-over-year costing impact in Q1 which will turn around nicely over the next couple of quarters.
But we still think that mid-40s run rate for direct-to-consumer is about the right ballpark going forward.
So we should look for it to be maintained here right Jonathan around this level? Yes I think we've said -- we'd say that being in the mid-40s on a go-forward basis.
And obviously on a full-year basis there are some quarterly swings in all of the channels.
And what you're seeing for international stores clearly they were below 30% for Q1 but adjusting for the costing effect and the sort of seasonalization that would still put us above 30% on a full year basis.
I think I have one more store for you that's our Hollister store in Hong Kong in Festival Walk is a phenomenal store.
It would be rated up the -- somewhere on the top of our store list.
And we go next to Evren Kopelman with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> It's Maren in for Evren.
Just quickly when we look at the U.S.
stores in terms of the significant comp decline in the tourist stores do you think that's because there's fewer tourists or do you think it's more of a brand issue? A fewer tourists.
And for our next question we go to Omar Saad with the ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to ask you guys as you're looking at the European stores and some of the tourist stores in the U.S.
what kind of information are you seeing and patterns are you seeing with the consumers? Are you seeing a lot of repeat customers and they're buying less or are you seeing less repeat customers? We can still see that there's lines out in front of a lot these stores so there’s still clearly a lot of demand but what is on the margin causing that negative like-for-like in the store? How much of it is traffic and how much of is losing customers? Have you done that kind of level of analysis with the consumers that are flowing through there? It's very -- we do not have that level of detail.
We hope to develop that capability.
And measuring traffic in our flagship stores is really impossible because of the level of traffic.
But we see that traffic is down in those stores and that's what is driving the volume.
We clearly see that in the U.S.
tourist stores.
We go next to Liz Dunn with Macquarie.
Just a point of clarification on the comp guidance for international of mid-teens decline going forward.
Is that a constant-currency comp? Or because just when we do the math it looks like the comp decline in the first quarter in the international stores was a bit sharper than that.
And then my second question relates to real estate decisions.
You talked about some missed steps in Japan and in China.
How are you changing your real estate decision-making process or the team? How are you adjusting so that some of these missed steps don’t happen in the future? Liz just on the first one we report comps on a constant-currency basis and that applies both to what we reported for Q1 and what we're projecting for the full year.
I'm looking to Brian to confirm that? That's correct.
So I think that answers the first part.
Yes but can you break out what the currency hit to the sales or to the comp was? Yes I mean the currency hit is shown.
If you look at -- if you go to Page 5 of our investor presentation the foreign exchange impact was less than 1% year-over-year in the first quarter so it wasn't negative.
And then we -- but we separate that out from the impact of comp store sales.
We should then state it on a constant-currency basis.
The answer to the second part of your question is that we have essentially a new real estate group.
And to be transparent about this obtaining real estate globally is a different matter from obtaining real estate in malls in the United States.
And we had to change our team in terms of levels of experience and actually the amount of oversight that we're giving that part of the business today.
I feel comfortable that we're making the right decisions.
For our next question we go to Kimberly Greenberger with MSB.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Morgan Stanley.
This morning I think Jonathan you said that U.S.
comps are running up 4 I wasn't -- I think I missed the international comp if you could just remind me what that was.
And my question is on the divisional margins.
We saw about a 730 basis point decline in the direct-to-consumer operating income rate.
I'm wondering if you can just help us understand the big drivers behind that? And also I presume that the 580 basis point decline in the international store operating income rate is driven by the negative comp but if there are other factors in there as well I would be interested to hear that.
Okay Kimberly thanks.
On the U.S.
comps what we said was the total retail segment comps including DTC were up 4%.
Though same-store sales we were up 1% and then DTC took it up 4% which we think is the appropriate way to look at it from a U.S.
standpoint.
The overall comp we gave was down 5% is purely same-store sales.
And we don't include DTC in that partly because we think it's problematic to do that in terms of looking at our global DTC business and including all of that in a comp number as we expand our new stores significantly internationally.
But you can kind of do the math and if you added that global DTC growth back to the negative 5% comp you'd be sort of flattish on an overall comp basis if you did include all of that DTC growth.
With regard to the DTC operating income rate I think we touched on that with the answer to Janet's question.
A big piece of it is the sourcing cost impact year-over-year which is affecting all of the channels.
But I think we've also said that the rates we had in 2011 were probably not sustainable anyway and that we anticipate a go-forward rate closer to the mid-40s for direct particularly given some of the investments we're making in the channel which are necessary to drive the continued growth.
And then the third part of the question the decline in international a big piece of that again was the sourcing cost issue year-over-year.
That would have been the biggest single component.
And then some deleveraging of expenses as a result of the negative comps.
Research Division</strong> I'm just wondering why there was so little impact in the U.S.
store.
We saw only about 110 basis points decline in the operating income rate but I would have thought that you would see a similar kind of sourcing cost inflation within each channel but the profit rate in U.S.
stores was much much much closer to last year's.
So I'm just trying to understand the disparity of results by channel if there's an easy explanation that would be great.
Unfortunately there isn't an easy explanation Kimberly.
It's a little bit complicated by the markdown reserve issue which is sort of abnormally -- having an abnormal impact on this quarter.
So essentially the markdown reserve we took at the end of fourth quarter disproportionately benefited the U.S.
stores in Q1 in terms of how that margin is coming through.
I think we've included this analysis and we intend to include it going forward quarter-by-quarter.
I think it is a little bit distorted by that effect in this particular quarter but that effect should go away.
Also it'll be less significant on a full year basis.
We go next to Barbara Wyckoff with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Question for Mike.
Can you talk about women's bottoms and women's bottoms business denim versus color twill silhouettes? How do you see this going forward? How are shorts performing? Talk about skirts and dresses please? Oh Barbara I would love to talk to you about this.
But I really can't.
The women's bottoms business is good.
I don't want to give you forward projections.
The short business is good.
Women's bottoms business is good.
We go next to Paul Lejuez with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
Just wondering if you could share with us and sorry if I missed this the AUR in the U.S.
versus the European business.
Also was wondering what kind of AUC reductions you're looking for just ballpark just wondering if you'll see it down double digits at some point this year.
And also trying to understand the view of gross margins getting a little bit better with the inventory levels up where they are.
I think you said the markdown reserve was lower at the end of the quarter here.
Just wondering what that was if you can share that with us versus last year.
I guess in terms of the AUR Paul we said U.S.
AURs were up slightly and then international AURs a little bit more so the overall AUR was up modestly for the quarter in total.
AUC we'd said on the last earnings call we expect it to be into the double-digit reductions in the back half of the year.
And as we said earlier on we’ve made continued progress on that and that is now substantially locked in so we feel very good about that.
With regard to inventory we’ve -- as we said we've aligned our receipts for the balance of the year to that negative mid-single-digit trend that we've talked about.
So on a full year basis that’s what we're now buying to.
And then in terms of the markdown reserve at the end of Q1 I don't have that number to hand.
It was lower than we'd anticipated coming into the quarter primarily reflecting some of the progress we are making in getting AURs up and continuing to seek to get AURs up but we'll obviously publish that number as part of the Q.
Research Division</strong> It was actually down versus last year the markdown reserve or just relative to your plan? It was down a little to last year's as Brian was saying.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And when you say the -- your inventories lined up to down mid-single digit you're talking inventory dollars correct? Yes in effect.
It's what we're buying to and obviously we’re not buying to minus 5 in total because clearly there is new store sales growth and direct-to-consumer growth.
But in terms of how we build up the buy we start from that negative mid-single-digit comp on a dollar basis.
Research Division</strong> Which means units would be down mid-teens in a comp store basis? No I don’t think we're going to get into the AUR assumption baked into that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just I was talking from a cost prospective if your cost or AUC is going to be down double digits wouldn't that imply that units would be down somewhere in the mid-teens? I'm not sure I'm following your logic.
Research Division</strong> Your mentioning dollars down mid-single-digits on a comp store basis and your average cost per unit are they going to be down double digits? That's what we said for the back half of the year yes.
Research Division</strong> So units would have to be down double digits correct? Whatever that you see based on the units.
I mean I guess what affects the units is the comp trend and the AUR assumption.
And what we're saying is the comp trend we're planning for negative to mid-single digits.
And AUR we just previously said flat for the U.S.
chain business.
We're hoping to make a bit of progress on that as we did in the first quarter.
For international it's a bit of a different story because we’re up in the first half of the year year-over-year.
But as Mike alluded to earlier we would expect that to turn slightly negative for the back half of the year.
So I hope to get you to see really the bearing on...
Research Division</strong> Yes that's right.
It could actually be up a bit now that I'm thinking about it.
Sorry I was just doing the math the wrong way there.
Okay got you.
We go next to Marni Shapiro with The Retail Tracker.
I think the stores look very happy.
So I have a couple of quick questions.
First I want you -- how to trend where the fashion has outpaced what I call more of the core business of T-shirts and sweats and you were sort of chasing into that business I wonder how you feel about your comfort level with keeping up with the fashion there.
It does seem to still be outpacing the core on the sales? And if you can talk just a little bit -- and it feels as well the promotions definitely feel very light this spring compared to what we've seen over the last couple of months and seasons particularly on the fashion side.
And I want to make sure what I'm seeing is right there particularly at Hollister; it feels even lighter than the other stores which has been the more promotional.
And then just one last question on marketing.
If you can just give us an update.
Has anything changed on the marketing side or does it remain focused on the direct business in the part of the channel? Okay first part of the question.
I feel that we continue to make progress in fashion.
So if I'm understanding the question correctly I feel that that business will continue at a good rate in female.
If you were sort of a chase mode on the fashion because it was selling faster trying to get the balance a little better.
Are you feeling good about that? Yes I think Marni that we're always in chase mode for fashion.
And I think that's a good thing.
Yes I agree.
The promotions I think we are less promotional and we anticipate being less.
And from a marketing perspective it is directed to the direct business.
It continues to be.
Is that true in Europe and China as well? Well we don't really market -- our marketing is done in-store.
So we clearly have websites.
I'm not sure I understand the question.
Females for example are a big marketing part for you guys.
Even Facebook here in the United States I'm constantly seeing updates on Facebook from you guys.
Are you doing things like that in Europe and China and Japan? We're getting started Marni.
I mean we're doing a lot more interactive marketing over here.
We are getting started particularly in China now.
But we are a long way away from where we are in the U.S.
The other thing we do in China in particular is focus on those new store openings.
And in Hong Kong we’re making as we mentioned earlier a big push around that opening in terms of creating awareness in Mainland China.
And really look at Facebook to see what happened in London last weekend that's our marketing effort is.
Yes.
And on the mobile side are you guys pushing into the mobile technology at all particularly in Japan and China? Or you'll get there in time? Yes is the answer.
I mean we're working so that all of our online interaction is sort of mobile enabled.
That would apply not just in the U.S.
but also internationally.
And I think we've said in the past that around 20% of our traffic online is already coming through mobile so it's clearly happening.
For our next question we go to Dave Weiner with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> So I just wanted to follow-up on a earlier question about pricing.
I want to make sure I understood the answer.
Basically I was curious I think you said that pricing and I don't know whether this was referring globally or to Europe specifically it was kind of up to modestly in the first half going to be down modestly in the back half.
I guess if you could just confirm that's the case.
And within Europe is there any way you can kind of break that out between Abercrombie and Hollister? Do you kind of need to do that same type of cadence for both brands? The answer is that we were describing Europe.
And I said that we'd be down up slightly in spring and down slightly in fall.
A little more aggressively down in Abercrombie &amp; Fitch than Hollister for the fall season.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And I guess I mean the pricing obviously is a -- seems to be a key lever here where you're trying to gauge it in an economy in Europe that's kind of deteriorating is in a state of flux.
So I mean kind of how do you figure out ahead of time how are you trying to kind of analyze what the appropriate pricing level is? I mean it seems that that's a real challenge especially since your -- many of your brands have relatively short track record versus others there in the malls and whatnot? We look at sales on a weekly basis and we look at trend.
Pricing is an important part of what we do.
But it's -- how do I describe this? I suppose the answer to the question is first our first driver of business is not price in any place in the world.
We drive the business through differentiated store experience through right -- trend-right product and then price is something that follows.
We've never driven the business through price.
And we don't in Europe.
So pricing is a factor.
But as I said to Janet earlier in the session reducing the AURs in the flagships in terms of mix we haven't able to really see a result.
It's a very complex issue but it's not the issue that we're obsessing with.
We're obsessing with right stores right product that’s success.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And so that strategy in Europe would kind of that focus not so much -- that first focus not so much on price that would apply is much to the Hollister stores in the mall as to the flagships? Absolutely absolutely.
We go next to John Kernan with Cowen.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wondered if you could update us on the cadence of store closures domestically both for Abercrombie and Hollister the remainder of this year? John yes.
We've said on the last earnings call 180 approximately between now and 2015.
We haven't given a specific figure for this year yet and there's a lot of water to go under the bridge on that.
We did close 5 stores in the first quarter.
We'll be in a better position to give an update on that as we get later into the year when we start engaging directly with the landlords with regard to plans to renew or close stores but there really isn't anything new relative to what we've said in February at this point.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then maybe I missed this but FX guidance related to the euro for the remainder of the year what's embedded in your assumptions? We've said in February it was about negative $50 million full year effect.
It's a little less than that at this point based on the current rates but they’re pretty close.
So it’s on a full year basis somewhat below negative $50 million from a dollar sales standpoint.
LLC Research Division</strong> So the actual euro rate is embedded in your assumption it's lower? It's pretty close to the current spot rate.
For our next question we go to Roxanne Meyer with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I have a couple of questions for you actually.
One just wanted to know what the sequential progression was in terms of comp performance throughout the quarter.
Second if you could give us a little bit more color about how Hollister performed in the U.S.
relative to how it did internationally? And then within the international landscape any thoughts of separating outperformance of Hollister versus A&amp;F in terms of how they're feeling out the macro weakness and impact? And then last just on cannibalization.
I guess I'm curious to know how you see the endgame for a store like London which continues to feel the pressure from cannibalization.
What is it that's going to get the sales to stabilize and turn it around and maybe even get it to comp positive again at some point? I guess in terms of the sequential trend during the first quarter Roxanne it was complicated by a number of factors including the Easter shift.
There were some weather things going on.
So I think it's tough for us to really add a lot of color to that.
Clearly we've changed the guidance from flat to down mid-single digits based on what we're seeing during the quarter.
And I'm not sure there's a whole lot more detail we can really add.
I'm not sure I fully understood the second part of the question.
Can you still remember it? Research Division</strong> Yes just looking for any color you can provide as to how Hollister performed in the U.S.
versus outside of the U.S.? I guess in the U.S.
A&amp;F versus Hollister A&amp;F was a little stronger in the first quarter relative to where they've been in in the fourth quarter than Hollister.
Research Division</strong> But what about comparing just Hollister to Hollister U.S.
versus internationally and how it's doing? Well I'm not sure that's a terribly meaningful comparison.
I mean I think you've got to look at what they're trending against from prior periods.
We don't really look at it that way.
We look at what's going on in each of the geographies rather than comparing them across geographies and I think it would be tough to draw any conclusions from looking across geographies for any of the brands frankly.
Going to the third point I think the single most important point on London is that it is today still far ahead of the volume we signed up for the store which is linked to hitting that 30% margin.
So even after all of the cannibalization we've seen in London and the negative trend it's still an extremely healthy and profitable store and I think that's the single most important point about London.
And it's true of the other flagships too for the most part.
And for our next question we go to Erika Maschmeyer with Robert W.
Baird.
Blair Minarik for Erika.
Just if you could speak about the environment a little bit.
Given your comments about pushing for AUR increases in the U.S.
for the balance of the year what do you expect other retailers to do with the cost benefits everyone should be seeing in the second half? And how fast could you react should the environment dictate declines in AUR? We are anticipating that we can raise our AURs.
If we find that the competition is lowering prices aggressively and that is affecting our business we can respond very quickly.
Okay.
And then a follow-up on Gilly Hicks.
Is that a sign of acceleration of that strategy and expansion internationally? And then could you talk about those recent store openings? Yes I think everyone should take a look at them because they were a lot of fun last Saturday.
Gilly performed very well in the first quarter on a comp basis.
We are still learning a lot about the brand and the categories.
And within the openings in Europe we have different formats.
So I will not say that this is signaling that we are on our rollout mode with Gilly at this point.
But we're very happy with the progress and continuing to learn a lot about the business.
And ladies and gentlemen due to time constraints this will conclude our question-and-answer session.
And this does conclude our conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect at this time.
Good day and welcome to the Abercrombie &amp; Fitch Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Brian Logan.
Mr.
Logan please go ahead.
Good morning and welcome to our third quarter earnings call.
Earlier today we released our third quarter sales and earnings income statement balance sheet store opening and closing summary and updated financial history.
Please feel free to reference these materials available on our website.
Also available on our website is an investor presentation which we will be referring to in our comments during this call.
This call is being recorded and replay may be accessed through the Internet at abercrombie.com under the Investors section.
Before we begin I remind you that any forward-looking statements we may make today are subject to the Safe Harbor statement found in our SEC filings.
Today's earnings call is scheduled for 1 hour.
Joining me today on the call are Mike Jeffries and Jonathan Ramsden.
We will begin the call with a few remarks from Mike followed by a review of the financial performance for the quarter from Jonathan and me.
After our prepared comments we will be available to take your questions for as long as time permits.
And now to Mike.
Good morning everyone.
The third quarter results we are reporting today include total sales up 9% and diluted earnings per share up 53% versus a year ago.
Our operating margin for the quarter increased to 9.6% from 7.4% a year ago.
These significantly improved financial results reflect progress on several fronts over the past quarter.
Starting with sales.
We saw a sequential trend improvement in same-store sales in both the U.S.
and international businesses.
U.S.
same-store sales increased 2% with chain stores up 6% and flagship and tourist stores down 12%.
Looking at our U.S.
chain stores plus U.S.
direct-to-consumer comparable sales were up 7% on top of growth of 16% in the comparable period last year.
As reflected in the chart in our Investor Presentation this means we have -- now have had positive growth on this key metric for each of the past 11 quarters.
Our overall international business grew 37% for the quarter and we saw sequential comparable store sales improvement in all markets other than the U.K.
where comps were similar to the second quarter.
Elsewhere in Europe bright spots included positive comps in Scandinavia and flat comps in Belgium and Spain.
We are encouraged by our trend in Asia where our first Hong Kong Hollister store has been comping positively since it lapped the initial opening period.
In addition we expect to comp positively in China when the first 3 stores move into the comp phase.
And we have opened well in our first store in South Korea.
International direct-to-consumer sales grew strongly up 31% versus a year ago with Europe particularly strong.
New stores opened during the quarter have performed well.
Coming back to the U.K.
our comp trends there have remained challenged down high 20s for the quarter consistent with the second quarter.
However after adjusting for cannibalization and including direct-to-consumer growth we believe our underlying comparable sales trend was closer to being down by a mid-teen percentage.
In addition our full price selling mix in our U.K.
Hollister stores was better than a year ago.
We believe the sales trend improvement we saw in the quarter is attributable to our inventory flow getting back on track after the issues we talked about in the second quarter.
In addition we have seen some benefit as we have begun to lap the macro-driven declines in our European business a year ago.
Turning to merchandise margin we saw improvement across all segments of our business reflecting a significant tailwind from lower product cost.
Overall we are pleased with these improved results but with the critical fourth quarter still largely ahead of us and significant macroeconomic uncertainties remaining we continue to be cautious in our near-term outlook.
But trust me we are upbeat engaged and highly motivated.
In that context we are continuing to focus on the strategic initiatives we spoke to on our last earnings call and I would like to take a few minutes to speak to each of those.
First with regard to merchandising we are being highly disciplined with regard to our strategy of starting with conservative merchandising plans shortening lead times and increasing the percentage of our open-to-buy reserved or chase current trends.
In addition we have heightened our focus on current street and runway trends.
With regard to inventory productivity we are committed to growing inventory at a slower rate than the rate of sales growth which we did during the third quarter.
Third with regard to insight and intelligence we continue to build this team and now have a presence in Asia and Europe as well as here in the U.S.
With regard to customer engagement more than 750 000 customers have joined our new A&amp;F and Hollister club programs since their launch early in the third quarter.
We also continue to expand our customer contact files growing e-mail addresses by about 1 million and mobile phone numbers by about 500 000 during the quarter.
In addition our new CRM system is now fully integrated enabling us to have a single view of our customer across all channels.
Fifth with regard to expense and AUC we anticipate further like-for-like reductions in average unit costs through the first half of 2013.
With regard to expenses we are undergoing a detailed review of our expense structure and expect to talk more about this in our February earnings call.
As we have said in the past we believe all of these efforts can be meaningful in terms of improving the productivity and profitability of our business both in the U.S.
and internationally.
Our primary focus as a company continues to be on the execution of these initiatives leveraging the proven global appeal of our iconic brands and being judicious in our use of our shareholders' capital.
We expect to continue making good progress.
In terms of our financial results the 4 quarters through the second quarter of this year were challenging reflecting the combined impact of a dramatic spike in commodity costs a sharp deterioration in the macroeconomic environment in Europe and ending up on the wrong side of some merchandise planning decisions we made in the middle of 2011.
We are pleased that the third quarter marked a return to healthy EPS growth and we are hopeful that we will be able to sustain year-over-year EPS growth going forward.
With that I'll hand over to Jonathan.
Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
I'll start with a short summary of our results for the quarter and outlook for the full year and then Brian will go into some additional details.
For the quarter the company's net sales increased 9% to $1.17 billion.
Total U.S.
sales including DTC were approximately flat.
International sales including DTC were up 37%.
And total DTC sales including shipping and handling were up 20%.
Comp store sales were down 3% to last year.
Comp sales were up 2% in U.S.
stores and were down 18% in international stores.
Foreign currency changes for the quarter affected sales growth adversely by approximately 70 basis points versus a year ago.
Gross margin for the quarter improved 240 basis points year-over-year reflecting a significant tailwind from lower product cost as well as an ongoing international mix benefit partially offset by a slight reduction in average unit retail and the adverse FX effect I just referenced.
Overall operating expense as a percent of sales for the quarter was approximately flat to last year driven by the better-than-anticipated sales trend.
Third quarter MG&amp;A included $5 million of marketing costs related to the new CRM and club programs as well as the Hong Kong flagship opening.
The latter primarily oriented towards using the opening to promote brand awareness in Mainland China.
Operating income for the quarter was $112 million versus $80 million a year ago and operating margin increased 220 basis points.
The tax rate for the quarter was 35.5% better than expected due to a greater contribution of profits from our international business.
Diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $0.87 versus $0.57 for the prior year and represented the highest third quarter earnings per share since 2007.
Turning to the balance sheet we ended the quarter with total inventory of cost down 21% versus a year ago which included a significant benefit from lower inventory in-transit.
Excluding inventory in-transit total inventory cost was down 10% and this of course included a significant year-over-year AUC benefit.
We ended the quarter with $350 million in cash and cash equivalents $20 million of current marketable securities and $60 million drawn down under our revolver.
During the quarter we repurchased slightly over 3 million shares bringing our year-to-date repurchases to a total of 6.3 million shares.
We ended the quarter with 79.6 million shares outstanding.
With regard to our expectations for the fourth quarter and full fiscal year we are now projecting full-year diluted EPS of approximately $2.85 to $3 excluding potential fourth quarter impairment charges or other real estate-related charges.
This projection includes an assumption of fourth quarter same stores down by a mid-single digit percentage.
It assumes the fourth quarter gross margin rate will be slightly higher than the year-to-date rate of 62.5% and expense deleverage slightly greater than the year-to-date deleverage.
The projection also assumes a full year tax rate of approximately 37% and a full year diluted weighted average share count of approximately 83.1 million shares.
This does not include the effect of any potential fourth quarter share repurchases.
With regard to real estate plans we now expect to open total of 31 international Hollister stores this year.
In addition we expect to close approximately 55 to 60 domestic stores through natural lease expirations 11 of which were closed earlier in the year.
The remaining store closures are expected to occur primarily at the end of the year.
The Hollister stores we've opened this year will have annualized volumes -- average annualized volumes of around $9 million per store.
We opened A&amp;F flagship stores in Hong Kong and Munich during the quarter the Dublin store since quarter end and will open an Amsterdam store in December.
For 2013 we are planning for approximately 20 international Hollister chain store openings.
We continue to expect capital expenditures in 2012 to be around $360 million and 2013 capital expenditures to be around $200 million.
Estimated preopening costs remain $50 million this year and $30 million next year.
Looking forward we expect to give more guidance on our financial expectations for 2013 and beyond in our next earnings call in February.
This would include expectations around operating margin improvement opportunities from gross margin improvement and expense leverage.
With that I'm going to hand over to Brian to add some more details on our results for the quarter and outlook for the year.
Thanks Jonathan.
As reported third quarter comp store sales were down 3%.
By brand comp store sales were down 4% for Abercrombie &amp; Fitch; 3% for abercrombie kids; and 1% for Hollister.
Across the brands male performed slightly better than female.
The gross margin rate for the second quarter was 62.5% 240 basis points better than last year's third quarter gross profit rate.
Average unit retail was down by a low-single digit.
Average unit retail was down slightly in U.S.
chain stores up slightly in international Hollister chain stores and down double digits in both the U.S.
and international flagship and tourist stores as we anniversary the double-digit increase from a year ago.
The summary of our third quarter operating expense can be found on the slide on Page 6 of the Investor Presentation.
Stores and distribution expense for the quarter was $496.9 million or 42.5% as a percentage of net sales.
Store occupancy costs were approximately $189 million and all other stores and distribution expense represented 26.3% of net sales approximately flat to last year's percentage of net sales.
Stores and distribution expense benefited from lower store preopening costs.
In addition prior year stores and distribution expense included approximately $4 million of accelerated depreciation associated with our DC consolidation.
MG&amp;A for the quarter was $123.4 million versus $107.8 million last year.
The increase in MG&amp;A for the quarter was due to increases in marketing IT incentive compensation-related expenses and other expenses.
The tax rate for the quarter was 35.5% compared to 35.8% in the prior year.
Details of international store openings for the quarter are included on the slide on Page 10 of the Investor Presentation.
At the end of the quarter we operated 295 Abercrombie &amp; Fitch stores 160 abercrombie kids stores 587 Hollister stores and 25 Gilly Hicks stores.
This concludes our prepared comments.
We are now available to take your questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today will come from Anna Andreeva FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could comment a little bit more on international.
Obviously international has been volatile.
What do you think is driving the improvement there? You just called out starting to lap easier comparisons but do you think improvement is more product related lower AUR related maybe you can just comment on that.
And curious also what drove that slight AUR improvement at Hollister during the quarter? I'll start with product.
I think that international stores benefited as did U.S.
stores from flowing new product.
That was really our problem in the second quarter when we were in the defensive posture and did not flow product appropriately.
So I think that played a key role.
Lapping some of the comparisons played a key role.
And AUR improvement was -- we were up against some promotional business that we did not anniversary our AURs were higher.
And at this time we'll take our next question from Paul Lejuez with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Maybe I missed it but usually you put some segment profitability info in the slides.
Can you maybe talk about how that looked U.S.
versus international versus direct? Sure Paul.
It is as you know on Page 7 of the presentation what it shows is U.S.
store margins moved up from 19.3% to 22.9%.
International was slightly down.
That's the deleveraging effect of that negative comp but still north of 30%.
And direct-to-consumer was at 44% so very consistent with our expectation we've given in the past of that remaining in the mid-40s going forward.
Our next question will come from Barbara Wyckoff with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Can you update us on the progress in Hong Kong and China? And then you talked about a strong opening in Seoul presume that's a Hollister store because A&amp;F was supposed to be a flagship for next year but is that on hold now? Okay.
Hold on Barbara and I'll tell you everything you'd like to know.
It is a Hollister in Seoul though I'll just chip in that we've just opened in the IFC Mall which you may be familiar with.
Yes.
So the headline here is that we're optimistic about Asia and because of things that I mentioned more optimistic than we were 3 months ago.
The Pedder Street flagship as you know opened and is off to a very good start.
Festival Walk in Kowloon has remained strong even after opening Hysan and Pedder Street and it remains one of the highest performing Hollister stores and is comping positively.
Hysan Place opened and is one of the highest performing Hollister stores which is similar to Festival Walk.
The 3 Chinese stores are gaining momentum and we expect all of 3 to comp positively.
We believe that the new flagship in Shanghai as well as the Hong Kong flagship will be important to develop brand awareness in China.
Singapore we're doing decent volume.
We're optimistic about Singapore.
Japan nothing new to report.
We're doing good volume but profitability isn't good.
We are looking hard at Japan to enter with the Hollister brand.
South Korea our first store in the IFC Mall is excellent.
So we're very excited about Asia right now.
And on your question about a flagship Barbara yes we're still planning a Seoul flagship in the back half of 2013 A&amp;F.
Next we'll move on to Janet Kloppenburg JJK Research.
Mike I wondered if you could talk about the mid-October flow of product which I think marked a significant improvement in the fashion direction of the assortment.
And maybe if you could talk a little bit about the reaction to that and what you liked or what you could improve on that would help a lot.
Also I think that there's been some upgrades to the store environment if you could talk about to what extent in the chain that has occurred and how much more we might have to look forward to I'd love to learn more about that.
And also Jonathan I was interested in the comment about doing an expense review for the spring season.
And I'm wondering if you think there's an opportunity to bring greater efficiencies to the business.
I think Janet that our merchandise initiatives are taking hold.
And let me just review those.
One we're working to become faster and we're doing that with conservative plans shorter lead times and more dollars open to chase which we have said is 60 to 105 days.
I think that's affecting the fashion content of our inventory.
We're also working hard to be different by brand.
We've invested more in brand-specific design talent.
And just in terms of fashion component we're reacting quickly to runway and street.
And I think all those things are impacting our fashion assortments.
And as I said last time I think we'll see more of that.
We delivered mid-October.
We also had some fashion delivery November week 2.
You'll see more December week 1.
And that kind of rhythm is something that I think is very exciting about the business.
And I think we're seeing that in the business.
In terms of particular fashion that I'm excited about that's working now obviously women's sweaters.
But we'll see more flow more newness on a monthly basis than we have in the past and that's what this is about.
Janet on the expense part of the question I can't give you any more specifics now.
We've taken out a lot of cost from the model over the last few years and as we've discussed in the past our corporate infrastructure here for the home office is lower in terms of headcount than it was 4 years ago.
But having said that we still believe there is some additional opportunity and we're going to be looking very hard at that we already are.
And the question is what is the ROI of each of the component of our expense model and where may there be opportunities to find efficiencies.
So that is something we'll be looking at between now and February on top of what we've already done and we would expect to give some more specifics in the next call.
In regard to the environment we upgrade the environments constantly with new stores and existing stores.
We're not announcing anything dramatic there.
It's just ongoing improvement.
Thanks Janet.
Our next question will come from Marni Shapiro The Retail Tracker.
I'm very excited with some of those things I'm seeing so if you could touch on 2 quick things: Marketing plans and spend versus last year for the fourth quarter.
And Mike if you could just touch again on sort of dovetailing on what Janet was saying you mentioned that you'll start to pay attention to the runway which I'll take that as current fashion and what we're seeing in the store like the [indiscernible] and the lace.
And I guess when you look back at the missteps or the things that you were missing over the last several months is this what really comes out as most important that your customer really likes the fashion and this is what you need to be chasing? And this is all part of the speed to market will all be around this fashion? Okay.
You want to start with marketing plans Jonathan? Sure.
In terms of the marketing expense it will still be up or be up again in Q4 Marni but not by as much as it was up in Q3.
The Q3 increase did include some kind of one-time items related to the launch of the club programs and then a big effort we make around the Hong Kong opening but it will still be up to some degree in Q4 probably all I can tell you on that.
Well let's talk about what I just said about speed to market.
I think -- I want to be clear we've always paid attention to runway and street.
We're spending more time reacting to it more quickly than we ever have.
But that's a natural evolution.
I think to look at this business it's really important for me to restate that what happened to us particularly in the second quarter was that we were -- in first and second quarter we were on the defense because we had too much inventory and we weren't flowing newness.
So that's the biggest change.
We are doing the things that I've been talking about in terms of merchandise initiatives but those are evolutionary.
I think we're flowing faster and better than we ever have but that's an evolutionary process.
And at this time we'll take a question from Steph Wissink Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Just have a couple of questions.
Jonathan if you could talk about your guidance for the mid-single digit decline in comp in the fourth quarter does that reflect anything for the hurricane for Hurricane Sandy and any other detail in the building blocks of that comp? And then Mike just one for you you've got some nice leverage at the store level on the S&amp;D expense.
Is there any opportunity for further reengineering of the store-level cost that you're working on outside of the merchandising initiative? Steph on the first yes the effect of Sandy is baked into that down single-digit comp guidance.
Purely due to effect of store closures including the fact that C4 [ph] will be closed certainly through the balance of the quarter we think the overall sales impact is probably around $10 million just directly from closures and possibly there'll be a little bit more from the side effects of Sandy.
So that is baked into the guidance.
And you asked me to respond to the store expense line.
We are looking at it very hard.
We think there is opportunity.
We believe that there's probably more opportunity in international payroll expense than domestic but we see opportunities in both places.
And let me make a quick note about Hurricane Sandy because it's obviously affected all of our business.
But I really want to state that our absolute first priority has been and will be the safety and well-being of our associates.
And I'd like to take a minute to take this minute to publicly acknowledge all of our associates who have volunteered to assist those who have been affected.
The support has been remarkable and is a testament to the character of our team.
At this time we'll take a question from Lorraine Hutchinson Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Mike you're guiding to a deceleration in the comp in the fourth quarter.
Is that primarily international or domestic? And can you talk about if that's an AUR deceleration or what the factors are behind that guidance? Jonathan? Sure let me comment on that Lorraine.
I mean first of all obviously it's not a dramatic difference to where we were in Q3.
And our projection methodology as you know has been to use the trailing 3 months projection as we've gone through the last few quarters to project for the following quarters so the difference between the down 3 we reported and the down mid-single digits is not very significant Sandy is a piece of that.
But we don't regard it all overall as being a major difference from where we were in Q3.
Dana Telsey with Telsey Advisory Group is next.
Can you talk a little bit about price? Do you see pricing changes any more to go both international and the U.S.? And when you talk about product Mike any updates men's versus women's in terms of what you're seeing? And just lastly the sign-ups for the club members is impressive.
Is there greater -- are using greater sales from those members than just the regular customer? Okay.
The first part of the question was pricing changes.
No I think our AUR is pretty static.
We had decreases in international because we were comping increases but we would anticipate our AURs rising but not during this quarter.
On the second part of the question Dana yes we are starting to see some positive metrics in terms of how club members behave relative to the general customers and we're definitely encouraged by that.
We have 750 000 members through the third quarter.
We anticipate that number continuing to grow through the Christmas season.
And I think if you recall we've always said we hoped to be up in a meaningful scale by the end of the year and we think we're nicely on track to be there.
Our men's business continues to perform better than women's.
I think the key factor in the women's business is women's top business and we're starting to see some traction there.
I mentioned sweaters but also knits are doing well.
So I think that's a big inflection point in the business.
If we can get female tops really really steaming we'll be in good shape.
Jennifer Black with Jennifer Black &amp; Associates has our next question.
Research Division</strong> In talking about the female side of the business it looks like you've -- it looks like there are less logos than on the guys side of the business.
And I'm kind of curious to know how you feel about the logo-ing in the U.S.
versus overseas? And do you see a big difference to reactions both female and male? And then my other question is if you can give us an update on Gilly Hicks and what your long-term goals are there.
And do you envision a rollout at some point? Okay.
Logos are a part of our business domestically and internationally.
It is a business that I think Jennifer we try to contain.
We turn logos extraordinarily well and -- but we don't want to look like a logo store internationally or domestically.
But the answer is we sell logos well both places but our mission is to restrict that as a percent of our inventory in terms of size -- just the size of logo and total as a percent of our inventory.
Gilly Hicks we're very pleased with openings of Gillys in Europe and we see that as a growth potential for the business but we're not talking about rollout yet.
And I have a third answer to your question which I thought you were going to ask Jennifer which you always do.
And that's accessories.
And my answer to you for accessories which you've asked me about for the last 5 years I've had a problem with many accessory candidates categories because of the quality of the business.
I think we now see an accessory business that can be a reflection of the quality of each of the brands.
So we're rather excited about the accessory opportunity.
And at this time we'll move on to Jeff Black with Avondale Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
A couple of questions.
So Jonathan on inventory what drove the difference between the plan for flat and where we ended up with at down 20? I know comps were better but did we also do anything to attack receipts for holiday for example? And any color on where the inventory levels are in the U.S.
versus international? And then just a closer for Mike you talked about pricing and the thinking that might improve the AURs and the international.
So is your thinking that you don't have to again attack AURs like you did in the U.S.
given the Europe recession and that we have some stability on pricing there going forward? Jeff on the first part we have said flat we came in excluding in-transit down 10.
Typically when we guide on inventory we are excluding the in-transit piece because that is -- those are little harder to project out where that's going to be at the end of any given quarter.
So the real delta from what we guided to is that 10 percentage points.
And most of that was driven by the fact that sales clearly came in well above what we projected at the beginning of the quarter.
AUR was slightly lower than what we projected and those 2 effects really account for it.
There really wasn't any significant receipt change during the quarter relative to our expectations.
Let me answer your last question which I think is a good one.
And the answer is unequivocally we are not lowering prices in our non-promo or the European stores.
We don't have to.
It's -- the pricing looks pretty.
The result is very inelastic.
And that's a major part of our profitability which we feel very good about going forward.
Just on your other question Jeff about international versus domestic inventory.
We have tended to probably err on the side of slightly under-allocating inventory to international.
We don't have to make that call until 5 or 6 weeks out from when it reaches the DC.
In addition we do have the ability particularly from the U.S.
to the Netherlands where our European DC is based to send merchandise that way.
It's a little harder to bring it back although we can also do that under certain circumstances.
So we probably have more flexibility than you may be thinking.
It not as if we just make that determination months out and then it just sits there.
We can adjust it as we go forward.
But I think the major point here is that we think we have been under-inventorying Europe.
We have extended that slightly and we're getting paid for it.
And we'll take our next question Randy Konik with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So I have a couple of questions here.
The competitive environment now that your inventories are in line and I think the other team retailers are as well just can we get some comments on what you think about the competitive environment from a pricing standpoint.
Second question I guess Jonathan can we just get what the international comp was during the Q3 last year and then just remind everybody what the upcoming comparisons are for the international comp over the coming 3 quarters? And then lastly when I analyze the model and we look at the stores and distribution expense we're looking at about a 44% of sales ratio for this year versus the trough of 33% what do you think is a more normal kind of level? And then just maybe give us some color of the $2 billion roughly in stores and distribution expense how much is fixed and how much is variable? Those are a lot of questions.
I'll start with the competitive environment.
I think that the U.S.
economies -- the U.S.
is going to be very competitive.
How competitive? I don't know.
It'll be borne out week by week.
We'll see.
The answer to the question is I don't know.
In terms of the comp a year ago Randy I don't have that number to hand of what it was.
I think it's also important to note the evolution of the comp base internationally is very significant.
So it may be less of a meaningful comparison as an aggregate number.
What I can tell you which we said before is that Hollister international was still positive in Q3 of last year in Europe it had stepped down from where it had been from the first half of the year.
And that A&amp;F flagship had turned negative in the third quarter last year but I just don't have to hand where that netted out in total for the international.
I guess coming back to your questions on stores and distribution.
I mean they are kind of detailed to get into.
You referenced 44% versus the trough of 33% for stores and distribution clearly a significant component of that is deleverage from lower productivity relative to the peak in our U.S.
stores and then occupancy costs out of the total stores and distribution bucket most of the occupancy cost is fixed since that's made up largely of fixed rent and depreciation.
There are some variable components of that.
Of the other stores and distribution expense there is also obviously a base element in terms of the store operating cost that is fixed.
There are minimum staffing levels and so on.
I can't really give you a more precise answer than that but we do think there is opportunity in the variable component of that to make some progress over the next couple of quarters.
May I make a comment to a question I don't recall who -- it wasn't a question it was a compliment about the stabilization of our business.
And I'd really like to comment on that because this is an important point.
The notion that our U.S.
business has been in decline is just nonsense.
So that reference to stabilization isn't exactly correct.
Although the U.S.
environment remains tough we've made consistent progress over the past 3 years and the numbers speak for themselves.
And I think that's a really important thing for everyone to look at.
The U.S.
chain stores have had positive comps for 9 of the past 10 quarters; and including DTC positive comps for each of the past 11 quarters.
So I think the stabilization question isn't exactly the right way to put it.
John Morris with Bank of Montréal has a question.
First Jonathan a little bit more color on maybe gross margin progress there.
Tell us a little bit about the markdowns and promotional activity relative to your expectations.
I assume you finished with lower clearance level so if you can give us a little bit of color around that.
And to the extent you can quantify how much the lapping of the cotton the lower cotton cost it helped on the gross margin would we expect continue to see those factors carry through into Q4 which I presume? Sure John.
I think in terms of the first part what we saw in Q3 was we turned through a little more of the spring inventory than we anticipated and that pulled the AUR down slightly because there was a slightly higher clearance component in the domestic business.
So that had a slight impact on gross margin and AUR.
In terms of average unit cost that spring product was typically at the higher cost because it was really for the back to school term that we saw the significant reduction in average unit cost so we were still selling some of that older spring product at the higher cost.
So that benefit was still significant.
We called it out as being the driver of the gross margin rate improvement for the quarter along with an international mix benefit.
We should get a progressively greater average unit cost benefit in the fourth quarter which is why we're projecting the gross margin rate for the fourth quarter to be slightly above the year-to-date rate.
We haven't really been more specific on that in terms of cotton costs or in terms of the specific AUC reduction.
What we have said in the past is that full season receipts in total we expected to be into the double digits in terms of the year-over-year AUC reduction.
So we saw some of that benefit in Q3.
We'll get a more significant benefit from a mix standpoint in Q4 because of the higher proportion of fall merchandise we'll be selling and then we expect as Mike said in the prepared comments that effect to continue through the first half of 2013.
Evren Kopelman with Wells Fargo has our next question.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about the U.S.
chain store closure plans.
You gave us the number for this year.
Looking at the comp performance can you share some thoughts going forward on those plans? And secondly on that point you used to talk about a goal of returning 85% to 90% of your U.S.
store productivity.
What are your thoughts around that now? Evren can you just clarify the first part of your question about the comp effect of store closures I'm not sure I understood your question.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm sorry.
What are the plans after this year for U.S.
chain store closures? Okay.
Well we said 55 to 60 closures this year through natural lease expirations.
We've previously said 180 stores from 2012 through 2015.
That number is still in the ballpark.
We just did another look at that recently and we're still in that range for total additional closures over the 2012 to 2015 period so that would imply another 120 to 130 in 2013 through 2015.
With regard to the U.S.
productivity metric I think one of the points we're making today is that when you look at our -- you have to look at our U.S.
chain business combined with our U.S.
direct-to-consumer business to look at the overall effective productivity of our U.S.
business.
But we clearly have made as Mike said we had 9 quarters out of 10 where we've had positive comps in the U.S.
chain business.
So that productivity has come up.
I don't have the precise percentage to hand today certainly it's still well below peak in terms of the store component of that.
Somewhere in the 80s I think is where we would be.
Our next question will come from Dorothy Lakner Caris &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Wondered if we could come back to lead times.
Clearly you're benefiting from the faster flows of fashions at the store and you've been able to shorten lead times.
I just wonder if you could give us some kind of benchmark where you were previously where you are now and how much more do you think you have to go in terms of shortening those lead times? I don't want to get specific with the dates.
I think we've said we're looking for chase to be 60 to 105 days which is less than our traditional cadence.
But I think that Chase is a popular category.
But it's not without some downside so we have to be careful with how we're doing it.
Because Chase by virtue of it being Chase it's air versus sea which is an increased cost.
We think we can make that up in being more right but there's a risk there.
And we have to be very careful with Chase that we're maintaining and enhancing our quality level because if we don't the whole thing won't work for us because quality is our #1 issue.
So yes we benefited.
We're learning a lot of about it.
But there are things we have to watch out for.
And our next question will come from Brian Tunick with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just following up I guess on that question.
Just trying to figure out on the changing of the product flows and the newness is it more skewed to one of the brands? Is it more A&amp;F versus Hollister? Are you guys thinking about ways to bring in sort of a new customer into your brands and sort of find either someone that's less interested in logos or someone that hasn't shopped the brand in the years? And then the second question is on the flagship side of the business both domestically and internationally.
How much do you guys still think that the issue was cannibalization especially in Europe or do you think sort of the AUR will adjust itself as we move into next year? Let me see if I can respond to you Brian.
Our logo percent to business is declining and it has been purposely so.
So yes we're attracting customers who are not interested in logo or like logo with something else.
And that's been one of our major initiatives.
In terms of the newness more often that will happen more in female than male because of the nature of that business but there's still more new flow in male as well.
Let me look at cannibalization versus AUR.
Jonathan you want to tackle that one? Sure.
Let me jump in.
I think if you look at what's happened in London we've clearly had our most severe comp trend in London.
And yet in absolute terms the A&amp;F London flagship is our most profitable international store.
I think we also have to keep in mind that there's a relative component and then there's an absolute performance component.
But if we look at London I mean there clearly has been cannibalization of other flagships that open there's probably been cannibalization by Hollister but there's also clearly been a macro driven component which we've seen across the U.K.
business.
I think one of the things that make all of these things harder to kind of read is the opening effect in different countries can vary.
Some countries or some stores even we open incredibly strongly and there's this kind of rage at the opening and then that comes off a little bit.
Other countries we -- or other stores we've opened a little more slowly and then they build over time.
So I think in Scandinavia for example we probably didn't have as  strong an opening as we've seen elsewhere and that's now comping nicely.
We're well ahead of plan.
So you do see different dynamics in different markets.
But coming back to the core of your question I think we would say that the trend we've seen in flagships is a combination of macro and cannibalization.
It's difficult to be too precise in terms of how that breaks out.
Cannibalization is becoming less of a factor.
Yes.
And the other point there being that we will see the end of significant cannibalization over the next few quarters as we essentially reach a more mature footprint in Europe and our store openings become first of all fewer in absolute terms in Europe but also focused on some remaining under-penetrated markets rather than in markets where we already have a presence.
And then as we expand further into Asia given the early stage we wouldn't anticipate that cannibalization to be as significant as we've seen in Europe over the past year or so.
Next is Betty Chen with Wedbush.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering Jonathan I think we were talking earlier about the great progress in terms of inventory.
I know you also mentioned earlier in the call that you want to continue to maintain a very conservative stance in terms of inventory management.
Where should we expect inventory to be at the end of Q4 given your guidance for negative mid-single digit comps? That's my first question.
And the second is in terms of expense deleverage it looks like maybe year-to-date expense deleverage has been roughly about 100 basis points.
And you mentioned that we should be looking for it to be a little bit slightly above that for Q4.
Any additional color you can provide on that front? And then lastly my question is for Mike.
In terms of flowing product better and the team being more be more disciplined about looking at current trends where do you think also the mix of fashion what you would consider fashion assortment is versus logo or maybe even more basic assortment and where would you like that to be perhaps by the spring or 2013 time frame? So Betty starting with the inventory piece.
So we were down 10 excluding inventory in-transit at the end of Q3 we would expect to be a little bit further down at the end of Q4 again excluding inventory in-transit.
In terms of expense deleverage yes we said we would expect slightly greater expense deleverage in the fourth quarter than we've seen year-to-date.
There really isn't a single thing I can call out on that.
It's a combination of a few relatively minor factors leading to that overall effect.
So there really isn't any one thing I can call out that would be the primary driver of that.
To answer your question I think this conversation about logo is interesting to me because as I said the logo percentage of our business is dropping.
And I think we probably do less logo business than I'm hearing stated around the table.
We will increase in fashion but that's fashion from core which may or may not include logo.
So the fashion percentage what we're talking about as fashion will increase for the spring season.
At this time we'll take a question from Oliver Chen with Citi.
Research Division</strong> What are you guys thinking with respect to SKU breadth with the increasing popularity of fast fashion it seems like the SKU breadth is quite the trend and a potential opportunity? We agree.
I don't want to get into the specifics.
But it can be a function of a period in time or flow because if you flow fashion more often that will give more SKUs over time.
But you're correct it is an issue and there will be more SKUs because of the increasing number of fashion items.
Next we'll turn to Eric Beder with Brean Capital.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> The new club program where does that -- where do you see that going as you increase the level of knowledge about your customers and as it becomes bigger.
How does that -- how can that be a game changer for you? Well I think Eric the first part of it is obviously we have a lot more data on how our customers are behaving.
We can track their purchases online and in-store.
And that enables us to ultimately be able to segment and then individualize or personalize messaging to those customers.
So that's ultimately where we see it going and we would see that enabling us to become less overtly promotional in the stores because we would be -- as those programs reach critical mass and as a greater proportion of our customers are in those programs we can target messages that are tailored either from a merchandise standpoint or from a promotional standpoint to the history of that particular customer or segment of customers.
So it's not going to be an overnight thing.
It'll be something that we'll continue to evolve towards where we're going to have to make ongoing investments in that with regard to technology.
But we've been talking about this for a long time and we're very excited about the progress we've already made and we're optimistic that this among all those other factors is going to be a meaningful contributor to ongoing growth in profitability and productivity.
Our next question will come from Erika Maschmeyer with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Could you update us on the trailing 12-month volume figure of flagship A&amp;F stores.
I think clearly you said excluding [indiscernible] that you were annualizing around $400 million and $65 million for London.
And then could you give us a sense of how you're thinking about cannibalization in Europe between A&amp;F and Hollister? Have you see that increase as you've opened additional Hollister locations? I guess Erika on the first part I'm not sure there's really a whole lot more detail I can kind of go into.
I mean obviously there's a store by store analysis but I don't think we're in a position we can kind of get into the detail at this point.
In terms of cannibalization in Europe between A&amp;F and Hollister I think as we alluded to a couple of minutes ago it certainly has occurred to some degree we believe.
Measuring that and separating that from macro effect or other effects is difficult.
We have an idea but it's hard to pinpoint specifically what element of cannibalization would be Hollister on A&amp;F versus flagship on flagship or Hollister on Hollister.
Our next question will come from Omar Saad ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Mike I got to ask you about the comment you made on accessories.
I know it's something that you haven't really focused on as much in the past.
Can you give us maybe just a little bit of insight into how you're thinking about it.
What categories within accessories maybe a taste to what your vision might be in the category and what's kind of turned the tables on that one for you? Omar I'd love to give you category by category but I don't think I should.
What has turned the table is that I think we can offer accessories at a quality level that would be good representatives of the brand.
Many accessory categories have been just inexpensive trinkets.
I don't think that's where the accessory business is going.
And you'll start to see rollouts of the accessories in our stores.
As a matter of fact this week you'll see bracelet presentations but reflecting the quality level of each of the brands.
I think it's an exciting opportunity for us.
And that is all the time we have for questions today.
And that does conclude today's conference call.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Abercrombie &amp; Fitch Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Brian Logan.
Mr.
Logan please go ahead.
Good morning and welcome to our fourth quarter earnings call.
Earlier today we released our fourth quarter sales and earnings income statement balance sheet store opening and closing summary and an updated financial history.
Please feel free to reference these materials available on our website.
Also available on our website is an investor presentation which we will be referring to in our comments during this call.
Today's earnings call is being recorded and the replay may be accessed through the Internet at abercrombie.com under the Investors section.
The call is scheduled for 1 hour.
Joining me today are Mike Jeffries and Jonathan Ramsden.
Before we begin I remind you that any forward-looking statements we may make today are subject to the Safe Harbor statement found in our SEC filings.
In addition in our press release this morning we announced that the company has converted to the cost method of accounting for inventory.
We will discuss the background to and impact of this change later in these prepared remarks.
In general our comments for the fourth quarter and full year 2012 results are based on the retail method of accounting to be consistent with the basis on which we gave our guidance coming into the quarter.
Also as a reminder the fiscal 2012 retailer calendar includes a 53rd week and therefore fourth quarter and full year comparable sales are compared to the respective 14-week and 53-week periods ended February 4 2012.
Finally effective with the fourth quarter results we are moving to reporting our primary comparable sales metric inclusive of direct-to-consumer sales.
We believe this change is appropriate now that we have a more established comparable source -- store -- excuse me comparable sales base for our international direct-to-consumer operations.
For comparison purposes we are also continuing to provide comp store sales excluding direct-to-consumer.
We will now begin the call with a few remarks from Mike followed by a review of the financial performance for the quarter from Jonathan and me.
After our prepared comments we will be available to take your questions for as long as time permits.
With that I will turn the call over to Mike.
Good morning everyone.
We are very pleased with our results for the fourth quarter.
Our sales were in line with our guidance coming into the quarter and our earnings exceeded expectations due to a very strong gross margin performance along with continued tight expense control.
Excluding impairment charges our adjusted diluted earnings per share for the year was $3.22 under the retail method.
Total sales for the quarter were up 11%.
Total comparable sales including direct-to-consumer sales were down 1% with the U.S.
flat and international down 3%.
Despite a challenging U.S.
retail environment over the holiday period our core U.S.
chain store plus U.S.
DTC comparable metric remained positive as reflected in the chart in our investor presentation.
Our international comparable sales represented a further sequential improvement in the trend with growth remaining very strong in direct-to-consumer.
This trend improvement was most notable in Hollister where we had positive comp store sales in Scandinavia Belgium Spain Hong Kong and China.
Importantly we saw a significant sequential improvement in our sales trend in the U.K.
despite that economy dipping back into negative growth.
Overall international sales represented 1/3 of our business for the quarter.
If international business in U.S.
stores is included the figure is closer to 40%.
While international comparable sales have been negative for the past several quarters we are encouraged by the improving trend and by the diversification benefits of our increasingly global presence.
Turning to gross margin.
Our strong performance for the quarter reflected a significant year-over-year benefit from lower product cost but also a moderated promotional stance during the high-volume holiday shopping periods and the effect of generally lower levels of clearance inventory.
We also saw a good sell-through in key categories such as outerwear and jeans.
On a full year basis we achieved overall sales growth of 8% and had a third successive year of healthy year-over-year growth in sales and adjusted earnings per share.
We also generated strong free cash flow for the year and ended the year with our balance sheet in great shape after having returned about $380 million to shareholders during the year through share repurchases and dividends.
Beyond the numbers I'm extremely optimistic that we are well positioned to make continued significant progress over the next few years.
Our brands remain incredibly strong and resonate on a global level.
On the front line of our business our stores organization does a world-class job of presenting those brands to the world and running stores like no one else and we are well positioned to reap the benefits from all the investments we have made in systems over the past couple of years including a new merchandise planning system the conversion to cost method for inventory and our DTC investments.
Speaking of DTC our business this year achieved total sales of $700 million versus $290 million just 3 years ago.
We now have an international DTC business doing around $230 million in volume at very high margins and growing rapidly.
We have made great progress on DTC but still see major opportunity ahead of us.
Most importantly our strengths as a company are underpinned by an extremely talented team of associates and our ability as a team to focus on achieving our goals.
But while all of that is unquestionably true it is also true that our profitability is not where it needs to be.
We have made progress in our operating margins over the past couple of years but they are still well below historical levels and that isn't -- is despite the benefit of our highly profitable international business.
So this clearly represents a major opportunity for the company and we believe this opportunity lies in 2 specific areas.
First revisiting our operating model and identifying processes and investments we make in our business that may have had a return at one point in time but no longer do today.
These are complex issues to address.
They involve cross-functional impacts and they involve reexamining things that have become a core part of how we do business.
With regard to this initiative we have established a cross-functional team led by 2 senior leaders and supported by a team of other senior associates with a mandate to perform a detailed review of opportunities to simplify processes to eliminate low value-added components of our model to increase efficiencies and to lower expense.
This initiative is a major corporate priority and we believe there is a very significant opportunity.
We are engaging an outside consulting firm to support us on this project and we expect to have completed the diagnostic phase of the project by the end of the first quarter and be in a position to better quantify the opportunity at that point.
The second initiative relates to average unit retail.
We have launched another cross-functional team to identify ways to increase our AUR particularly in our U.S.
stores and U.S.
DTC.
This team is also being led by a dedicated senior-level leader.
Making progress on AUR will help our gross margins and also contribute to expense leverage.
Overall if we could make meaningful progress on these initiatives we believe it is a realistic goal to drive our operating margin back to at least the low-teens over the next few years.
However no benefit from either of these 2 initiatives is assumed in our outlook for 2013.
Beyond these initiatives our focus remains on the strategic initiatives we outlined back in August of last year with regard to merchandising inventory productivity insight and intelligence customer engagement optimizing expense and AUC and U.S.
store closures.
We believe our merchandising strategies are already paying off in what you have commented that you have seen in our assortments.
This includes increased vendor collaboration to leverage the expertise of our supply chain partners during the product development cycle.
With regard to insight and intelligence we are now engaged in our first global market research study.
Our goal is to better understand our customers' perceptions of us as well as our key competitors.
Geographically the scope includes North America Western Europe and Asia.
Regarding customer engagement more than 1.5 million new customers have joined our club programs since their launch in the third quarter which is in addition to the 3.5 million previously existing customer contacts that we brought into the club who are also eligible to receive member benefits.
Our overall CRM file now contains over 10 million contacts.
From a social media perspective we have also now exceeded the 10 million fan milestone on Facebook for Hollister and for the second year in a row Hollister was a top 5 non-paid trending topic on Twitter during Black Friday.
Through continued focus on our key strategic initiatives including the 2 cross-functional initiatives I discussed a moment ago we are confident that we can drive significant and sustainable improvements in our performance.
Coming back to 2013 while we anticipate a slow first quarter due to a number of top line pressures we anticipate another year of earnings growth in line with our long-term goal of annual EPS growth of 15% or slightly better.
With that I'll hand the call over to Jonathan but I'll be available to take your questions later.
Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
Brian will talk in more detail about the retail-to-cost conversion in a few minutes but I'd like to say that we are very pleased to be making this change.
We believe the cost method better aligns with our focus on realized selling margin.
It is already giving us much better visibility and drill-down capability into our merchandise plans.
The conversion resulted in an increase in diluted EPS for 2011 and a reduction for 2012 which is primarily due to markdowns taken on very high carryover inventory for the end of 2011.
In general on a forward-looking basis we do not expect the change to be significant to reported EPS.
Brian will go into more detail on this in a moment.
Moving on to the numbers.
To reiterate what Mike just said we are very pleased with our results for the quarter.
The company's net sales increased 11% to $1.469 billion.
Total U.S.
sales including DTC increased 1% and international sales including DTC were up 34%.
Total DTC sales including shipping and handling were up 26%.
Including direct-to-consumer comp sales were down 1% to last year comprising comp store sales down 4% and comp DTC sales up 17%.
Within the quarter comparable sales were stronger in November and January.
Gross margin for the quarter under the retail method improved 920 basis points year-over-year reflecting a significant year-over-year benefit from lower product cost and much lower carryover fall inventory.
In addition gross margin benefited from a moderated promotional stance during the high-volume holiday shopping periods and the effect of generally lower levels of clearance inventory.
On an adjusted non-GAAP basis operating expense as a percent of sales for the quarter was approximately 180 basis points higher than last year driven primarily by the deleveraging effect of negative comp store sales higher direct-to-consumer expense and higher MG&amp;A expense including incentive and other compensation expense.
Operating income for the quarter on the retail method and on an adjusted non-GAAP basis was $281 million versus $149 million a year ago and operating margin increased 790 basis points to 19.1%.
Our GAAP results for the quarter included an impairment charge of approximately $7 million related to 17 stores.
All of these stores are domestic stores and excluding one Gilly Hicks store opened 4 years ago or more.
Diluted earnings per share for the quarter under the retail method on an adjusted non-GAAP basis were $2.21 versus $1.12 for the prior year and represented our strongest fourth quarter performance since 2007.
Turning to the balance sheet.
We ended the quarter with total inventory under the retail method down 36% versus a year ago and inventory under the cost method down 37%.
Under both methods we had a significant benefit from lower fall carryover inventory and lower inventory in transit as well as a significant year-over-year AUC benefit.
We ended the quarter with approximately $646 million in cash and cash equivalents.
Including our undrawn credit in term loan facilities this equated to total pro forma liquidity of $1.146 billion as of February 2 2013.
Yesterday we elected to draw down the full $150 million from the term loan and this cash will therefore be available to supplement our operating cash flow in funding our 2013 capital allocation priorities.
For 2012 as a whole we generated approximately $345 million of free cash flow which was net of capital expenditures of $340 million.
We repurchased 7.5 million shares during the year at an average cost under $43 including 1.2 million shares purchased during the fourth quarter.
We ended the quarter with 78.4 million shares outstanding.
With regard to our expectations for fiscal 2013 we are projecting full year diluted EPS of approximately $3.35 to $3.45.
This would represent another year of healthy earnings growth against the restated cost method adjusted EPS of $2.90 for 2012.
This projection includes an assumption of approximately flat overall comp sales including direct-to-consumer with slightly negative comp store sales.
It assumes gross margin rate improvement compared to fiscal 2012 gross margin rate of 62.4% under the cost method somewhat offset by expense deleverage due to negative comp store sales and the higher DTC expense.
The projection also assumes a full year tax rate approximately in line with prior year and a full year diluted weighted average share count of approximately 81.3 million shares which does not include the effect of any potential share repurchases during the year.
With regard to the first quarter of fiscal 2013 we are anticipating some significant headwinds on the top line due to much lower levels of fall carryover inventory compared to last year on top of a difficult macroeconomic environment.
However we anticipate a significant improvement in the gross margin rate.
Based on the above we are projecting a slight loss per diluted share for the quarter versus a restated loss of $0.25 per diluted share for the first quarter of last year.
This projection assumes high-single digit negative comparable sales for the quarter.
We expect comparable sales to improve significantly in the second quarter as the first quarter headwinds that I mentioned a moment ago diminish and we pick up tailwinds as we anniversary inventory flow issues that adversely affected us last year during the second quarter of last year.
With regard to real estate plans for the year we expect to open A&amp;F flagship locations in Seoul and Shanghai as well as approximately 20 international Hollister stores.
These will include our first Hollister store in the Middle East as a result of a now fully executed joint venture agreement with Majid Al Futtaim Fashion.
Our first stores in the region will be in Dubai but we anticipate expansion to Abu Dhabi Kuwait and Qatar in the next couple of years.
In addition during 2013 we will open our first stores in the southern hemisphere in Australia and into Japan with Hollister.
We expect capital expenditures of around $200 million for the year with estimated preopening costs of around $30 million for the year.
During fiscal 2012 we closed 47 stores and we expect to close approximately 40 to 50 U.S.
stores in 2013 primarily through natural lease expirations at the end of the year.
Our capital allocation philosophy remains to be highly disciplined in allocating capital to where it will derive the greatest return on a risk-adjusted basis.
After allocating capital to new stores and other internal projects that provide superior returns we continue to expect to return excess cash to shareholders.
The chart on Page 16 of the investor presentation illustrates our capital allocation for the past several years.
Finally I would like to echo Mike's comments about our optimism coming into 2013.
There will certainly be challenges during the year particularly in the first quarter but we are going to be highly focused on the 2 initiatives Mike talked about and expect that these will lead to sustainable and meaningful improvements in our operating margin and return on invested capital.
We will talk more about this on our next earnings call.
Before handing the call over to Brian I would like to take a moment to welcome a new member of our finance team.
Sanjay Singh has recently joined us from Procter &amp; Gamble where he was most recently the finance director of global beauty care.
In his over 20 years with P&amp;G Sanjay spent much of his time in Asia including roles based in China Japan and Korea.
Among other responsibilities Sanjay will be overseeing our long-term financial and strategic planning process and many of you will likely meet him in that context.
With that I'm going to hand over to Brian to provide some more details on the retail-to-cost conversion and to add some more color on our results for the quarter and fiscal year.
Thanks Jonathan.
I will start by taking a few minutes to discuss the retail-to-cost conversion.
In addition to my comments please refer to the change in method of accounting for inventory Q&amp;A included as an appendix in our investor presentation.
During the fourth quarter we changed our method of accounting for inventory from the retail method to the weighted average cost method.
This was enabled by a systems conversion project that has been underway for some time but which was completed during the quarter.
Under the former retail method a cost-to-retail relationship was established at the item level based upon weighted average cost and initial retail selling price.
When the retail selling price of an item was permanently reduced the company reduced the value of its inventory and recorded a charge to cost of goods sold so as to maintain the already established cost-to-retail relationship.
For example if a permanent markdown was taken to reduce the retail selling price of an item by 10% the book value of inventory on hand would also be reduced by 10% with a corresponding charge to cost of goods sold.
In addition the value of inventory on hand at the end of a reporting period was reduced and charged to cost of goods sold by recording a valuation reserve that represented future anticipated permanent reductions in retail selling price.
Under the cost method the company does not reduce the value of its inventory or recognize any impact of permanent reductions to the retail selling price in cost of goods sold unless the company expects to sell the merchandise below original cost.
In which case the inventory will be reduced to the expected selling price.
Using the same example I gave a moment ago under the cost method inventory book value would not be reduced and there would be no charge to cost of goods sold unless reduction in selling price dropped below cost.
And then inventory value would only be reduced to the new selling price.
As a result of these differences in accounting for permanent markdowns in ending inventory the conversion to the cost method had a number of impacts on the company's financial statements including increasing the value of inventory and creating timing differences in cost of goods sold.
For example in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 EPS under the retail method was $0.30 less than it would have been under the cost method due to elevated levels of markdowns taken on very high fall carryover inventory levels under the retail method.
Conversely in fiscal 2012 we ended the year with much lower carryover inventory levels which required fewer markdowns and a lower markdown reserve than a year ago under the retail method.
This resulted in EPS for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 under the retail method being $0.20 greater than under the cost method.
Had we had normalized carryover levels at the end of fiscal '11 we would have not -- we would not have seen such a significant divergence between the retail and cost method results in fiscal '11 and fiscal 2012.
Additionally operating income among our 3 operating segments U.S.
stores international stores and DTC as well as our other category was impacted by the conversion.
Under the retail method the other category included charges associated with permanent markdowns taken on merchandise held in the distribution centers.
Under the cost method the segment that ultimately sells the merchandise now bears the full cost of inventory markdowns.
This effect is most significant for the DTC segment due to its role in clearing end-of-season inventory.
Refer to Page 12 of the investor presentation for an analysis of the segment level operating performance for fiscals -- fiscal years 2012 and 2011 under the cost method.
The company believes the new methodology is preferable as it better aligns with the company's operational focus on realized selling margin and improves the comparability of our financial results with those of its competitors.
The change was effective as of February 2 2013 and was applied retrospectively to fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010.
The company has included in its release this morning a schedule of restated consolidated statements of income for fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010 along with restated quarterly consolidated statements of income beginning with the first quarter of fiscal 2011.
In connection with this change the company's annual 10-K filing will be reported on the cost method with prior year figures restated accordingly.
The company determined that it would be impractical to restate fiscal years 2009 and prior.
Coming back to the quarter as reported fourth quarter comp sales were down 1% with comp store sales down 4% and comp direct-to-consumer sales up 17%.
By brand comp sales were flat for Abercrombie &amp; Fitch up 4% for abercrombie kids and down 2% for Hollister.
Across the brands male performed better than female.
The gross profit rate for the fourth quarter under the retail method was 65.3% 920 basis points better than last year's fourth quarter gross profit rate reflecting a significant year-over-year benefit from lower product costs and the effect of reduced markdowns in ending inventory from lower levels of clearance inventory.
The gross profit rate for the fourth quarter under the cost method was 63.4% 390 basis points better than last year's restated fourth quarter gross profit rate primarily driven by lower product costs.
Stores and distribution expense for the quarter was 700 -- excuse me was $577 million or 39.3% as a percentage of net sales.
Store and distribution expense for the quarter included charges for impairments of $7.4 million.
Excluding the effect of these charges the stores and distribution expense rate for the quarter was 38.8% compared to 37.7% last year excluding impairment asset write-down store closure and lease exit charges.
The increase in stores and distribution expense rate was primarily the result of deleveraging negative comparable store sales and higher direct-to-consumer expense.
MG&amp;A for the quarter was $122 million versus $112 million last year.
Last year's fourth quarter included $10 million in charges related to legal settlements.
The increase in MG&amp;A expense was due to increases in incentive and other compensation-related expenses marketing IT and other expenses.
We reported other operating income of $13.7 million for the fourth quarter which included income of $4.8 million related to business interruption and insurance recoveries associated with Superstorm Sandy.
Last year we reported other operating expense of $7.6 million for the fourth quarter which included a charge of $13.4 million related to the company's holdings of auction rate securities.
The tax rate for the year was 35.4%.
Details of international Hollister store openings for the quarter are included on Page 20 of the investor presentation.
At the end of the quarter we operated 285 Abercrombie &amp; Fitch stores 150 abercrombie kids stores 589 Hollister stores and 27 Gilly Hicks stores.
This concludes our prepared comments.
We are now available to take your questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today will come from Betty Chen Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering Jonathan if you can talk a little bit or Mike about the guidance for Q1 comps of down high-single digit.
I think you mentioned in your prepared remarks some impact maybe from macro conditions as well as the inventory flow.
Is it also based upon some of the trends you're seeing now in February? And also why we should expect that to increase significantly in the second quarter.
And that would be really helpful.
Let me take a stab at this.
We have come into the first quarter knowing that we have tailwinds primarily from the lack of cold weather inventory that we had on hand last year.
We are anticipating sales losses due to that through the middle of March.
We were also very concerned about the macroeconomic situation coming into the first quarter.
Second quarter we see that we won't have the same problem in terms of liquidating carryover merchandise.
However we also see that we will be in a better position versus last year.
If you'll remember we had a real problem with flowing newness into the stores.
We also think that the cannibalization effect is diminishing in Europe so first quarter is really going to be a margin opportunity.
We believe that for the reasons I just mentioned second quarter we'll see a resumption of healthier sales levels.
Our next question will come from Randy Konik with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Jonathan can you give us a little perspective on just what you saw in the international business during the quarter in terms of maybe traffic or regional perspective and just remind us what were the compares we're going to face up against in international going forward? And then just lastly any update on how you're thinking about from a planning -- what you're working on from a planning and allocation perspective with regards to the inventory? Just it is nice to see that the fall carryover is down.
And should we expect these carryover levels to continue to moderate as we go forward through the year and beyond? Randy sure.
I mean on the first point we saw a sequential improvement in the trend everywhere pretty much in Europe.
I don't think there was any -- there were any exceptions to that.
And we saw the 2-year trend pick up a bit in the stores and obviously we had very strong direct-to-consumer growth so the overall comp for international as we said was down a little bit.
In Europe it was actually slightly better than that given the very strong direct-to-consumer growth we saw in Europe.
In terms of compares we do get more of a tailwind coming into Q2.
We did see a step-down in the international business from Q1 to Q2 of last year so that's one of the tailwinds that will help us from a comp standpoint in Q2.
In terms of inventory levels we expect them to be down year-over-year at the end of Q1 and Q2 on a dollar basis.
We haven't given guidance for the back half of the year at this point.
Next we'll hear from Barbara Wyckoff CLSA.
Research Division</strong> How are the U.S.
stores that don't serve tourists doing now that the other 2 retailers are sort of forging their own identity? And then just as a follow-up can you talk about the learnings in the stores in the various countries in Asia? And then lastly as things have stabilized or starting to stabilize in Europe are there any stores that you would not open today if you could make that decision again? Would you repeat the first part of the question Barbara? I'm a little...
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Of the U.S.
stores that don't serve tourists how are they doing now that your prior direct competitors are sort of dancing to their own thing they've forged their own identity and they're not copying you? Yes.
We call those the promotional stores which have no tourist business and we're pleased with how they're doing.
The trend clearly improved during the year and I think you're right that we are all in kind of different zones.
And those stores in the U.S.
did better than the stores that were tourist-related which relates to the weakness in the international business versus the U.S.
Jonathan do you want to talk about the second part of the question? Sure.
Yes Barbara I think on the second point we've always said there are probably 1 or 2 maybe 3 stores in Europe that if we had our time again we might not open.
Frankly one of the ones we've talked about in the past has had a dramatic improvement over the last few months so I think we wouldn't really include it in that category anymore today.
So there's probably 1 or 2 at this point that we would not have opened if we were doing it over again.
Next we'll hear from Janet Kloppenburg JJK Research.
A couple of questions particularly on the guidance.
I think what you're saying is that your clearance inventory is down significantly so you're orphaning a lot of business because of that.
Perhaps you could talk a little bit about full price selling trends and what you're seeing there and if there's encouragement -- if there are encouraging signs there both domestically and internationally.
Also in the third quarter you gave us a breakdown in the U.S.
of the flagship comp versus the branch comp.
I was wondering Jonathan if you could talk a little bit about that.
And Michael do you think the macroeconomic situation in the United States has worsened from the fourth quarter to the first quarter? And is that affecting -- is that also affecting comps here in the month of February? If you could talk a little bit about February trends that would help because we've been hearing that it's tough this month and I think there's a lot of reasons behind that.
But I'd love to hear more.
Okay.
We can't comment on current quarter business.
We haven't and we won't.
I will comment on regular price selling.
I think we have lots of good news within regular price selling and I believe that we are taking advantage of the merchandise initiatives in terms of more current fashion.
I think you're seeing that in our assortments and you will see it on an ongoing basis.
The floor set that we did this week I thought was new different.
The floor set we're going to do March week 1 is going to be more newness; March week 3 more newness.
So I am encouraged by how new fashion is selling.
Now we can go from there to Jonathan.
Janet on the second part of the question flagship and tourist stores in the U.S.
were -- did comp negatively better than the international rate and they did sequentially improve from Q3 to Q4.
Next is Marni Shapiro The Retail Tracker.
Your stores don't have very much inventory in them at all.
Thinking about throwing a party in one of them.
I was curious about -- dovetailing on what Janet was asking about the new merchandise.
It seems that the inventory you're bringing in of the new product is -- you're not bringing in much of it and it's turning very quickly.
So as we move into March and later in the season is the assumption that you'll increase the percentage -- the buys behind that fashion? Clearly the denim will remain a core part of your buy.
But what I'm seeing is a lot of what you have in fashion that is selling you're buying so few units that it's turning too quickly.
And I'm curious how -- as we march the season how that's going to change.
You are absolutely correct that we're turning it quickly.
We planned on turning it quickly.
We will increase the inventory levels through deeper buys as we proceed through the quarter.
We'll be very happy with where we are from an inventory level perspective in second quarter.
That's one of the reasons for my optimism about second quarter becoming very much better than first quarter.
But your question and your observation is a good one that's really based on the good news which is we're turning through this new fashion very quickly.
Liz Dunn with Macquarie has our next question.
I guess first just a clarification on the guidance.
If you had not made this accounting change would the rate of EPS growth be similar that you're forecasting for 2013? And then also I was just wondering about your decision to draw down on the debt.
Can we assume that that will be used for repurchases? Liz on the first part had we stayed on the retail method we would have expected that the guidance would have been broadly comparable to what we're guiding to on the cost method.
I think part of that is the effect that Brian described in his comments of that benefit we had in the first quarter of 2012 from markdowns that were taken in 2000 -- in the fourth quarter of 2011 on that high fall carryover inventory.
So broadly speaking as we said with normalized inventory levels we would expect that the results on the retail and cost method would not significantly diverge so the guidance would have been broadly similar.
Although obviously it's somewhat academic at this point and it would depend on what assumptions we made about markdown reserves at the end of 2012.
In terms of the decision to draw down on the debt that was part of the arrangement for adjusting the facility.
That will add to the capital we have available for repurchases or for other capital allocation priorities during the year.
Next we'll turn to Lorraine Hutchinson Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> How are you thinking about the long-term store count in Asia? And are there any lessons learned in Europe that you've applied to the rollout over there? Lorraine that's a great question.
It's something we have not yet at this point put a specific external goal on on where we see store count or volume going.
It's something that we are focusing a lot on internally.
We're going through a comprehensive review of our long-term strategic plan which we'll be working on over the next few months.
And as part of that we are doing a very deep dive into Asia.
Now we have a basis there of having opened quite a few stores we're looking at the real estate opportunity productivity levels where we can be with the direct business relative to the stores what marketing efforts we need to support the growth in different markets and it does vary by market.
So we're in the midst of diving into that as well as frankly beyond Asia other parts of the world such as the Middle East the southern hemisphere.
So at this point we're not ready or able to give a specific outlook for Asia but we're getting closer to being able to do that.
I think in terms of lessons applied from Europe clearly Europe has been a huge success for us so I don't think there are a lot of negative lessons we would take out of that.
We'll certainly be conscious of the cannibalization point as we open up in Asia.
I don't think there are any other sort of significant learnings that we would apply.
I think Asia having said all of that is very different to Europe and we need to be mindful of that as we enter into -- in the region.
I think I'd like to add though that we're continuing to gain optimism about Asia and let's just go through the reasons.
In China we're comping positively at Raffles City in Shanghai and MixC in Shenzhen and we expect to comp positively at Galleria in Beijing when it enters the comp phase.
We recently opened our fourth Hollister store in China.
We believe that the Shanghai flagship will be important to the development of the brand the brand awareness in China.
Hong Kong remains a really bright spot.
Festival Walk remains strong even after opening Hysan and Pedder Street and is comping positively.
Festival Walk and Hysan are 2 of our highest performing Hollister stores in the world and in addition Pedder Street is obviously doing major volume.
We're enthusiastic about Korea.
We opened our second Hollister store in Seoul a couple of weeks ago and we're excited about Japan with the introduction of the Hollister brand there.
So we think Asia is currently a major opportunity for us and we're off to a very good start.
Kimberly Greenberger with Morgan Stanley has a question.
Research Division</strong> Mike I'm wondering if you can share some of your strategic thinking behind this change in accounting methodology.
It strikes me that it's not simply just a change in accounting methodology but you're looking to drive different organizational behavior.
And I'm wondering if you can talk about anything you've seen so far.
And what do you think the medium- and long-term financial benefits of this sort of new way of thinking new way of running the organization are likely to be? I'll let Jonathan have a stab at that.
Let me just give a couple of high-level observations on that Kimberly.
I think historically on the retail method our focus was on IMU and our systems were oriented towards IMU.
And to some degree as merchandise moved through the cycle we lost visibility on the original historic cost of the merchandise and therefore had limited visibility on the selling margin.
So given the evolution of our business model given the complexity of our business model and the multiple different channels we operate in and the different economics of those channels a very different story to where we were 4 or 5 years ago being able to focus on selling margin is extremely helpful in how we look at the business across channels and within channels.
And the systems conversion we've gone through gives us much favorability to drill down into the numbers and to understand what's rolling up into the overall plans as opposed to having to have done a lot of that stuff outside the system for the past couple of years while we've been working through this system conversion project.
So high level that's how I would characterize it.
I would reinforce that.
Kimberly it's a way for us to have a better detailed view of the business which is a complicated business today.
I'm thrilled with what I'm seeing in our sessions and I think I have said this what we're uncovering in these sessions looking at the business this way.
Big opportunity.
Our next question will come from Jeff Black with Avondale Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just staying on that topic.
On the -- Mike you mentioned you're looking at processes and investments that had a high return that you're not getting that return out of now.
Can we talk about what are some examples of what that might hit? I mean are you talking on the investment side about store concepts that might not be generating the return you thought? Are you talking about product investments that aren't generating the return or categories? And is that primarily domestic or does that also get to some of the international things you've been doing? Jeff I'd rather not talk about this now because we have as I said a team looking at everything we're doing.
We said and I'll say again we hope to bring more color to this conversation at the end of the quarter.
But speaking to anything now I think would be premature.
Our next question will come from Brian Tunick with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I guess for maybe Mike you had made some comments that you guys are looking for AUR opportunities in the U.S.
And just curious about your comments or thoughts about AURs on the international side of the business what do you think we're going to see over the next year or so from a price point perspective and maybe how that flow through to where you think international margins should come out.
And maybe Jonathan on the capital allocation side can you remind us sort of what's your minimum cash balance sort of view and how the partnership in the Middle East -- maybe how the economics might work for you versus all the company-owned stores that you've opened before? Okay.
Let me go for the first part of the question.
The AURs will over the year increase in the international stores.
We -- and this is going to come through honestly ticketing a little higher in those stores.
I think if we got too low it did not impact the sales it probably impacted the sales negatively.
So we have upside in AUR in the international stores.
We'll start to see the benefit end of second quarter clearly in the fall.
Before I turn it over to Jonathan I'm going to be in Roosevelt Field on Saturday morning if you're going to be around Brian or anybody.
Jonathan? Brian on the second part of the question we've said in the past and it remains the case that we want to have at any given point in time including at the trough of the cycle cash on hand of $350 million so that's our lower guardrail in terms of what's available to fund repurchases or other capital priorities at any given point in time.
In terms of the economics in the Middle East on a four-wall basis we would view the model as being very similar to elsewhere in the world.
Our partner there will be sharing in the capital investment and they will also be taking a return related to the investment they're making in those stores.
Steph Wissink with Piper Jaffray has a question.
Research Division</strong> Mike if you could just share with us a little bit about how you're using or plan to use the CRM database which is quite robust at this point to target your marketing or allocate your merchandise and even some of the things that you've mentioned around AURs.
If you could just share with us a little bit of your intentions there.
Jonathan? Sure.
Steph well the good news at this point we have a robust amount of data in the database a lot of customer information.
The next step as we've described in the past is to start leveraging that in terms of how we segment and ultimately personalize messaging to different groups of consumers.
So we're getting closer to being able to make that a reality.
We've talked about it for a fairly long period of time as we've built up the programs.
But with the back office system developments and the number of customers we now have in the database that's much closer to being a reality.
The other things we continue to look at is the overall content of the clubs and the programs how we increase the front-end engagement with the customers to make sure we keep the numbers growing in those clubs and they continue to be active participants in the clubs.
Our next question will come from Dana Telsey Telsey Advisory Group.
Product flow improvement and speed to market certainly is going to factor in your improved performance.
Where are you relative to the goal? And does it differ by channel? Does it differ by men's or women's? Or does it differ by domestic and international? Domestic and international would be the same.
It is more important in female than in male.
We are cautious about how much we're increasing our chase component of speed to market because there -- as I've said there's some downside to chase.
But I think it's most apparent in the female portion of our business across the brands.
John Kernan with Cowen is next.
LLC Research Division</strong> It looked like the -- a little bit of a follow-up to Brian Tunic's question.
It looked like the international four-wall margin was down about 600 basis points year-over-year.
The domestic four-wall margin was up year-over-year for the full fiscal year.
What is embedded in your guidance in terms of those 2 the change in the four-wall margin both internationally and domestically in 2013? John in terms of the international margins I mean we continue to expect that they are going to remain at 30% or greater which they were on both the retail and cost methods for 2012.
We would expect to continue to make some progress on the U.S.
store margins.
And DTC we would expect to remain now on the restated cost method in that kind of high-30s range in terms of an overall segment margin.
Lindsay Drucker Mann with Goldman Sachs has a question.
Research Division</strong> So Jonathan I was hoping you could give some detail on what your AUCs -- as it relates to gross margin what your AUCs were in the period and also your AURs and then what your outlook is for AUC specifically in the first and second quarter.
And then just on the inventory point maybe you could help us kind of understand how much money perhaps you left on the table by the inventory being so thin in the period.
Any metrics you can give as far as what your average inventory was during holiday versus the normal run rate or any other way for us to quantify the impact of that? Okay.
I'll try to get through as much of that as I can Lindsay.
AUC during the fourth quarter was down in the mid-teens range.
That was something we'd indicated I think coming into the quarter.
It was broadly where we expected it to be.
That's broadly in line with where we're going to be for Q1.
We would still expect AUC to be down year-over-year in Q2.
The question about how many dollars left on the table due to thin inventory levels that's a really tough question to answer.
I think we are very happy with how we margined out during the quarter.
Clearly we had a very substantial rate -- gross margin rate improvement on both the retail and the cost methods.
I think we're happy with that.
We're happy that we were able to be more promotion -- be less promotional.
So I'm not sure if we were doing it all over again we would have chosen to approach it any differently quite frankly.
Average inventory versus holiday run rates I'm not sure that's something we can really get into frankly.
Our next question will come from Erika Maschmeyer Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on your kind of early gut instincts on AUR and where you expect to be able to increase that in the U.S.
And then I know last year you had tried to get it a bit higher internationally.
How do you think you will go about it differently this time? And then just one quick clarification.
Does your Q1 comp guidance include DTC? Instincts on AUR again I'd really not like to get into detail because we have a wonderful team really investigating this.
But we see that just low-hanging fruit our new systems will enable us to be pricing better by segment by tier.
There's an opportunity immediate opportunity to how we are tiering fashion versus core by tier.
There are lots of opportunities here.
But again let's save this conversation until this team comes up with its conclusions.
And Erika yes the Q1 guidance is total comparable sales.
Next is Adrienne Tennant Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Mike so the spring trend it seems like you're spot on there.
I was wondering what -- you had said something about deeper buys entering the second quarter.
And I was just wondering if you meant more choice count on breadth or deeper key items.
And then secondarily Jonathan just so I understand this accounting change it sounds like when markdowns are high retail understates earnings; when they're lower the retail method overstates the earnings.
So this year it would seem that the cost method would understate the earnings.
And I'm just wondering when do we sort of normalize that and get that back so that overall earnings power of the company remains the same.
So sorry if I'm not understanding that correctly.
Let me respond to the first part of the question.
I think Marni got that exactly right we need deeper buys not more breadth and you'll see that in second quarter.
Jonathan? Adrienne on the second point in terms of normalizing going forward as we said earlier if we have normalized inventory levels at the beginning of a period and end of a period there shouldn't be a significant divergence between the retail and cost methods.
So assuming at the end of 2013 our inventory levels are normal then the EPS we would deliver under the cost method would not be significantly different to what we would have delivered under the retail method is the short answer.
I think we're anticipating there were going to be quite a few questions around this and certainly we'll be happy to talk to people one-on-one as we work through today and early next week in terms of follow-up calls.
But that's probably the headline that's most helpful.
Our final question today will come from Anna Andreeva with FBR.
Research Division</strong> Just Jonathan to double check is there any impact from the change in accounting in the first quarter? Just trying to understand if there's any of that headwind to get to your guidance for a slight loss.
And I'm not sure if I missed this but what were the four-wall returns internationally in the 4Q? I think you gave us the year on the cost basis but what was it on the retail basis in the fourth quarter? On the cost method the international four-wall was 33.8% in Q4.
We're checking the retail figure.
Importantly the methodology we've changed to now includes all third-party selloff of excess merchandise in those margins.
So that's actually a slightly more conservative way of presenting those international margins but we think it's comparable with the U.S.
stores.
If you look at Q1 if you go to the very end of our investor presentation and you look at the restated cost method data for 2012 you'll see that first of all overall our restated cost method basis EPS for 2012 Q1 was a loss of $0.25.
And if you look at Q1 by segment you'll see for example that U.S.
stores had a 7.9% four-wall margin in the first quarter of '12 which is obviously very low.
And that reflected the fact that in the first quarter of last year we were selling a lot of fall carryover merchandise at significant markdowns.
The AURs were not always all that low because a lot of it was outerwear for example but the margin we were making on that carryover was extremely low.
And therefore when you restate Q1 on the cost method the earnings per share goes down significantly from where it had been on the retail method.
So relative to that Q1 restated loss of $0.25 we're anticipating significant year-over-year progress in EPS to come up with that slight loss in Q1 of 2013.
On the retail method in Q4 of last year the international margin would have been in the range of 33% to 34% -- sorry 37% sorry I read off the wrong number there versus the 34% that we're reporting on a restated cost method basis.
And that does conclude our question-and-answer session.
I will now turn the call back over to our host for any closing or additional remarks.
I think that's it.
Thank you.
Thank you everyone.
And that does conclude today's conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Abercrombie &amp; Fitch First Quarter 2013 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Brian Logan.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and welcome to our first quarter earnings call.
Earlier today we released our first quarter sales and earnings income statement balance sheet store opening and closing summary and an updated financial history.
Please feel free to reference these materials available on our website.
Also available on our website is an investor presentation which we will be referring to in our comments during this call.
Today's earnings call is being recorded and the replay may be accessed through the Internet at abercrombie.com under the Investors section.
The call is scheduled for one hour.
Joining me today are Mike Jeffries and Jonathan Ramsden.
Before we begin I remind you that any forward-looking statements we may make today are subject to the Safe Harbor statement found on our SEC filings.
In addition due to the 53rd week in fiscal 2012 -- at the fiscal 2012 retail year first quarter comparable sales are compared to the 13-week period ended May 5 2012.
Also as a reminder the company changed its method of accounting for inventory to the cost method effective February 2 2013.
As a result prior year figures have been restated to reflect the change in accounting method.
We will now begin the call with a few remarks from Mike followed by a review of the financial performance for the quarter from Jonathan and me.
And after our prepared comments we will be available to take your questions for as long as time permits.
With that I will turn the call over to Mike.
Good morning everyone.
Our results for the first quarter reflect a $0.16 improvement in earnings per share versus last year including better-than-expected gross margin rate improvement and tight expense management.
The first quarter proved to be more difficult than expected on the top line due to more significant inventory shortage issues than anticipated which were added to by external pressures.
However as we moved through the quarter our inventory position progressively improved and our comp sales trends improved accordingly.
With the inventory headwinds largely behind us we expect to see continued sequential improvement in the second quarter.
For the quarter as a whole we believe inventory accounted for approximately 10% of the comp sales decline due to both lower levels of fall carryover and delays in spring deliveries.
Beyond that it is clear that the environment in Europe became more difficult again and first quarter weather issues have been well documented in both the U.S.
and Europe.
With that said we are taking a modestly more cautious top line view for the remainder of this year.
Going forward we continue to see significant upside particularly from our cross-functional initiatives.
As you know one of our initiatives is focused on profit improvement through a detailed review of our existing operational processes.
The initiative is being led internally but supported by an outside consulting firm and is divided into 7 work streams covering: general non-merchandise expense marketing supply chain merchandise planning and allocation home office store operations and real estate and construction.
We've completed the diagnostic phase for most of the work streams.
In the case of general non-merchandise expense and marketing work streams which represent approximately 30% of the total addressable spend we have identified an annual savings opportunity of $35 million to $55 million.
We are now moving on to the implementation phase for these 2 work streams and expect this to take approximately 6 to 12 months to complete with any benefit recognized this year likely to be modest.
With regard to the supply chain home office and store operations work streams we have completed the diagnostic phase but still need to validate the process-driven savings opportunities through testing and further analysis.
We expect to complete this phase by the end of the second quarter and we'll be able to better quantify the potential savings opportunity at that time.
However we expect these to be substantial.
For the remaining work streams we are still in the diagnostic phase but have made excellent progress.
We will provide an update in our next earnings call.
Next under our cross-functional AUR optimization initiative we have identified a number of specific opportunities to date that we anticipate will yield a meaningful gross margin benefit on an annualized basis.
We expect to implement these opportunities by the back half of the year and would expect to begin realizing some benefit within the year.
Again this initiative is ongoing and we expect the  benefits to grow as we work through other identified areas of opportunity.
As said on our last earnings call these initiatives are complex and require a high level of cross-functional engagement and analysis.
It will also take some time to fully realize the benefits.
However we are very pleased with the progress we have made to date and continue to regard these initiatives as areas of major opportunity for the company.
Beyond these 2 strategic initiatives we are also working on a comprehensive update of our long-term strategic plans taking into account all of the initiatives I mentioned a moment ago and revisiting growth and margin opportunities by channel.
A key component of this is our first global market research study that was completed during the quarter.
We are excited and energized by all of these initiatives and look forward to sharing more details as we move through the year.
As Jonathan will discuss in a moment we are taking our overall guidance down for the year but we remain very confident that our strategic initiatives will lead to a significant and sustainable improvement in our financial results.
In tackling these opportunities we are extremely fortunate to have an incredibly talented group of associates a very strong team-based culture and an outstanding group of partners in our supply chain network and beyond.
I'm extremely proud of this team and want to take this opportunity to thank them for their hard work and dedication and for their commitment to our values.
With that I will hand the call over to Jonathan but I'll be available to take your questions later in the call.
Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
For the quarter the company's net sales were down 9% to $839 million.
Total U.S.
sales including DTC were down 17%.
International sales including DTC were up 10%.
And total DTC sales including shipping and handling were down 10%.
Including direct-to-consumer comp sales are down 15% with U.S.
down 14% and international down 16%.
First quarter sales came in below expectations while we anticipated top line headwinds from low inventory levels particularly for carryover.
Sales were also impacted by delays in spring deliveries through the quarter.
In addition the macroenvironment in Europe became more difficult again and weather was cooler than expected in both the U.S.
and Europe and in particular compared to last year.
Despite those challenges we were pleased to be able to sustain strong positive comps in a number of markets most notably China.
In addition new store openings during the quarter performed well.
Gross margin for the quarter improved 720 basis points year-over-year better than expected reflecting a significant mix benefit associated with selling a higher proportion of current season inventory and a continued tailwind from lower product costs.
So while sales were down 9% gross profit was up 2%.
Operating expense for the quarter was $567 million down from $570 million last year.
Overall expenses for the quarter came in significantly below projection as we flexed down expense in reaction to the lower sales trend in areas such as store payroll repairs and maintenance travel and other expense as well as having lower incentive compensation expense.
With regard to equity incentive compensation we are pleased to have made changes to our plans this year which will further enhance the alignment of these plans with shareholder interests and best practices.
First we have moved to an annual cash incentive compensation plan versus the biannual plan we've had in the past.
Second we have significantly increased the performance-based component of our annual equity awards with all eligible associates at the VP level and above now having an element of their equity awards tied to the achievement of EPS goals.
Moving on the operating loss for the quarter was $14 million versus an operating loss of $29 million the year ago.
Operating margin improved 140 basis points as gross margin expansion more than offset expense deleverage.
This was particularly the case for the direct-to-consumer operating segment where operating margin increased close to 1 200 basis points including the effect of a significant merchandise mix benefit.
And while our international store operating margin was adversely affected by expense deleverage we expect to achieve around a 30% operating margin on a full year basis.
The tax rate for the quarter was a benefit of 53.7% including a net gain resulting primarily from the settlement of certain state tax audits.
On a full-year basis we now expect a tax rate of around 33% to 34%.
For the quarter the company reported a $0.09 loss per basic and diluted share versus a $0.25 loss per basic and diluted share last year.
Turning to the balance sheet.
We ended the quarter with total inventory down 23% versus a year ago with inventory units down slightly less.
As a reminder we had excess inventory a year ago and on a 2-year basis inventory is still up modestly.
We ended the quarter with approximately $556 million in cash and cash equivalents.
And borrowings under our term loan of approximately $146 million.
During the quarter we repurchased approximately 350 000 shares at an average cost of under $47.
With regard to our expectations for fiscal 2013 we are taking a modestly more cautious top line view for the remainder of the year and are now projecting full year diluted EPS in the range of $3.15 to $3.25.
This projection includes an assumption of slightly negative overall comp sales including direct-to-consumer for the balance of the year.
With regard to the second quarter of fiscal 2013 we expect diluted earnings per share in the range of $0.28 to $0.33.
Guidance for all periods does not include the effect of any additional share repurchases benefits from our process efficiency and AUR initiatives or the impact of potential impairment and store closure charges.
Also due to the calendar shift from the 53rd week in fiscal 2012 the comparable prior year 13-week period ended August 4 2012 included approximately $40 million in additional sales versus the reported 13-week period ended July 28 2012 which provides a benefit to year-over-year sales and earnings.
We continue to expect capital expenditures of around $200 million for the year with estimated preopening costs of around $30 million.
With regard to real estate plans for the year we continue to expect to open A&amp;F flagship locations in Seoul and Shanghai as well as approximately 20 international Hollister chain stores.
In addition we will open a small number of international outlet stores.
We continue to expect to close approximately 40 to 50 stores in the U.S.
in 2013 through natural lease expirations at the end of the year.
Finally I would like to echo Mike's comments about our optimism regarding our cross-functional initiatives and that we expect that these will lead to sustainable and meaningful improvements in our operating margin and return on invested capital.
We will continue to talk more about this on our next earnings call.
With that I'll hand over to Brian to provide some more details on our results for the quarter.
Thanks Jonathan.
As reported first quarter comp sales were down 15% with comparable store sales decreasing 17% and comparable direct-to-consumer sales decreasing 6%.
By brand comp sales including direct-to-consumer were down 13% for Abercrombie &amp; Fitch; down 5% for abercrombie kids; and down 18% for Hollister.
Within the quarter comparable sales were weakest in February and March.
Across the brand male performed better than female.
Changes in foreign currency exchange rates versus a year ago adversely affected sales by approximately $5 million.
The effect of the calendar shift due to 53rd week in fiscal 2012 was not significant to sales.
The gross profit rate for the first quarter was 65.9% 720 basis points better than last year's first quarter gross profit rate reflecting a significant mix benefit associated with selling a higher proportion of current season merchandise and a significant tailwind from lower product costs.
Stores and distribution expense for the quarter was $449 million or 53.5% of sales compared to $456 million or 49.5% of sales last year.
Expense savings and store payroll repairs and maintenance and other stores and distribution expense were more than offset by the delevered effect of negative comparable sales.
MG&amp;A for the quarter was $119 million versus $117 million last year.
Increases in IT-related expense and outside services were partially offset by decreases in incentive compensation and other compensation-related expense.
Details of international Hollister store openings for the quarter are included on Page 10 of the Investor Presentation.
At the end of the quarter we operated 283 Abercrombie &amp; Fitch stores 149 abercrombie kids stores 593 Hollister stores and 28 Gilly Hicks stores.
This concludes our prepared comments.
We are now available to take your questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today will come from Kimberly Greenberger Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> This is Jay Sole on for Kimberly.
Just a question.
First of all just trying to understand the connection between the lower inventory the comp at Hollister and the gross margin.
It sounds like was it really a factor -- you mean to say lower fall clearance inventory -- or fall carryover.
Does that mean lower clearance inventory? And really you need that clearance inventory to drive the comp at Hollister which is why the comp at Hollister was low and that's why gross margin was high.
Is that an accurate statement? Broadly yes...
Yes.
Yes.
I think that's right on.
Research Division</strong> So now does that imply for 2Q when you're talking about the guidance of $0.28 to $0.33.
Are you saying you'll have more clearance inventory at Hollister? And so we should expect the comp to be better and gross margin to be lower versus 1Q? Well Jay.
It's partly a function of what we were lapping in Q1.
Because if you recall at the end of 2011 we had that very significant fall carryover that we then turned through in Q1 of '12.
So when we were lapping that this year we had a much less of that fall carryover inventory.
Going into Q2 the situation's a little more normalized although we did have some excess inventory of the equivalent point last year.
But we think that's a much less significant effect in Q2 than it was in Q1.
[Operator Instructions] Next we'll hear from Betty Chen.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering Michael or maybe Jonathan you could give us a bit more clarity regarding the top line assumption.
It sounds like in the first quarter April was the strongest and you clearly saw sequential improvement.
I would imagine with weather getting better in May that that has continued.
So I was curious sort of the thinking behind comps being slightly down Q2 through Q4.
Is that really related to inventory or Europe? Or any color you can give us will be really helpful.
Yes Betty.
I mean I think going back to Mike's comments in the script we referenced that 10 percentage points of the negative 15 comp was attributable to inventory.
Coming into the quarter we projected as you recall some down high single digit comps which was primarily driven by that lower fall inventory.
And then as we went through the quarter the spring inventory issues added to that.
So we believe as we said that those inventory headwinds are substantially behind us so that element of the comp goes away.
And then we're certainly seeing our DTC business pickup again nicely.
So that's a big factor.
And then as we look to the second quarter that was a more favorable compare than the first quarter as well.
Our next question will come from Adrienne Tennant Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> So my question is on the fashion items.
They very much look on trend.
And so I was wondering obviously there was a spring delivery issue what caused that? Do you deem that you have enough of that fashion component? And then for back-to-school is that remedied? Are there any other categories that will be coming in for back-to-school? Okay.
I'd like to just talk some more about the spring inventory.
We experienced some unanticipated delays in spring due to a couple of factors.
One of which was a function of our transitioning to faster reaction times.
As a result it took a little bit longer than anticipated to flow in some of our spring deliveries.
Also in hindsight I believe that the first quarter spring inventory plan was somewhat low.
And this resulted in many items which did not have the necessary depth to drive the business and I think many of you saw that in the stores.
We feel we're in better inventory position going into second quarter that we have more depth behind key items.
I believe that that's going to get even better for back-to-school and believe it or not superb by Christmas.
Next we will hear from Lorraine Hutchinson Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow-up on the cost-cutting program that you have out there.
You talked about 30% of the spend resulting in $35 million to $55 million.
Was that the area where you saw the most low-hanging fruit? Or could we see the other 70% of the spend resulting in a similar magnitude of savings? I think by definition we're not ready or we said we're not ready to be precise about that.
If you look at the first bucket it is by its nature more discrete items that could be tackled without having significant cross-functional effects.
When you look at the other work streams I think there are 2 observations.
One is they are more complex because they are cross-functional and entail potentially more significant changes in processes.
So they're harder to get at.
In terms of the opportunity it could be proportionate to what we've seen so far.
It could be more it could be less.
I think it depends on the analysis and further insight that we've said we need to work through including some testing.
Our next question will come from Paul Lejuez Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you just talk a little bit about AUR in the first quarter U.S.
versus international? How you see that trending as you look throughout the year? And just to follow-up on Lorraine's question is there any number that you have in your head guys as you invest all this time doing the work from an expense perspective? Is there a number that you're striving towards that we should be thinking about in terms of eventual savings from this program.
Because if you applied that 30% to that -- and looked at the $35 million to $55 million range and you could achieve a similar savings in the rest of the 70% of the buckets we're talking about what seems like above $100 million opportunity.
So I'm just wondering if that's a number that you guys have in your head if you could share that with us.
Paul this is Jonathan.
We certainly do have an idea of the range where we could end up.
I think as we said we're not comfortable putting a specific number out there at this point because we still have to work through a lot of this analysis and testing which we expect to have done over most of the remaining work streams through the balance of this quarter.
So I think we'll be much more comfortable the end of this quarter putting some more specifics around those work streams.
And then there will be a couple of work streams that may take a little longer to work through.
So we do internally have a point of view of where this is headed.
And as we said we do believe it's a substantial opportunity.
With regard to AUR.
Overall AUR was flattish for the quarter with a slight variation between the different channels.
Next is John Morris BMO.
It's actually Janine Stichter [ph] on for John Morris.
Also with regards to your AUR optimization I was just wondering how you were thinking about pricing particularly internationally.
I know you had felt that after you took prices down internationally you might have left some money on the table.
So how are you thinking that just considering the macro backdrop that you mentioned got a little bit tougher in 1Q? Well this is Mike.
We believe there are still some opportunities to take this up modestly in certain markets and categories.
But we'll be very judicious and it'll be driven to a large degree by benchmarking that we do on a market-by-market basis.
The AUR optimization we see as AUR optimization and we believe the majority of the opportunities will come in the way of being smarter and more targeted with promotions and clearance price points.
Our next question will come from Janet Kloppenburg JJK Research.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the trends in April.
Did they improve in both the United States and Europe? And if your top line guidance which I think is what drove the reduction in the annual EPS guidance if you're less optimistic about a turn in the European business? And Jonathan if you could elaborate on the operating margin decline in Europe to help me better understand why -- what happened there and then why you expect it to get better? So I'll start with the last piece Janet.
It's partly a function of just the weighting of the different quarters.
So what we're saying is that the international margin we achieved in the first quarter is consistent with the full year rate of close to 30%.
Europe would be typically running ahead of the overall international segment because that margin's pulled down to some degree by Japan and Canada.
So that's what we're saying.
That's consistent with a full year rate of around 30%.
With regard to the trend in April.
Yes we did see sequential improvement both in the U.S.
and internationally.
Barbara Wyckoff CLSA has a question.
Research Division</strong> Mike the women's business seems to have been weak for a while.
Can you talk about opportunities and challenges in the mix outside of the sort of not having enough of the key items? And just a second quick question.
When is that Sanlitun store open in Beijing? The second part was? Which store Barbara? Research Division</strong> Sanlitun in Beijing.
Sanlitun Village? Sanlitun.
Okay.
Okay.
I'll take both of those.
The primary weakness is and has been this quarter in female tops.
It's primarily in Bare.
And we see that as somewhat weather-related.
Our woven female tops business has been excellent.
The shirt business has been excellent.
The weakness has been in knits.
We are concentrating on that knit business very hard.
We think there's a lot of upside potential in the category so we will be more aggressive with the knit categories as we work our way into back-to-school and Christmas.
I'm happy you talked about China.
That store opens June 29.
But this might be the most -- China might be the most important element of the quarter and here's why.
Our comp store sales in China were up approximately 40% even in a difficult inventory environment which continues to give us optimism about Asia.
In addition our fourth Hollister store in China in Tianjin is performing well.
And we believe the future Shanghai flagship will be important to the development the brand awareness in China.
Second Hong Kong remains strong.
Festival Walk and Hysan are 2 most productive and profitable Hollister stores and Pedder Street is doing well.
Third we're excited about the rest of our opportunities in Asia including opening our first Hollister store in Japan.
Thanks Barbara.
Our next question comes from Tom Filandro Susquehanna Financial Group.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Jonathan when you make the term cross-functional can you kind of talk give us some examples of exactly what that might mean? And I was wondering too on those expense savings buckets.
Is there initially some systems and/or personnel costs that will be associated with them? And Mike I just want to be clear to understand this the spring inventory.
Was that purely a planning issue or was it an issue as you've moved to this more of a chase strategy with vendor partners? Thomas on the first.
We don't-- one simple example.
How we operate the stores is a significant function of how we plan and allocate merchandise so that would be an obvious simple example of what we're talking about by cross-functional and even how our supply chain operates in terms of how we flow merchandise into the stores.
So that's the type of thing that we're talking about in broad terms.
The second part of your question Tom is I believe that both were -- the spring lightness of inventory were plan-oriented in terms of problem.
I think the plan was too low.
And then I think that the flow strategy this chase strategy was probably -- we could have done better at working our way into that.
I think it might've been just a birthing [ph] moment in terms of how we were getting that up and going.
And Tom on the last piece.
Are you asking about onetime type costs? Is that the nature of the question? LLLP Research Division</strong> Yes -- not onetime.
I'm just like to -- when you talk about these expense buckets does that mean you may have incremental expenses related to them initially whether you've got it in personnel or systems to support the longer-term drive down of those expenses? Okay I got you.
No I don't think broadly we are anticipating that.
I think there will be some incremental expense to implement some of these initiatives but it'll be modest very modest relative to the overall savings we're going to be realizing.
Next we'll turn to Matt McClintock Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering if we could focus on the outlets.
You talked about maybe opening some more outlets internationally.
And just wanted to get your updated thoughts on how your strategy for maybe clearing excess goods internationally has evolved over the last several years and into this decision? And then ultimately trying to understand maybe how that could signal maybe profitability improvements in European and Asian markets? We're looking at the stores we've opened we've got 2 of them currently in the U.K.
both doing well.
We're looking at them as primarily as test stores.
We wanted to test the potential for outlets in Europe now that we've been in the region for several years.
So I think it's very early days yet.
The overall outlet strategy including how we're going to clear within Europe will be part of this long-term strategic review that Mike talked about earlier in the prepared remarks that we're anticipating completing in the next couple of months.
Dorothy Lakner Topeka Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I wondered if you could just provide us with a breakdown on the gross margin in the quarter just between higher levels of in-season product.
And then the AUC tailwind just if you could break that down? And then going forward related to that do we still have some tailwind on AUC in this quarter or not? Sure.
The lion's share of the gross margin rate improvement was driven by the mix effect between spring and fall with the average unit cost component for the Q1 being a relatively smaller component.
We expect to continue getting a modest somewhat smaller AUC benefit in Q2.
Next is Brian Tunick JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just wondering I guess in the U.S.
store segment it looked like margins were up in Q1 despite the 15% comp decline.
So I guess we were wondering as the gross margin gains are expected to now normalize what kind of full year margin are you expecting for the U.S.
stores? I guess similar to your comments that you made around the 30% you're expecting for the international.
And all the store closings you guys have gone through the last couple of years beginning to turn the inventory faster now to drive productivity.
How do you bucket the 1 or 2 biggest top and bottom line drivers on the U.S.
store segment? Brian so on the first part we haven't given a specific data point on our long-term objective for U.S.
stores.
We said we want to get it back well up into the 20%s and move it back towards that 30% historic margin with various factors that we've spoken about in the past being part of that including store closures as you alluded to.
This year we'll certainly be close to that 20% mark hopefully a little bit better than that on a full-year basis.
And then your second question was? Could you just recap that? Research Division</strong> You answered that one.
I was going to ask about how in the U.S.
if you could breakout comp any delta between tourists and promotional stores? Was there any big difference there? And then the third one was going to be on the buyback.
We were surprised you guys didn't buy back more stock in the first quarter.
I'm just wondering if there's any reason from a timing perspective from that? So I'll tell you the second part Brian.
We typically come into each quarter we put a 10b5-1 plan in which has various trigger prices.
We put one in before our window closed.
The market moved up pretty significantly.
And that was one of the factors that contributed to us buying less stock than we have been in prior quarters.
But our overall share repurchase philosophy is consistent with what we said in the past.
And we do expect to continue to be repurchasing stock.
The promo versus non-promo.
Promo versus tourist in the U.S.
they were pretty close for the quarter.
We have a question from Oliver Chen Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Regarding the expectation the anticipation of the comps improving.
Is that going to be a more units or AUR-driven if you could help us dimensionalize that.
Then also this past quarter just to be clear when you say there was more spring products sold does that mean merchandise margins were up on a year-over-year basis? So if you could clarify that I'd appreciate it.
I'm not sure I fully understood the question Oliver.
But yes certainly spring merchandise margins the spring-class products were up year-over-year.
And what was the first part of the question again? Research Division</strong> Just how we should think about the comp -- the forecast of the comp? Yes we don't give that out on a forward-looking basis.
Research Division</strong> But do you feel like there's equal opportunity for units and AUR? And as you guys...
We typically don't break that out on a forward-looking basis.
Research Division</strong> But the improvement in execution on the inventory side should give you access to more units is that the right way to think about it? I think as Mike said earlier we feel pretty good about our current inventory position.
And we think we're going to be in a very good position by back-to-school.
But most of those inventory headwinds we had are behind us so we feel we're pretty close to having the right levels of inventory today and that means that our normal flow cycle should work as we would plan for them to do.
Our next question will come from Randy Konik with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So just quick one.
Just on the -- just back on the inventory because we've seen in the past the inventory either be very very high or very very low here.
So just very simply what can we take and give the market confidence that that inventory will be in a good place for the balance of the year and into 2014? And then next I know we've talked a lot about the potential expense savings.
It sounds like the 2014 calendar-type event for the numbers.
Just regarding I guess cash flow then would you think about the CapEx guidance you gave for this year being about I think $200 million.
Is that something like what we should be thinking about from an ongoing perspective that the capital -- the CapEx of the business being more closer to this type of number over the next few years coupled with these new SG&amp;A kind of expense cuts being sustainable over a multi-year period? And then lastly does the guidance that you gave on the conference call does that incorporate FX headwinds or anything like that? Randy I'll take a couple of those to start off with the CapEx will in part be a function of this long-term strategic review we're doing and that's going to inform us in terms of the strategy on store openings and different channels going forward.
So I think at this point it's a little premature to be projecting a specific run rate.
Although we would certainly expect $200 million that we're going to be at this year to be the starting point.
But I think it's too early to say beyond that what the likely ongoing run rate is going to be.
The benefit of the expense saves absolutely we view that as being primarily a 2014 event with possibly some modest benefit flowing in the back-end of this year but primarily 2014.
Question about incorporating FX headwinds.
We -- our projection is generally based on the current spot rate.
So the projection that lies behind that guidance would reflect the prevailing rates today and to the extent those rates move materially then that would impact the guidance going forward.
I think you had one other question...
Inventory.
About inventory levels going forward.
We plan the levels of inventory that we think are appropriate to the sales trajectory of the business.
And if we are disciplined  about doing that then we would expect those inventory levels to remain consistent with where we've been the past couple of quarters in terms of types of turns we're seeing.
And we have as you know also said that our objective is to continue to get some efficiency out of inventory going forward.
Next is Edward Yruma KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> You highlighted the move to cost accounting.
I believe it was last quarter you talked about some of the systems that enabled that.
I guess have there been any learnings either in terms of visibility into selling margin or things that you can do differently going forward as a result of some of the systems upgrades? Yes.
Ed I think we have alluded to that in the past in terms of the better day-to-day visibility gives us in terms of reading the business the margin we're making by channel by class of inventory which the old retail system tended to obscure as units went through their life.
So I think particularly when we look at the impact of clearance selling how we would optimize gross margin relative to sales it's much more helpful to have cost basis information than the old retail method information.
So that would be one higher level of example.
And then if you look at this quarter clearly we did very well on the gross margin rate despite the negative comp.
And if you look at where we made our gross margin between spring and fall that gives us some very interesting insight as to how we're going to be able to drive the bottom line going forward.
I do have to add though that it is a new system and we're working our way into it.
Blair Pearson [ph] Robert W.
Baird is next.
One more quickly on inventory.
Can you just describe maybe how you plan summer back-to-school inventory relative to spring? And also the composition of inventory at quarter end given it ended down 23% year-over-year and if the inventory deliveries aren't on track and the issues with kind of changing to the faster response system are fixed? Let me respond to that.
I think they are.
I think that we're doing clearly better in moving to faster reaction time.
I think looking at spring inventory levels I think the spring inventory is still a bit light.
However last year at this time and this is an important point we were significantly over-inventoried which resulted in a lack of newness for second quarter that adversely affected us as we worked the inventory down during the quarter.
Our next question will come from Jennifer Black Jennifer Black &amp; Associates.
Research Division</strong> I was curious to know if you could talk about accessories as a category.
You were really excited about accessories and some of your big wins.
And also could you mention Gilly Hicks? And then lastly how do you feel about the overall fashion trends through the balance of the year? Do you think there's enough newness and I'm just talking overall to draw your consumer into the stores? Okay accessories first.
We're very excited about accessories.
And we have really just started.
There are many categories that are brand new.
We'll be rolling out more categories as we get into back-to-school as we get into Christmas.
We think there's major volume and profit opportunity here.
And this is a category you've been talking to me about for a long time.
So expect to see more and more of them.
Gilly Hicks let me talk about Gilly for a second.
I think what I have to say is that we remain excited about the potential of the brand and the broader intimate-apparel category.
And we're focused very much on how to best drive Gilly forward.
The online business has been incredibly strong which isn't a surprise.
And our Gilly test in Hollister stores has worked well and will be expanded this summer -- actually back-to-school.
We have some legacy issues with U.S.
stores square footage and we still need to figure that out.
But overall we remain very excited about the brand.
I think your third question was about will there be enough fashion to bring people into the stores for the balance of the year and I believe there will be.
I think our fashion is looking better and better.
We're turning it well.
I don't want to talk about what I think that fashion is but I think if you look in the stores now we have really good fashion and I think we'll continue to deliver that.
Next is Marni Shapiro The Retail Tracker.
But I'm very curious the promotions felt very -- it felt pulled back this quarter and I felt like the stores felt what I'd call lightly promotional.
And I was wondering if this is a function strictly of the lack of carryover inventory or the very good sell-throughs of fashion what's the combination of both&gt; And I guess how should I think about it ongoing? Because this quarter you didn't have one of your big spring blowout type of sales.
And I'm just trying to wrap my hand around what I should be looking for over the next couple of quarters? I mean Marni I think it's certainly an inventory function to a meaningful degree.
We had all that fall carryover again last year that was a big factor.
And then not only do we not have that this year but also were running light on spring inventory.
So I think that was certainly a factor in our promotional cadence.
But I think as we've long said our objective over time is to progressively become less promotional.
At this time we have a question.
Stephanie Wissink Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Jonathan if I could just have one clarification question on the guidance.
How should we think about the balance between gross margin improvement and the existing operating costs through the balance of the year? I think you had answered a question earlier regarding Q2 where the gross margin might be a bit softer.
But how should we think about that just in general over the balance? And then Mike I'd really be interested to hear from you on the loyalty program in terms of membership and what you're seeing in terms of opportunities to potentially allocate marketing dollars differently maybe more efficiently? Just on the gross margin rate for the full year Steph.
We're anticipating a rate in the mid-60s.
Q2 will probably be lower than the balance of the year.
It'll probably be the lowest quarter from a gross margin rate on a full year basis.
And then I think your second question was about our loyalty program numbers and marketing strategy or the combination of those 2.
On the numbers our CRM programs have continued to grow nicely over the course of the quarter.
And we're seeing increased penetration of club members in our store transactions which is one of the key measures we're looking at that through.
So that's continued to move along nicely.
I'd like to make a comment about marketing and that's that I'd like to take this opportunity to give an official welcome to Craig Brommers who recently joined our team as Senior Vice President of Marketing coming from Calvin Klein.
At this time we will take a question from Dana Telsey Telsey Advisory Group.
Mike can you talk a little bit about this transition to the faster reaction times? How are you adjusting to that internally? Does it differ by division or impact one brand more than another in terms of margins and inventory levels? And lastly the initial thoughts on any updates to the long-term strategic plans.
Are you thinking about store openings? Is it countries that you enter? Is it outlets versus regular stores? How do you think about it? Okay.
To answer the first part of your question it really is the same across the brands.
But let me give you a little more color on how we're looking at improving speed to market because it's made up of a number of factors.
Which are uniform across the business.
The first is shortening the development cycle which we've done.
The second is increasing vendor collaboration.
The third is interesting that's increasing sourcing in the Americas.
Fourth holding more open-to-buy for chase.
And fifth increasing the positioning of core fabrics.
I'll let Jonathan take the second part of the question.
Dana on the second part the strategic plan is first of all looking at where the world is going by market and by channel over the next few years and having an informed point of view of that.
Secondly taking into account what we're seeing in terms of the results from this customer research study and this look at the overall operating model from a profitability standpoint that will come out of the cross-functional initiative we've talked about.
And then pulling all those things together to go by market-by-market channel-by-channel and look at where we think the greatest growth opportunities are the greatest return on invested capital.
And that certainly includes potentially opening more stores internationally potentially outlets would be part of that.
So looking at all the different channels available to us.
And where we think the greatest return will be in the context of where we think the world is going and where our brands should be positioned in that context.
Our next question will come from Eric Beder with Brean Capital.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk little bit about -- 2 things.
Could you talk a little about the branded product and where is branded? And if we've seen a push back in terms of the women's product for branded in terms of logo products where does that go longer term? Is the logo product -- where is the place of logo products in the mix? And secondly you did the share buyback.
What should we be thinking about in the terms of share count for the rest of the year? Let me respond to the first part of the question.
Logo wear as we're defining that that's kind of cross-chest logo is still a business for us.
It is a declining business.
And we are in fact pushing that number down as we build other categories to take its place.
Eric on the second part.
Our share repurchase philosophy is very consistent with what we said in the past.
We want to always maintain a cash cushion of $350 million as the low trough point in the cycle.
Beyond that if we think the stock is attractively priced on a long-term basis we would expect to be buyers.
And we continue to evaluate the return for buying back our own stock versus the return on capital from other uses of capital.
So that's essentially the same philosophy we've had for a pretty good period of time.
Omar Saad with ISI Group is next.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you about the global market research study you guys alluded to in the prepared remarks.
What the genesis of that is.
What you've learned or what you hope to learn from that study.
And then I also had -- I wanted to get your thoughts as it relates to the cost savings analyses that you've been doing.
Incidentally did you uncover any areas where you found that maybe you were under-investing and need to kind of reallocate some costs to certain areas? Sure.
On the market research study Omar this -- we surveyed 20 000 consumers across the U.S.
Canada U.K.
Germany China Hong Kong Japan and Korea and the study looked at brand perceptions category perceptions key shopping behaviors as well as consumer segmentations and classic brand funnel metrics for us for our brands relative to a defined set of competition in each market.
So we are getting all those results in now.
We've been through in detail the results of the U.S.
market and then we're going to be working through the other markets over the next couple of weeks.
So we're getting some great insight to that.
It's not something we're planning to elaborate on publicly frankly in terms of those insights as we've paid a decent amount of money for this study.
But we are very interested by what we've learned from this study so far and we think it's going to be a key component of shaping our plans for the next few years.
In terms of your second question I think that's certainly something that is a lens through which we've looked at the process improvement initiative.
Are there areas where potentially we could spend more.
We're open to that.
And that will particularly come in the area of some of these process changes so we're not ruling out that as a possibility.
But net of any incremental investments we certainly anticipate there will be substantial savings as we grow through these remaining work streams.
Jeff Black with Avondale Partners is next.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes could you guys talk about the direct business which had been growing despite negative comps last year.
How much of that weakness is inventory? How much of that is Europe versus U.S.? And did that business also respond favorably in April? Just more color on that would be helpful.
Jeff I think the direct business is very significantly driven by the fact that in the first quarter of 2012 we were using it to clear through a lot of that fall carryover inventory.
So when we lapped that this year that had a very significant effect on the overall year-over-year DTC comps.
We expect to be back on track going forward with much healthier DTC comp rates.
And much healthier both in terms of the absolute number but also in terms of the margin that they're delivering which was still very good in Q1 given that we were lapping some very low margin volume from the year-ago period.
Yes I just have to reinforce that that there's strong profit growth in DTC even given that top line problem.
And spring comps for Q1 on DTC were up nicely as well.
Liz Dunn with Macquarie has a question.
My question -- first question relates to some of your longer-term comments you've made in the past about returning to sort of a low-teens operating margin.
As you start to get into this cost savings program as well as thinking about your AUR project.
Do you -- is it fair to say you have more confidence about your ability to achieve those targets? And what time frame would you be looking at? Liz well I think it's going to be a combination of these various things we have talked about coming together.
It's the 2 specific cross-function initiatives which as we get further along and are able to more specifically quantify those that will obviously be a piece of the equation.
Then there's the long-term strategic plan update which will be a significant component of it too.
So I think it's as all those things come together over the next few months we'll have better visibility on where we see the business and margins going over the next 3 to 5 years.
At this time we'll take John Kernan Cowen and Company.
This is Jerry Gray on for John actually.
I just have another question about the e-commerce business.
I was wondering if you could give us some color on what you think the potential growth opportunity is there in the long term in terms of what type of mix you can get to? I think it's huge.
It's a major priority.
We've been investing in it.
We've had very strong growth in Europe since we've made some key investments there.
We're still relatively modest in scale in Asia but we think that's a huge opportunity.
And we think there's still huge upside in the U.S.
as well.
So I think across all geographies we think it's a major opportunity.
And the target seems to be a moving target.
It gets better and better.
That does conclude our question-and-answer session.
And that does conclude our conference call.
Thank you very much for your participation.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Good day everyone.
Welcome to the Abercrombie &amp; Fitch Second Quarter Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Brian Logan.
Mr.
Logan please go ahead.
Good morning and welcome to our second quarter earnings call.
Earlier today we released our second quarter sales and earnings income statement balance sheet store opening and closing summary and an updated financial history.
Please feel free to reference these materials available on our website.
Also available on our website is an investor presentation which we will be referring to in our comments during this call.
This call is being recorded and the replay may be accessed through the Internet at abercrombie.com under the Investors section.
Before we begin I remind you that any forward-looking statements we may make today are subject to the Safe Harbor statement found in our SEC filings.
Today's earnings call is scheduled for 1 hour.
Joining me today on the call are Mike Jeffries and Jonathan Ramsden.
We will begin the call with a few remarks from Mike; followed by a review of the financial performance for the quarter from Jonathan and me; followed by an update on our strategic plans.
After our prepared comments we will be available to take your questions for as long as time permits.
Now to Mike.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
The second quarter results we are reporting today are disappointing and below our expectations coming into the quarter.
In particular we saw a further deceleration in the sales trend of our international stores while our U.S.
chain stores also comped negatively for the quarter for the first time since 2009.
Our direct-to-consumer business remained a bright spot posting its 10th successive quarter with year-over-year sales growth of 25% or better.
As we have discussed in the past we continue to believe that the macroeconomic environment is a primary driver of the negative comp sales we have seen in our international stores particularly in Europe.
The situation in Europe has continued to become more difficult since we first spoke of our concerns a year ago.
In addition cannibalization has clearly been a factor as our brands have become more widely available in Europe.
With NMR [ph] down 26 comp for international stores for the quarter we can specifically identify 5 percentage points of this trend as being attributable to store-on-store cannibalization.
The overall effect is likely somewhat greater taking into account potential transfer to our rapidly growing direct-to-consumer business.
However it is important to note that significant cannibalization effects are limited to only a portion of our international stores principally flagships with large tourist components and local catchments where we have multiple stores.
It is also important to note that even with the cannibalization we have seen the great majority of these stores still meet our margin hurdle criteria.
Beyond the macroeconomic and cannibalization effects in Europe we have also given back some share in the U.S.
and it is reasonable to assume that some of the factors that have affected our U.S.
business have also affected the trend in Europe.
Many of you observed the lack of newness in our stores through May and June and the stepped-up promotional activity that was necessary as we began clearing through our spring inventory overhang.
As we look back on the quarter and in fact all the way back to last Christmas it is clear that the significant slowing in the European business that began in the fall of last year coupled with a difficult fourth quarter in the U.S.
has continued to have repercussions.
Most notably it has put us in a position of playing defense to work down our inventory levels rather than being on offense and chasing into trends in which we believe.
Through long experience with this company I know that we are much better when we are playing offense than when we are playing defense.
Having said that our inventory position has improved considerably at the end of the second quarter and we are expecting further significant inventory level improvement in the third quarter as Jonathan will speak to in a moment.
In addition we are working to keep our committed inventories leaner going forward so that we have more room to chase and react.
We'll come back to that in a moment.
Beyond all these factors one question we continue to ask ourselves as a team and I know many of you have the same question is how much of the trend is self-inflicted.
The answer is not wholly clear.
However our entire organization is completely focused on improving the trends we have seen.
There are factors beyond our control but as a team we believe there are opportunities to do better.
We will talk in a few minutes about the various initiatives we have in place to improve productivity and profitability in our U.S.
stores and to help stabilize trends internationally.
In that context I'd like to make a few more comments on our international business.
During the quarter we opened a combined Hollister and Gilly Hicks store in London on Regent Street 7 international Hollister chain stores and 3 international Gilly Hicks chain stores.
We are pleased with the brand awareness and excitement that these openings have created.
Our four-wall operating income from international stores was down slightly to a year ago with contributions from new stores being more than offset by declines in existing stores most notably flagships.
This brings us to one of the paradoxes of our business today best illustrated by the performance of our A&amp;F flagship store in London.
The store was our first international flagship and quickly became a shopping destination for Europeans.
The store's performance however has been significantly affected as we opened other A&amp;F stores throughout Europe and probably by the growing penetration of Hollister in Europe.
Even with the impact of cannibalization the store has had approximately $64 million of sales over the past 12 months and has generated a four-wall EBITDA of approximately $33 million.
By the way these numbers for London are all included in a slide which Jonathan will discuss later as part of our strategic update presentation.
Despite the fact that sales volume is well below the store's peak from a couple of years ago and contribution is down even more the store still achieved a four-wall margin of approximately 50% over the past 12 months well above our target rate.
Taking into account an initial investment of nearly $30 million in CapEx and other investments the store's contribution translates into an annual storewide level ROI of approximately 80% after factoring in incremental non-four-wall costs and clearly the cumulative return is much greater than that.
The picture is similar from Milan in some of our earliest Hollister stores which despite significant declines in volume and profitability continue to deliver very strong results and returns on an absolute basis.
As we discussed on our last earnings call when we look at the current trends in Europe there are 4 key questions we ask ourselves.
First are our stores continuing to stand out from the mall in terms of excitement and energy and in terms of traffic and productivity? Second are the new store volumes consistent with the volumes at which we improve the deals? Third are we achieving our annualized target 30% four-wall margins at the current trend and after cannibalization? Last is our international direct-to-consumer business continuing to grow at a healthy rate? We continue to believe the answer to all of these questions is yes.
In addition we have long said that we achieved our -- if we achieve our operating hurdles return on investment metrics are also very strong.
However given the declines we have seen and the impact of cannibalization we believe that it is appropriate to add a further question.
Specifically whether return on invested capital we have generated from our international expansion is superior to any alternative deployment of capital over that period.
We are very confident that is the case as Jonathan will review in more details in a few minutes.
However given a period of declining churns -- declining returns we believe it is appropriate to review our future plans in that light and make sure that we remain highly disciplined in only committing to new stores or other capital projects where we are confident that based on conservative assumptions the answer to all 5 questions will remain yes.
Overall setting aside our future store opening plans we are very focused on improving the performance of our existing stores.
We remain very cautious about the macroeconomic environment but we are hopeful that with our comp sales for the past few weeks running a little above our second quarter trend we are beginning to see at least a stabilization in the trend.
With that I will hand over to Jonathan but will come back to make some additional comments in a few minutes.
Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
I'll start with a short summary of our results for the quarter and outlook for the full year and then Brian will go into some additional details.
For the quarter the company's net sales increased 4% to $951 million.
Total U.S.
sales including DTC were down 5%.
International sales including DTC were up 31%.
And total DTC sales including shipping and handling were up 25%.
Comp store sales were down 10% to last year.
Comp sales were down 5% in U.S.
stores and were down 26% in international stores.
On a weighted average basis the dollar strengthened approximately 3% versus the prior quarter and approximately 7% versus last year.
Foreign currency changes for the quarter affected sales growth adversely by approximately 160 basis points versus a year ago.
Gross margin erosion for the quarter of 110 basis points was modestly greater than anticipated reflecting the lower sales trend.
Overall expenses for the second quarter came in significantly below projection.
The main drivers of the expense reduction were lower contingent rent lower incentive compensation reductions in travel marketing and other home office expenses.
Operating income for the quarter was $27 million versus $47.2 million a year ago.
Operating margin fell 230 basis points with expense deleverage of 120 basis points adding to the operating margin erosion.
The tax rate for the quarter was 38.9% and diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $0.19 versus $0.35 for the prior year quarter.
Turning to the balance sheet.
We ended the quarter with total inventory cost up 20% versus a year ago.
Based on our current sales plan we expect inventory cost to be approximately flat year-over-year at the end of Q3 and down at the end of Q4.
We ended the quarter with $312 million in cash and cash equivalents and $20 million of current marketable securities.
During the quarter we drew down $75 million from our revolving credit facility to provide us with additional liquidity through the trough point in our cash cycle.
We have $274 million remaining available under our revolving credit facility and $300 million under our term loan facility.
During the second quarter we liquidated $18 million of our auction rate securities.
We did not repurchase any shares during the quarter.
In order to maintain our cash cushion any such repurchases would have entailed further drawing down on credit facilities which we were not comfortable doing in the absence of clear stabilization in trends.
At our board meeting yesterday the board approved an additional 10 million shares to our share repurchase authorization bringing our total outstanding authorization to 22.9 million shares.
We will come back to this in a moment.
With regard to our expectations for the fiscal year based on the second quarter trend we are now planning for down 10 comps for the full year with U.S.
and international trends consistent with Q2.
Overall based on the lowest sales trend we are now projecting diluted earnings per share for the year of $2.50 to $2.75.
Consistent with past practice our guidance does not assume any further share buybacks.
With that I will hand over to Brian to add some more details on our operating results for the quarter and outlook for the year.
Thanks Jonathan.
As reported comp store sales were down 10% for the quarter.
U.S.
comp store sales were down 5% versus down 1% in Q1 with chain stores performing slightly better although comping negative for the quarter for the first time since 2009.
International comp store sales were down 26% versus down 22% in Q1 with Hollister European stores performing somewhat better.
By brand comp store sales were down 11% for Abercrombie &amp; Fitch 10% for abercrombie kids and 10% for Hollister.
Within the brands male and female performed comparably.
The gross profit rate for the second quarter was 62.5% 110 basis points lower than last year's second quarter gross profit rate.
The decrease in rate was driven by an increase in average unit cost and the adverse effects of exchange rates partially offset by an international mix benefit.
A summary of our second quarter operating expense can be found on the slide on Page 5 of the investor presentation.
Stores and distribution expense for the quarter was $458 million or 48.1% as a percentage of net sales.
Store occupancy costs were approximately $185 million and all other stores and distribution cost represented 28.7% of net sales 120 basis points above the percentage of net sales they represented last year.
The increase in the stores and distribution expense rate was primarily the result of deleveraging on the negative comp store sales.
Stores and distribution expense for the quarter included approximately $700 000 of accelerated depreciation from our DC consolidation lower than previously anticipated due to an extension in the expected service life of our second DC.
MG&amp;A for the quarter was $111 million versus $110 million last year.
The increase in MG&amp;A for the quarter was due to an increase in marketing IT travel and other expenses largely offset by a decrease in incentive compensation expense.
The tax rate for the quarter was 38.9% compared to 30.7% for the prior year.
The increase in rate was primarily the result of a reduced benefit related to international operations which are taxed at a lower rate.
As Jonathan mentioned we ended the quarter with total inventory of cost up 20% versus the second quarter last year.
Spring season inventory continues to be up disproportionately which is reflected in the higher markdown reserve at the end of the quarter when compared to last year.
During the quarter we opened a combined Hollister and Gilly Hicks store in London on Regent Street 7 international Hollister chain stores and 3 international Gilly Hicks chain stores.
Details of international stores opening for the quarter are included on the slide on Page 9 of the investor presentation.
In the U.S.
we closed 6 stores during the quarter.
At the end of the quarter we operated 293 Abercrombie &amp; Fitch stores 159 abercrombie kids stores 578 Hollister stores and 25 Gilly Hicks stores.
With regard to our expectations for the fiscal year in addition to the down 10 comps for the fall season we anticipate for the full year that stores opened in 2011 will contribute approximately $250 million to sales growth while stores opened in 2012 are expected to contribute approximately $200 million.
Including -- excuse me excluding charges we anticipate a substantial recovery of our 2011 gross margin rate erosion to be largely offset by an expense deleverage.
The gross margin rate recovery is expected to be primarily the result of lower average unit cost due to the abatement of cotton prices.
During the fall season U.S.
chain AURs are expected to be flat to slightly down to last year while international AURs are expected to be down to last year.
In addition as a reminder our fourth quarter gross margin rate for last year was estimated to be adversely impacted by about 200 basis points as a result of markdowns on higher carryover inventory.
We expect the fiscal year tax rate to be in the high 30s and capital expenditures to be approximately $360 million.
With regard to third quarter we expect gross margin rate improvement to be more than offset by expense deleveraging on negative comp store sales.
For the third quarter we expect an increase in MG&amp;A expense versus second quarter due to higher marketing expenses related to the introduction of our new CRM programs and brand awareness initiatives in China including those around the Hong Kong flagship opening.
We will report third quarter sales and earnings results on Wednesday November 14.
With that I will turn the call back to Jonathan.
Thanks Brian.
As we indicated in our prerelease 2 weeks ago we want to spend some time this morning to give an update on various aspects of our forward-looking plans.
And in connection with that I would like to refer you to the Strategic Update section of our investor presentation.
First of all as Mike alluded to a few minutes ago we are confident that the return on investment from our international rollout to date has been superior to any alternative use of capital over that period including stock buybacks.
Going forward our philosophy remains to be disciplined in allocating capital to where it will derive the greatest return on a risk-adjusted basis.
Turning to the performance of our international operations to date.
As we have stated in the past we think it is helpful to break out the business between Hollister Europe A&amp;F flagships and other investments.
Starting with Hollister Europe.
As we have discussed in the past we believe that Hollister international store openings represent a low-risk high-return use of capital.
To illustrate how we think about this the slide on Page 14 shows the anticipated sales contribution EBITDA and operating income for a recent Hollister store we opened -- or we approved rather in France.
We referenced this example in some recent conference presentations and think it is a good example of a fairly average European Hollister store.
In addition to our expected or approved case as reflected on the slide we also show a downside scenario where the store achieves only 75% of its expected volume and a low-end scenario where the store only achieves 50% of its expected volume.
In terms of return on capital we define store level ROI as four-wall EBITDA less estimated incremental non-four-wall costs such as DC regional management and an allocation of country-specific costs divided by a total investment calculated as our original net CapEx plus other investments comprised primarily of pre-opening costs lease deposits where applicable and store working capital.
Using the store level ROI analysis this example shows that the return on the approved scenario is 62%.
The return is 41% in the down scenario -- downside scenario and is still above 20% in the low-end scenario a scenario we regard as very unlikely.
This particular store does not have any significant anticipated cannibalization effects but we also factor those in to the incremental EBITDA where they exist.
In addition our CapEx in France runs higher than our average across Europe.
On a trailing 12-month basis approximately 90% of our Hollister European stores exceeded a 30% four-wall margin.
In addition on average the stores are exceeding their approved sales volumes by approximately 20% with the result of the overall store level ROI for Hollister Europe is well above the example we just reviewed.
It is also important to note that our downside risk on Hollister chain stores is also protected by lease exit clauses that exist in many of our leases.
90% of our Hollister European stores have lease exit clauses either unconditional or based on sales.
Turning to A&amp;F flagships.
The slide on Page 16 provides an illustration of the performance of our A&amp;F London flagship over the past 12 months.
As Mike stated we believe that the London flagship is a good example to discuss as no other store has been more adversely affected by the macroeconomic and cannibalization trends.
Despite a material decline in London's volume over the past year the store continues to operate well head of its original approved volume and well ahead of our 30% contribution margin hurdle rate.
In addition the store level ROI has also remained strong and the store has generated cumulative returns which are a multiple of our initial investment.
Using a comparable measure our overall store level ROI on a trailing 12-month basis for our European A&amp;F flagships exceeds 35% with all of our European flagships other than Copenhagen and Düsseldorf operating at four-wall margins above 25%.
As a last point on Europe the returns referenced above do not include the benefit our increased store presence has had on our international DTC growth which we believe is significant.
With regards to other international operations our store level ROI for our Canadian operations is comparable to Europe.
Although at this point we are not planning any further investment in Canada.
With regard to Asia our rollout is still at an early stage and we will continue to take a test-and-learn approach to new opportunities limiting our invested capital until the opportunity is proven.
Turning to what this means for our future opening plans.
The slide on Page 18 shows the A&amp;F international store plans we have today.
We have added no new commitment since our prior update in May although we continue to move forward on Shanghai location that we would expect to open in the fall of 2013.
In addition we have scaled back Dublin and Seoul from full flagships to smaller Tier 1 formats with meaningful reductions in the associated capital expenditures.
We are not able to confirm an opening date for London kids at this time.
With regard to Shanghai we do not expect the store to achieve our 30% four-wall margin hurdle rate.
However we believe that a Shanghai flagship is important in supporting our broader roll-out in China which in addition to Hollister may potentially include some A&amp;F chain stores.
Beyond Shanghai we are pausing all other flagship commitments but will keep this under review as we go forward.
We now anticipate around 30 Hollister openings this year in addition to the 4 international Gilly Hicks stores we have already opened.
For 2013 we are planning for approximately 20 international Hollister chain store openings.
This includes close to 10 existing commitments.
Overall these openings will be focused on under-penetrated markets where we expect minimal cannibalization.
They will include our first stores in Australia and likely in the Middle East.
On the latter point we are finalizing an agreement to establish a joint venture with a Middle East-based partner that will provide us with operational support while enabling us to operate our stores consistently with our fully company-owned stores.
As we have done in the past we will continue to review all store openings on a case-by-case basis.
We now expect capital expenditures in 2012 to be around $360 million and 2013 capital expenditures to be around $200 million.
Our modified store opening plans will also result in significantly lower pre-opening costs which would now come in around $50 million this year and reduce to approximately $30 million next year.
Coming back to our capital allocation strategy.
As reflected on Slide 19 our share repurchase philosophy is as follows.
After allocating capital to new stores and other internal projects such as DTC investments that provide superior returns we would expect to return excess cash to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
We define excess cash as being cash above a $350 million base requirement at all times.
We believe this amount is appropriate to protect the company from the short-term effects of external factors.
In addition to cash from operations we will continue to review the appropriateness of adjusting our capital structure through the use of the term loan facility or other instruments over time.
This evaluation takes into account the inherent leverage already in our business model as well as our outlook on the business in general.
Given business trends here in the second quarter we chose not to draw down on the term loan but would expect to use this facility once we are confident that business trends will stabilize.
Lastly we would like to do buybacks when we believe the stock is attractive -- attractively priced on a long-term basis.
In the above context the slide on Page 20 of the presentation illustrates our capital allocation over the past 6 quarters and shows that over that period we have spent approximately $360 million on new store openings approximately $358 million on stock buybacks approximately $155 million on other CapEx projects including maintenance-type projects and approximately $90 million on dividends.
Regarding our share buyback potential the slide on Page 21 shows a projected normalized free cash flow for 2012 of around $300 million with a normalized lower run rate CapEx.
Assuming that our underlying results improve going forward the free cash flow generated should increase accordingly.
In addition having been in the position where inventory has been a use of cash over the past 12 months we expect inventory to be a source of cash over the next 12 months.
Beyond that we are committed to growing inventory at less than the rate of sales.
Based on this we anticipate that we will have substantial free cash flow from operations over the next 18 months to support continued capital return to shareholders.
In addition we have a term loan facility of $300 million to supplement that.
Based on these projections our board yesterday authorized an additional 10 million share increase in our share repurchase authorization bringing the total authorization to 22.9 million shares.
With that I will hand back to Mike.
Thanks Jonathan.
As I referenced a few moments ago our entire organization is focused on improving the trend of our business.
And before closing I want to review some of the initiatives we are pursuing to accomplish this.
This is not an area of significant capital investment but we believe there is significant potential to improve our overall returns to shareholders through gains in the productivity and profitability of our domestic fleet.
First with regard to merchandising.
We have a number of initiatives that will improve our ability to react and to chase.
These include implementing more conservative merchandise plans a shortening of our product development calendar and increasing the chase component of our open-to-buy.
In addition we are increasing local sourcing within the U.S.
and Central America to further shorten lead times and increase flexibility.
Second in terms of inventory productivity we are committed to growing inventory at a slower pace than the rate of sales growth.
This will be supported by investments we have made in new merchandising planning and allocation systems which are now live for the spring season of 2013.
Among other things these new systems will greatly enhance the efficiencies in building plans and give us much better visibility on margin and inventory plans by selling channel.
In addition these systems will shift our focus to selling margin rather than IMU which is a significant improvement given the evolution and complexity of our business today.
A third key area of focus is insight and intelligence particularly with regard to our international operations.
We are building the team to help us better understand macro competitor and customer dynamics in our key markets.
Ultimately we believe this improved understanding will help us make better business decisions.
This intelligence will include both primary and secondary research as well as leveraging our associates to gather and synthesize intelligence they come across.
Fourth with regard to customer engagement we are excited about the launch of our new club programs for A&amp;F and Hollister.
Yesterday marked the official launch date of our new A&amp;F club program and for our new Hollister Club Cali in the U.S.
Our CRM programs are something that we have been working hard on for nearly 2 years.
They will enable us to have a single view of the customer across channels to target both product and promotional messages to customers on a segmented or ultimately individualized basis and to engage with our customers in new ways and through unique content via mobile social and cross channels.
We believe that these programs will also allow us to gain insight into the behaviors of new and returning customers.
Prior to launch we had 150 000 pre-registrations for the clubs and we expect this to grow significantly in the coming weeks and months and become a meaningful part of our model.
Fifth with regard to expense and AUC we will continue to focus on finding efficiencies and taking cost out of our model as we have done successfully over the past year and we will continue that process going forward.
Although the complexity of running our business has increased with our international expansion our headcount at the home office remains lower than it was 4 years ago.
This further reinforces the leverage benefit of our profitable international store openings.
We have also analyzed and adapted our international operating margin -- model resulting in reductions in our selling payroll and other expenses such as repairs and maintenance.
The progress we have made on AUC for the fall season is also a good example of how effective our teams can be when they're aligned around specific measurable goals.
Last store closures will also remain an important part of our long-term plan to improve both the overall profitability and the brand profile of our U.S.
stores.
We continue to expect closures primarily through natural lease expirations to be modestly accretive to EPS on a year-over-year basis.
We believe all these efforts can be meaningful in terms of improving the trajectory of our domestic business and many of them will also benefit our international business and our DTC business.
With regard to DTC we remain pleased with the progress we are making particularly internationally where initiatives such as broadening the payment types we accept and accelerating our fulfillment capabilities are significantly improving conversion.
In closing I want to reiterate our confidence in the global appeal of our iconic brands.
This was once again affirmed with the strong response to our Hong Kong flagship on Saturday.
And this adds to our cautious optimism about the potential for our brands in mainland China.
Through its first 5 days the store has done over $1 million in sales.
We remain excited and optimistic about the opportunities ahead of us and we will be disciplined and judicious in our use of shareholders' capital to pursue these opportunities.
Thank you and we'll be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We will take our first question from Dana Telsey with the Telsey Advisory Group.
Mike can you -- given the new world that we're in how are you thinking about the merchandise assortment basic versus fashion pricing globally? And you mentioned the changes in the supply chain which should be very helpful.
How do you see that and timing of that of adding to enhancing inventory enhancing turn and margins? I think we're thinking the same thoughts.
Clearly we have room for more fashion more trend turning faster which will clearly be facilitated by shortening the cycle.
In terms of international pricing I'll turn that over to Jonathan.
Dana I think we've said we are planning for international AURs to be down in the back half of the year particularly in flagships and to a lesser degree in the Hollister chain stores on a year-over-year basis.
And I think Dana the most important part of trend and increasing our fashion component is as I said in the overview being on the offense.
Chasing is key to improving that part of our business.
And next we'll go to Randy Konik with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So I guess obviously so I think what the market wants to hear is the word discipline and so forth around the capital allocation.
So if I look at Slide 21 in the packet there's a quote that says normalized CapEx of $200 million and normalized free cash flow of $300 million.
Is there some sort of like a line in the sand we can be thinking about as -- or the shareholders or investors potential investors can be thinking about in the sense that either you're going to hold the line at around $200 million in CapEx going forward over the next few years? Or x that would you be able -- be committing to generating a normalized free cash flow minimum or baseline of about $300 million per year assuming that if the operations get better the CapEx could go up a little bit? So just trying to get some clarity there.
And then on the share buyback you made a comment Jonathan about buying back when the stock is attractive.
Obviously it's pretty attractive down here at least from our perspective.
I guess the pause was that due to the cash generation cycle at this point in the year and we could expect that to -- the buyback spigot to turn back on in the back half of the year and into early part of next year? How should we be thinking about the timing of the buyback? Sure.
I mean to take the first part first then Randy.
I mean we're obviously hopeful that operating cash flow we're going to generate this year is going to be growing going forward.
I mean frankly if it didn't grow then I think the likelihood that CapEx would grow would be very unlikely because that would suggest that the dynamics going on wouldn't support accelerating again the store openings.
So we are hopeful that the normalized free cash flow of $300 million will grow even if CapEx were to start growing again at some point.
But we're going to remain very disciplined about how we're going to look at it on the basis of store-by-store.
Is the return we can generate from any given store the best use of capital relative to buybacks or any other use as we commit to each of those stores? So we would certainly hope that that normalized free cash flow should be growing going forward from what has obviously been a challenging year in 2012.
And then on the second piece there are 2 principal gates we have to get through to do the buybacks: the first one is valuation and the second one is liquidity.
The comments we made in the script were that because we would have had to go into the term loan to be buying back shares during the quarter we weren't comfortable doing that given the trends in the business.
And as we’ve just said in the script once we feel that those trends have stabilized then we would expect to pull down on that facility and use it towards buybacks.
And we obviously can't be more specific on the timing around that.
But it was really a liquidity-driven issue in the second quarter that prevented us from going forward.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So I just want to make it clear.
So should the market be thinking about $300 million as a baseline of free cash flow for this company in its ability to generate that number going forward over not just the next 12 months but if we're thinking about potential investments -- investors thinking about next 2 3 4 5 years? Is that how we should be thinking about this business? We're obviously not giving a forecast for the business but we would be disappointed if we weren't able to generate more free cash flow than that beyond 2012.
Does that answer the question? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And next we'll go to Steph Wissink with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to follow up on Randy's regarding discipline.
You added a tremendous amount of discipline around your store operating model.
I'm just curious how you thinking about the overall health of your stores based in the U.S.
More so what is right store base size for each of your core concepts? Yes Steph I think that we've said for Hollister we don't anticipate the store footprint contracting significantly.
There are some stores that will probably close which are not doing particularly well and there's no new news there.
But most of the closures are oriented towards a&amp;f kids and getting the a&amp;f kids brands focused on those stronger performing stores.
And as we've said many times in the past if you look at the sort of upper tier of A&amp;F and kids stores the economics of those stores are frankly comparable to our international stores so there is a segment of those stores that we would like to reposition the fleet towards.
We've talked about another 180 closures between now and 2015.
Again most of that would be oriented towards A&amp;F and kids as it has been for the 135 stores we closed in 2010 and '11.
And next we'll go to Janet Kloppenburg with JJK Research.
Michael congratulations on an outstanding opening in Hong Kong.
That's very exciting.
A couple of questions.
At the end of the first quarter or maybe fiscal year '11 you had said that you expected to recapture a great portion or almost all of the gross margin that you lost in 2011 attributable to higher raw material cost.
Can you just give us an update on that outlook right now? Secondly I know there'll be increased M&amp;A pressure -- MG&amp;A expense pressure in the quarter due to the CRM and China marketing costs should we expect that again in the fourth quarter? And just lastly Mike how soon can your merchandising and sourcing -- your shortened lead time initiatives affect the merchandise in the stores? Okay.
Jonathan do you want to take the first part? Sure.
In terms of gross margin rate Janet what we said is that we anticipate a substantial recovery of the erosion we had last year so well towards -- well back towards the 2010 gross margin rate.
And as Brian said in his comments that's primarily driven by the average unit cost benefit with some international mix coming into play.
On the marketing piece there is a -- there will be some ongoing costs of operating the CRM programs and there'll be some ongoing Hong Kong and China marketing where there is a disproportionate effect in this quarter particularly around the Hong Kong opening where we did fairly extensive marketing around that on that expense as well as some of the initial content creation for the club programs is disproportionately impacting Q3.
So it should certainly abate beyond Q3.
Janet I'm going to give you a long answer to work our way into your question.
And I'd like everyone to know that I think that we have to start by going back to this time last year.
Our international business had been very strong through the first 6 months of the year.
And I think Hollister comped around 20% for the second quarter of last year.
Our U.S.
business was also strong.
Since that time we've had obviously very significant reductions in sales volumes and we've had to make material changes to our merchandise plans in response to that.
So we have been in the mode for most of that time in trying to get out of inventory receipts and work down inventory levels as opposed to chasing the business which is what we've proven ourselves to be rather good at doing.
And that's a tough place.
Did we miss business over the past 2 quarters because our assortment was too narrow and because we are late on some trends? I believe so.
But what we have been working toward is what I've stated to put ourselves in a position where we can be back on the offensive.
This is an important point that I keep making.
And that means conservative merchandise plans more open-to-buy more chase.
And the answer to your question is that I think we'll be there as we progress through Christmas in terms of what you see in the stores and certainly for spring.
In our financial plans though we're not counting on any improvement in the trends from this but we're hopeful that we'll see some.
And next we'll go to Adrienne Tennant with Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> My question is on the international lease structure and I was wondering it sounds like Hollister is quite similar to the U.S.
mall structure 10-year leases with kick-outs.
I was wondering on the flagships if you can help us.
Are they longer leases? Are they -- can you work with landlords in terms of adjusting them as we go? And is that different in Asia versus Europe? With regard to Hollister by the way it's probably worth noting that the structure of the leases in a number of countries in Europe actually gives us more flexibility than we have in the U.S.
Somewhere like France or Belgium they -- there are kick-outs that kick in after various periods of time pretty much automatically in the structure of the leases in those countries.
So we do also have a couple of those kick-out type provisions in some of the smaller flagship stores.
We don't have them in the bigger flagship stores in Europe.
But frankly the scenario in which could see ever wanting to exercise a kick-out in those flagship stores is so remote as to make it essentially kind of a moot question.
In Asia it's still early days over there.
The leases typically in China tend to be a little bit shorter than they are in Europe or the U.S.
I think with regard to new flagships and lease flexibility based on our current plans as we said we're not anticipating at this point adding to the commitments we have out there other than Shanghai.
So again it's somewhat moot at this point.
But I think in terms of general duration of the leases in somewhere like China where it is in any case shorter than the U.S.
and given the relatively small number of leases we have we haven't really got into this point of discussion about kick-out provisions in those leases.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And any update on Singapore? Yes it's doing solidly.
Solid business yes.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And Mike I just wanted to say once again your eye for color is fantastic for the fall season.
Thank you.
That's very kind.
And next we'll go to Evren Kopelman with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> It's Maren Kasper in for Evren.
So the four-wall margins are still really strong in Europe but the non-store expenses are what are weighing on the operating margin.
Is that just a factor of scale? Or is there an opportunity to reduce some of those non-store expenses? Well the non-store expenses are a combination of a few different things.
If you're looking at the segment chart in the investor presentation you've got DC costs which are largely a function of sales over time as a fixed component.
And we've always said that DC costs in Europe will progressively reduce as a percentage of sales as we have more volume going through those facilities.
Regional management is a function of store count for the most part.
Typically there's a span of control for the regional district managers that isn't really directly correlated with volumes so there is a little bit of deleveraging to that effect when you have negative same-store sales.
They are a couple of the bigger buckets the bigger pieces that go into that.
Then obviously we have pre-opening costs which is outside of that.
I think reading that out of other expense line quarter-to-quarter is a little challenging.
I think it's more meaningful on a sort of full year basis but what we've generally said is we would expect that to remain on a full year basis relatively flattish as a percentage of sales.
We don't expect either significant leverage or deleverage on an ongoing basis.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's helpful.
And then secondly when do you think you guys have potential to begin to leverage occupancy expenses again? I mean that’s really driven by comps frankly.
I mean if we're in a positive comp environment obviously you can leverage occupancy.
And if you're negative same-store sales clearly it's going to be the opposite.
We do have a 80 percentage rent component to our occupancy cost.
But most of our occupancy cost is made up of fixed rent and fixed depreciation so it’s clearly a function of the sales trend.
[Operator Instructions] We'll next go to Lorraine Hutchinson with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up.
When you talk about comp trends stabilizing in order for you to draw down on the revolver does that mean turn positive or just not getting worse? I think it's a belief that -- we don't want to over-parse this but I think it's a belief that things aren't getting worse primarily and therefore that -- and that we have a comfort factor that the trend stabilization that we're looking at when we make that decision is one that we think is sustainable.
And that entails obviously not just seeing a few weeks but seeing somewhat longer period of stabilization or improvement.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my question revolved around the cannibalization analysis that you did when you were originally rolling the stores out.
Where do you think it went wrong in trying to predict the cannibalization? And do you feel like you have a good enough handle on it now to be opening 30 more Hollisters internationally over the next year or so? Well first of all I think the premise of the first part of the question that we went wrong is not one we would agree with.
I think we've -- it's obviously hard to begin with to project those things.
When we opened a store in Oberhausen it was tough for us to know whether people were driving 100 miles or 50 miles to come to the store because the brand was so appealing so it was tough to gauge.
And I think there was probably some opening surge in any case around those stores.
But more importantly when we've gone back and looked at all the stores that have been cannibalized and looked at whether we -- in hindsight we would still have opened them there was probably 1 or maybe 2 that we might not have opened because they wouldn't have met our overall returns.
So it's not as if in retrospect it led us down a path that we wouldn't have gone down.
Going forward we are able now based on the patterns we've seen in certain discrete catchments like in for example the Frankfurt area or obviously around London or even in somewhere like Manchester where we have 2 stores that are pretty close together in the U.K.
We now have a pretty good read on that and then every store we approve.
Today we put in a specific assumption of the cannibalization of existing stores and looking at the incremental return that store generates both in terms of the four-wall margin but also in terms of the overall store level ROI that we talked about earlier.
So I think to some degree it's natural.
When the brand first got to Europe it was very hot.
People were probably going out of their way to get to the store to find it or having a friend go there.
Over time as it becomes more available than some of the existing stores probably that had some cannibalization there's no great surprise about that.
But fundamentally it doesn't I think change the economics of what we have been through.
And let me add to this.
Our discipline is really strong.
To look at Hong Kong where we just stated what the flagship is doing we also have an immensely successful store in Festival Walk.
It's one of the highest volume Hollister stores in the fleet.
We are not -- we're going to open one more store in Hong Kong and that's this month in Causeway Bay.
But that will be it in Hong Kong.
So with the size of that business and enthusiasm for our brands we're very disciplined about calling it a day at this point.
And next we'll go to Kimberly Greenberger with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Mike I'm wondering if you can just talk to us about the international pricing strategy.
I know last year you felt like you had potentially overreached on price a little bit and you've been taking pricing down early this year.
Do you feel like you've found the right sort of level on pricing in international stores? And then Jonathan I'm wondering if you can just help us with U.S.
versus international comps by quarter last year.
I would assume that the international comparisons get a little bit easier as we progress through the second half of the year.
And if you just have the transaction metrics here for the second quarter that you just reported that would be great.
Let me comment on international pricing and -- first flagship and then Hollister.
What I believe I said was that we felt we might have stretched the flagship prices too high.
We have reacted to that and lowered the mix in flagship stores.
I can't really tell you Kimberly if what I was saying was correct.
It's very difficult to track that flagship AUR to the business.
I believe that the slowdown in those stores has been really macro-related primarily they're tourist stores and some cannibalization.
So we've lowered the retails slightly for go-forward in the flagship stores.
I'm really not sure if the result is going to be dramatic.
But Hollister AURs are very very comparable to last year.
Kimberly on the second part just to take some of the pieces of that I think we said on the U.S.
that the -- and this is off the top of my head.
These numbers may not exactly right.
But I think we'd said high single digits for U.S.
stores through the first 3 quarters of last year and then approximately flat I think in the fourth quarter of last year I think is what we've said.
With regard to Hollister Europe we were up in the 20%-plus range through the first 6 months of last year.
That then moderated into single digits in the third and fourth quarters of last year and then turned negative in 2012.
The flagships’ trend declined a little than Hollister.
We started to see the first signs of that in the second quarter although really predominantly in August.
But it didn’t really become clear until the third quarter.
And then the flagships went negative from the third quarter onwards in 2011 and then they've been more negative through the first half of 2012 within Hollister.
Research Division</strong> And Jonathan just on the transaction metrics in the second quarter? You're asking for a recap Kimberly or some...
Research Division</strong> AUR...
Basically we have a...
Research Division</strong> Is that in the presentation? Brian do you want to take that on AUR for the second quarter? Yes.
For the second quarter I think we only gave some information on go-forward on the AUR.
We didn't specifically call that out.
But I think again Brian correct me if I'm wrong.
I think was it roughly flattish to slightly down for the U.S.
chain stores in the second quarter.
That's correct.
And next we'll go to David Glick with Buckingham Research Group.
Jonathan just a question about the tax rate.
I mean clearly international business is still very profitable yet the corporate tax rate is back toward more historical levels before you had a more profitable international operation.
Can you help us understand why that's the case and how we should think about the tax rate going forward? Sure David.
There's kind of a 30-second answer to that question and there's like 2-hour one so it's a...
I'll take the 30-second.
30 seconds.
I mean essentially we have the underlying profitability the economy profitability of the operation which is obviously still very strong.
Then what happens though is a portion of our central overhead for tax purposes gets pushed out to the International operations.
So our home office cost here -- and that's primarily based on sales how that gets allocated for tax purposes.
So as international's grown as a proportion of the sales for tax purposes more of our central overhead for tax purposes gets moved to international and that therefore reduces the taxable profits internationally.
It doesn't -- I mean so there's a somewhat different answer between the economic profits and the taxable profits.
So that's the short 30-second version of it.
Okay moving on.
We'll go to Robin Murchison with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Question what is the approximate number of stores needed to maintain critical mass in the kids division? And then as you look at -- are you looking at any merchant design team changes relative to any or all of the brands? I guess on the first part Robin I mean it's something that we clearly feel we have critical mass with the store count we have today from a buying standpoint.
And certainly within the plans that we've made for store closures we don't anticipate changing our position so we're not going to take the overall store footprint to a level where we would start to lose leverage from an average unit cost standpoint.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the merchant design changes any? None that we're discussing at this point.
We're constantly evolving that step.
I think the most important point is we have the -- arguably the strongest merchant and design teams in the business.
We're very pleased with them.
They continue to perform.
And next we'll go to Liz Dunn with Macquarie Capital.
Just a follow-up to the stores question.
A lot of higher-end brands sort of have a kind of 300-store opportunity in the United States that they talk about and somewhere above that such as Coach.
I'm just curious as to your perspective on why the Abercrombie &amp; Fitch brand doesn't have that sort of potential scale and now we need to close stores in that brand.
And then also I appreciate your careful management of the brand aesthetic over the years and obviously that's led to some longevity for the brand.
But how do you -- do you think at all that that sometimes constrains your ability to chase emerging trends as quickly as your competitors? Well I guess on the first part I mean I think obviously our demographic is somewhat different than someone like a Coach.
We obviously can't speak to anybody else's store count plans.
We look at it based on the economic performance of those stores we're in today.
And the stores that are marginal or we think are declining relative to the chain in many cases they're in malls that -- where the malls are declining.
So we certainly wouldn't want to keep open a store if it's not doing well today and the mall itself is declining.
We are generally in malls only which may also account for some of the difference with some of those other brands you're looking at.
But I don't think we can really talk about anything beyond how we look at it and the economics of the stores that we're focused on closing versus the ones where we expect to keep open because of their performance.
To answer your question Liz about whether our aesthetic prevents us from chasing trends as fast as our competitors I don't think that's the case.
I think that we might -- we have a point of view that we chase trend that is appropriate to our aesthetic.
But there is plenty of trend out there that is appropriate to our aesthetic.
And next we'll go to Brian Tunick with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I guess one question for Mike.
If you could just elaborate on your comments about the improved trend you've seen over the past few weeks.
Is that both in the U.S.
and in Europe? Obviously there was some noise around the Olympics.
And then maybe Jonathan some more color on the gross margin expectations for the back half.
Just maybe help us feel more comfortable what you've baked in domestically.
Again when we see A&amp;F doing all denim $39 last week; American Eagle is now priced under $30.
How much have you assumed that it gets very competitive in the back half? We understand you get the cotton back but just trying to understand what you've assumed in your guidance for the full year on the gross margins really more domestically.
Okay.
The answer to your question is that comp sales have improved for both U.S.
and international.
However it's too early to say this represents a decisive change in the trend.
As we found during the second quarter the comp sales can be volatile.
We'll know -- we think we'll know more over the next several weeks.
But for now we're not counting on an improved trend but we remain hopeful.
Brian on the second part of the question as Brian I think referenced in his comments we are planning for AURs in U.S.
chain stores to be flat to slightly down for the balance of the year which is a little more conservative than we had -- we've indicated back in May.
Obviously we're up against a very aggressive promotional period particularly in the fourth quarter.
So at this point we think that's a reasonable assumption.
The other key drivers are also the average unit costs.
The biggest help to gross margin year-over-year is that reserve effect that Brian alluded to earlier which is also helping to some degree and then international mix where we also have lower AURs baked in year-over-year for the international stores.
And we'll take our last question from Anna Andreeva with FBR.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could parse out some of the gross margin decline for the second quarter down 100 basis points.
It’s actually a little better than what we would have thought given all the promotional activities.
So what was AUC versus ForEx? And then looking into the third quarter you mentioned bigger expense deleverage.
So how should we think about stores and distribution expense? I think it was up about 8% in dollars year-over-year.
In the second quarter should we think about a similar type of increase in 3Q and similarly on MG&amp;A? Okay thanks.
I guess on AUC Anna it was flat to slightly up for the quarter.
The turning point was sort of midway through the quarter.
So in terms of what we actually sold it still skewed a little bit up on a year-over-year basis.
I don't know if we pulled out the specific FX impact on gross margin.
We haven't specifically broken that out.
I think one of the reasons it was probably better than you might have anticipated really goes back to that point that we've been focused on trying to work through the inventory kept it on the floor a little longer.
And that probably has to some degree impacted the sales trend.
But we did focus on trying to hold the gross margin rate as we worked through the season.
Brian do you want to comment on the other pieces? I think the question about increased expense deleverage in Q3.
Any additional detail we can give? I think part of it is some of the incremental expenses that we're going to see around our CRM programs which will be incremental in the third quarter in addition to some of the marketing initiatives we had discussed as well related to -- primarily related to China.
That does conclude today's question-and-answer session and today's presentation.
We thank everyone for their participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Abercrombie &amp; Fitch Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Brian Logan.
Mr.
Logan please go ahead.
Good morning and welcome to our third quarter earnings call.
Earlier today we released our third quarter sales and earnings income statement balance sheet store opening and closing summary and an updated financial history.
Please feel free to reference these materials available on our website.
Also available on our website is an investor presentation which we will be referring to in our comments this morning.
Today's earnings call is being recorded and the replay may be accessed through the Internet at abercrombie.com under the Investors section.
The call is scheduled for 1 hour.
Joining me today are Mike Jefferies and Jonathan Ramsden.
Before we begin I remind you that any forward-looking statements we may make today are subject to the Safe Harbor statement found in our SEC filings.
In addition due to the 53rd week in the fiscal 2012 retail year third quarter comparable sales are compared to the 13-week period ended November 3 2012.
Also as a reminder the company changed its method of accounting for inventory to the cost method effective February 2 2013.
As a result prior figures have been restated to reflect the change in accounting method.
We will now begin the call with a few remarks from Mike followed by a review of the financial performance for the quarter from Jonathan and me.
After our prepared comments we will be available to take your questions for as long as time permits.
With that I will turn the call over to Mike.
Good morning everyone.
Our results for the third quarter were disappointing driven by continued weakness in top line performance.
The weak sales trend that began in July continued through the quarter.
While the sales trend improved in October this was largely related to a step-up in promotional activity and the anniversary-ing of certain events such as Sandy.
We are feeling the effects of a number of broad trends but we can and need to do better in driving the top line of the business.
In the near term we are prepared for conditions to remain difficult in the fourth quarter and intend to manage the business accordingly.
Despite the challenging retail environment for young apparel we are pleased by the continued growth of our direct-to-consumer business which was up in all regions in the third quarter with particularly strong growth in Asia.
Our fast-growing and highly profitable international direct-to-consumer business is demonstrating the benefits of investments we have made over the past few years.
We are also pleased by the progress we are making on the ground in Asia.
Our 6 Hollister stores in mainland China are now generating four-wall margins similar to that of our European stores.
Comp store sales growth in China is up around 40% year-to-date and our newest store in Sanlitun opened strongly and continues to perform well.
In addition we had a robust response to the opening of our first Hollister store in Japan at LaLaport Yokohama.
It was one of our best performing Hollister store opening weekends in our brand's history.
Since its opening in September this store's volume is tracking to be a top 10 Hollister store.
With this momentum we are excited to open our second Hollister store next month at LaLaport Shin Misato in Tokyo.
From a merchandise standpoint we're also pleased with our performance during the quarter in outerwear which comped up around 10% across genders and brands.
We continue to see high potential in this category.
Our underwear and intimates business also did well for the quarter including the successful test of selling Gilly Hicks product within Hollister stores.
And our denim business for the quarter was solid particularly on the male side.
However our female top business remained weak.
We see this as an extremely important area of opportunity to turn around our overall sales performance.
Coming back to our long-range strategic review.
In our analyst meeting earlier this month we outlined initiatives that we will undertake in the coming months.
Coming out of the meeting I know that many of you wanted to know more about how we are prioritizing these initiatives and other actions and what will have the most impact in driving improvement in top line growth.
From my perspective our priorities lie in the following 4 areas: first making female tops better.
Many of the initiatives we spoke to will help with this but I believe that our evolution to testing close to 100% of our assortment shortening our lead times and increased style differentiation will be the most significant; second increasing brand engagement through enhanced marketing initiatives and campaigns.
In our analyst meeting we spoke about having national campaigns in place for back-to-school next year building on smaller scale initiatives we will be doing in the meantime; third completing the restructuring of our cost base.
Prior to our next earnings call in February we expect to have reached final conclusions on the scale of remaining opportunities beyond what we have already announced; fourth ensuring we are properly organized to execute against our strategic plan.
We continue to work on this and expect to reach a conclusion in the near future.
I am confident that we will make progress on each of these priorities in the coming quarters and establish a firm foundation for improving our operating performance.
We have iconic brands with global appeal and a clearly defined aesthetic.
Our brands have a strong reputation for quality heritage and timeless fashion and we believe the best path to growth and shareholder value creation is to leverage those strengths.
With this in mind it is of course necessary for us to adapt to changing markets and consumer dynamics and we intend to do so while staying true to our brand heritage.
With that I will hand the call over to Jonathan but we'll be available to take your questions later in the call.
Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
For the quarter the company's net sales were $1.033 billion down 12% to last year.
Total U.S.
sales including DTC were down 18%.
International sales including DTC were up 2% and total DTC sales including shipping and handling were up 10%.
Including direct-to-consumer comp sales were down 14% with the U.S.
down 14% and international down 15%.
Within the quarter comparable sales were weakest in the months of August and September.
The gross margin rate for the quarter was 130 basis points lower than last year.
This included a calendar shift benefit which was largely offset by $5.3 million of inventory write-downs related to Gilly Hicks.
The lower-than-anticipated gross margin rate was primarily the result of a step-up in promotional activity mainly in October.
On an adjusted non-GAAP basis operating expense for the quarter was $591 million versus $619 million last year.
This excludes pretax charges of $96 million which are detailed on Page 3 of our investor presentation.
Other operating income for the quarter included a $6 million benefit associated with insurance recoveries.
Overall expenses for the quarter came in significantly below forecast as we flexed down expenses in reaction to the lower sales trend.
In addition we were able to realize a small amount of savings related to the profit-improvement initiative during the quarter.
On an adjusted non-GAAP basis operating income for the quarter was $60 million versus $133 million a year ago.
Operating margin on an adjusted basis decreased 550 basis points resulting from gross margin erosion coupled with expense deleverage.
The tax rate for the quarter excluding the effect of charges was 31.1% and included a benefit of $4.9 million related to certain discrete tax items.
On a full year basis we expect the tax rate to be in the mid-30s on an adjusted non-GAAP basis.
For the quarter the company reported adjusted non-GAAP earnings per diluted share of $0.52 versus $1.02 last year.
Results for the quarter includes $0.06 of tax benefits related to the discrete tax matters I just referenced.
Turning to the balance sheet.
We ended the quarter with approximately $258 million in cash and equivalents and borrowings under the term loan of approximately $139 million.
Cash was below our target minimum holding of $350 million but we expect to be back well above that level by year end.
We ended the quarter with total inventory at cost up 22% versus a year ago with in-transit contributing to the increase.
While overall inventory is expected to be up at the end of the year we expect to end with appropriate levels of full carryover inventory versus the low levels last year.
2 weeks ago we announced that we have decided to focus the future development of Gilly Hicks through Hollister stores and direct-to-consumer channels and we will be closing our stand-alone Gilly Hicks stores.
Excluding charges associated with the restructuring we incurred an operating loss of $12 million related to Gilly Hicks' operations in the third quarter.
The operating loss included $5.3 million in inventory write-down charges that I mentioned earlier.
With regard to our outlook for the full year based on a projected low-double-digit decrease in comparable sales for the fourth quarter we are projecting full year adjusted non-GAAP diluted EPS to be in the range of $1.40 to $1.50.
This projection also assumes significant gross margin rate erosion in the fourth quarter including an unfavorable effect from the calendar shift.
We expect gross margin rate for the full year to be approximately flat to last year.
The projection for the full year does not include charges related to our restructuring actions for Gilly Hicks other impairment and store closure charges charges related to the improved implementation of our profit-improvement initiative or the effect of any additional share repurchases.
Also due to the extra week in last year's fiscal calendar and the resulting calendar shift the prior year comparable 13-week period ended February 2 2013 would have had approximately $82 million less in sales versus the actual reported 14-week period ended February 2 2013.
This will adversely affect fourth quarter sales and earnings on a relative basis.
We continue to expect capital expenditures of around $200 million for the year and preopening costs of around $25 million.
With regard to the rest of our real estate plans for 2013 we intend to open approximately 20 international Hollister chain stores in total for the year as well as a small number of international and U.S.
outlet stores.
To date in 2013 we have opened 13 international Hollister chain store locations.
We continue to expect to close approximately 50 stores in the U.S.
in 2013 through natural lease expirations primarily at the end of the year.
During the quarter we opened an A&amp;F flagship store in Seoul.
We plan the opening of an A&amp;F flagship store in Shanghai as expected in the spring of 2014.
With regard to the ongoing profit-improvement initiative we expect to realize a somewhat greater amount of savings during the fourth quarter than the small amount we recognized during the third quarter.
As we stated during our analyst meeting 2 weeks ago we expect to realize net incremental annual savings of at least $100 million beyond what is realized this year and have a close-to-final figure of expected cost savings by our February earnings call.
For incremental savings we identified beyond the $100 million we continue to expect to reinvest a portion of those savings into funding marketing efforts tied to our strategic plan.
Going forward our financial focus remains on driving operating margin improvement through execution of our strategic plan and maintaining a disciplined approach to capital allocation.
With that I'm going to hand it over to Brian to provide some more details on our results for the quarter.
Thanks Jonathan.
As reported third quarter comp sales were down 14%.
By brand comp sales including direct-to-consumer were down 13% for Abercrombie &amp; Fitch down 4% for abercrombie kids down 16% for Hollister.
Across the brands female performance was weaker than male.
Changes in foreign currency exchange rates versus a year ago benefited sales by approximately $7 million.
Also due to the calendar shift from the 53rd week in fiscal 2012 the prior year comparable 13-week period ended November 3 2012 had approximately $23 million less in sales versus the reported 13-week period ended October 27 2012 which adversely affected third quarter year-over-year sales and earnings.
The gross profit rate for the third quarter was 63.0% 130 basis points lower than last year's third quarter gross profit rate primarily driven by lower average unit retail.
Stores and distribution expense for the quarter was $565 million up from $497 million last year.
Stores and distribution expense for the quarter included $84 million of charges related to the restructuring of Gilly Hicks other store impairments and the profit-improvement initiative.
Excluding these charges the stores and distribution expense rate for the quarter was 46.5% of sales compared to 42.5% of sales last year.
Expense savings and store payroll store management and support and other store and distribution expense were more than offset by the deleverage effect of negative comparable sales and higher direct-to-consumer expense.
MG&amp;A expense for the quarter was $131 million versus $123 million last year.
MG&amp;A expense for the quarter included $12 million of charges related to the profit-improvement initiative and the restructuring of Gilly Hicks.
Excluding these charges MG&amp;A expense for the quarter was $120 million a decrease of 3% versus last year.
Details of international Hollister store openings for the quarter are included on the slide on Page 9 of the investor presentation.
At the end of the quarter we operated 287 Abercrombie &amp; Fitch stores 151 abercrombie kids stores 597 Hollister stores and 28 Gilly Hicks stores.
This concludes our prepared comments.
We will now take your questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today will come from Kimberly Greenberger Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Mike I wanted -- within new clothes of fashion particularly in the Abercrombie &amp; Fitch brand that looked pretty encouraging.
And we're seeing 30% off -- at least we were seeing 30% off even in new fashion in the month of October.
So I'm wondering do you think -- how long -- or what is the strategy to sort of gradually wean the customer off of promotions as you start to deliver more new fashion? I think that's a very good question Kimberly and thank you for noticing that there's encouraging fashion because we believe that's the case.
We are doing this on kind of a week-by-week basis.
Obviously as we start to get better traction we're going to be able to raise our retails.
I think we are in an intensely promotional time today and I would love to say that this is going to happen in the next few weeks.
The interesting thing is that we run the business on a week-by-week basis so as we see traction we're going to be able to do this.
I believe the fashion is getting better and better as do you.
Thank you.
Our next question will come from Marni Shapiro The Retail Tracker.
I have 2 quick one housekeeping question.
If you could just clarify you said 50 stores to close by year end.
That's excluding Gilly Hicks? And is it still more heavily weighted to the Abercrombie brand? And then Mike if you could just look forward be it a year 18 months and the balance of fashion is better in the store.
I'm assuming there will still be a good percentage of logo merchandise in the store.
Should we start to think of that as more of -- I don't want to say a promotional vehicle but we know the customer is always looking for promotion.
So should we start to think of the balance in that way that fashion would be the full-priced vehicle and the logos would be the promotional vehicle? Let me just deal with the first 2 points Marni.
Yes the 50 stores by year-end includes the stores we've closed year-to-date but doesn't include any of the Gilly Hicks stores.
That would be over and above that.
In terms of the mix we are anticipating that it is going to shift a little more to Hollister over time given the number of closures that have already occurred.
So yes a higher proportion of Hollister stores than we've seen to date.
And in relation to your question about logo wear I think that it's very smart that there is a logo business that is ongoing.
Our mission in logo is to make that category cooler and by doing so I don't think we have to relegate that to a promotional business only.
Our next question will come from Liz Dunn with Macquarie.
My question was about the international business.
You've obviously called out some strength there in certain stores.
But broadly the business is weak.
Are the areas of weakness fashion-wise similar to what you're experiencing domestically? Are the same categories not working? Just a little bit more detail there.
I'd answer that question saying yes it's generally the same.
Our next question will come from Barbara Wyckoff CLSA.
Research Division</strong> On the stores that are closing should we assume that most of them are domestic? Are any of them [Audio Gap] They're all domestic Barbara yes.
Other than the Gilly Hicks stores again that we're opening -- that we plan to close in the first quarter of '14 the others closed this year are all domestic.
Next we have Janet Kloppenburg JJK Research.
A couple of questions.
For Jonathan you talked about -- I think you said that you expect a greater expense savings on the store and distribution level and perhaps the MG&amp;A level in the fourth quarter.
Maybe you could give us a little more detail there where it's coming from the magnitude of the change and also if we should expect incrementally lower store and distribution MG&amp;A as we go forward quarter-by-quarter next year.
And Mike I wondered if the testing process had been conducted on the spring -- on the women's spring top assortments and how confident you are in the performance of that category in the spring season.
Okay.
Janet on the first part of the question the reference wasn't really to the split between MG&amp;A stores and distribution.
What we were saying is that in the third quarter we have started to realize some savings across both line items relative to the profit-improvement initiative.
We anticipate there's going to be a somewhat greater amount of savings in Q4.
But regardless of that we anticipate that we'll be at least $100 million of incremental savings going forward beyond that most of which we'd recognize in fiscal 2014.
And that excludes any potential additional savings that we're able to finalize between now and the end of the year that Mike referenced in his comments earlier on.
Janet in relation to the testing the answer is we improved as a percent tested as we move through spring season.
While the initial spring set is tested the percentage isn't 100%.
We're really getting better at this on an ongoing basis and I would say we're really going to be harvesting the major percentage of this improvement for back-to-school.
Just Janet coming back to your point about progression during the year there will be some degree of progression in terms of the realization of the savings as various initiatives get put into effect.
But we do anticipate again that we will recognize most of that $100 million incremental in '14.
And then to the extent that there are additional savings coming from the store pilots or other areas we should be able to effect those pretty quickly in 2014 as well.
Paul Lejuez Wells Fargo has our next question.
LLC Research Division</strong> We've seen negative comps in the international business for 2 years.
Can you maybe talk about where you feel comfortable that you've seen a bottom from a sales productivity perspective? In what particular markets or flagship stores do you feel like you've kind of bottomed out so that we could at least start thinking about the productivity not falling further? Yes.
I'd give a little bit of color on that Paul.
I mean obviously we are comping negatively across a great majority of the countries that we're in.
There are couple of places where that's not the case.
We talked about Sweden in the past.
Obviously China we're doing much better than that.
Actually Japan has turned from a comp standpoint the stores we have in the base over there.
But in most of our countries in Europe Hollister and A&amp;F are comping negatively at this point so I don't think we're ready to say that we've -- we're necessarily at the bottom of the cycle.
What we can say is if we look at the -- what's baked into the guidance for this year in terms of international our Hollister European stores will still be very close to 30% on a four-wall basis I think 29% right around there.
A&amp;F is -- the range of performance in A&amp;F is a little broader.
But the overall four-wall for A&amp;F in Europe for the year will be a couple of points below that but still in the mid-20s for the year despite that 2 years of negative comp.
And then as we said at the Investor Day a couple of weeks ago Hollister stores in Europe is still running 30% north of more productivity on average.
So short answer is we don't know.
I don't think we're ready to say that the comp trend has bottomed out.
We haven't seen that yet.
But the overall economics today remain very profitable very cash-generative.
Our next question will come from Brian Tunick JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> So 2 questions.
Just I guess as we look ahead Jonathan the puts and takes on gross margin for this company next year and the year beyond.
I guess you came into 2013 I think you were under-inventoried and that obviously helped gross margins.
And then we're trying to think about your view on international margins.
It's hard for us obviously to see the promotional activity over there.
But do you think you'll be able to maintain the premium pricing abroad especially if comps remained down double digits? And then second question I guess is on the buyback.
Obviously there was nothing this quarter.
As you move through the next quarter or 2 and you get to this cash balance can we expect you to be back in the market? Brian so a couple of things there.
With regards to maintaining premium pricing abroad yes we do.
We've had to be a little more promotional and participate in some of the sort of seasonal events that other retailers do.
And bear in mind that it's a highly promotional environment in much of Europe as well so there is a need to some degree to compete with that.
And I think that's partly what you saw in the third quarter.
But also keep in mind that strategically our footprint in Europe puts us in a much better position to protect that premium pricing than in the U.S.
We've constrained store count.
We're only in the best possible malls and again we are continuing to run well ahead of the mall in terms of productivity.
With regard to gross margin for 2014 it's a little early at this point for us to really get into any details of that.
I think at this point we would be disappointed if we couldn't at least maintain 2013 full year gross margin but we'll give more color on that coming into the year and the various puts and takes that will go into that.
With regard to buybacks we typically don't give specific forward-looking guidance quarter-by-quarter.
Our overall philosophy is what it's been for a long time which is we want to protect to a minimum cash amount of $350 million in the trough point in the cycle.
Beyond that we would expect to be deploying free cash flow towards buybacks if we believe the stock is attractively priced on a long-term basis.
So that philosophy hasn't changed.
We bought back significant amounts of stock over the past couple of years under that philosophy.
We use the term loan proceeds to augment that.
And in broad terms we would certainly expect to be in the market going forward buying back stock and as we said at the Investor Day that we believe is going to be a significant component of how we drive long-term shareholder value.
[Operator Instructions] Next we will hear from Dana Telsey Telsey Advisory Group.
Can you talk a little bit about -- on the U.S.
store side where the operating margin declined pretty significantly this quarter as you think about what -- you think about next year after the cost cutting is done what should a steady-state operating margin rate be? And how do you bucket that between gross margin and SG&amp;A? Dana I think that kind of goes into the same bucket of it's a little early for us to start giving specifics on questions like that given we haven't come out with guidance for 2014 and the cost-saving process is not yet complete nor is our budget for 2014.
So I think we'll be able to give a lot more color on that by the end of the year.
But it's a little early to start breaking that out at this point.
As we said a minute ago we'd be disappointed overall if we couldn't at least maintain our gross margin rate on a full year basis in 2014.
And then to the extent we're getting traction beyond that with our strategic initiatives we said our objective is to get AURs up over time which hopefully would enable us to achieve some improvement in gross margin rate.
Next is Lindsay Drucker Mann Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 quick questions.
First Jonathan on the SG&amp;A savings the update that you hope to give us before the next earnings call the buckets can you just identify the buckets of areas you think you may be able to identify savings from? You talked about the store prototypes but I was hoping you could detail any other areas we should consider in that sort of list of items.
And then secondly your gross margin guidance for the full year for flattish implies pretty sharp deterioration versus the third quarter run rate even though comps are -- it seems like your comp guidance is for similarly poor performance.
I was wondering if you could break down the buckets of that.
So how much of it is 53rd week if any how much of it is specific inventory write-downs that might be lumping excess charges into the fourth quarter versus other quarters? Maybe just help me to understand the drivers there.
Sure.
I mean with regard to SG&amp;A savings for 2014 the biggest area of potential additional opportunity is in the store operations area Lindsay.
That comes back to -- it's not really the store prototypes which when we refer to that we're talking about a new model for the physical layout of the stores but the store pilot projects that we've been doing and that Brian went into some detail on in the analyst event.
So that's clearly the greatest area of additional opportunity although we continue to scour all other areas of expense for potential opportunities as we come towards closing our budget for 2014.
With regard to the gross margin rate in fourth quarter we are -- we have baked into that the assumption that we're going to need to be incrementally more promotional than we were in the third quarter.
Only some of our competitors were more promotional in the third quarter took rate down and we're able to achieve somewhat better comps as a result of that.
We're assuming that the overall environment as Mike said earlier is going to remain very difficult and that we're going to need to take our AURs down to be competitive and that's what is primarily driving the gross margin rate erosion that's baked into the guidance.
Our next question will come from Steph Wissink Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> I want to just follow up to an earlier question regarding the comp.
Mike if you could just take us through the rebuilding of the comp rates in this double-digit level now to more of a flat level.
I think you mentioned markdowns were a piece of it declines in pricing and then the women's tops business.
Could you just again help us kind of step function the relative degrees of impacts from those areas? Okay.
I think if I'm understanding your question comp rate [indiscernible] okay.
Here is the strategy for getting the comp rate to improve and I think it's important to list all these factors.
One reducing redundancy in our assortment through increased differentiation in styles and that's not only within the current assortment but also between seasons and deliveries and between the brands that's one.
Two increasing the cadence of fashion in the assortment which is going to make the assortment look fresh and new.
Three utilizing more sophisticated testing.
Four reacting faster and reducing lead times and that's going to be done.
We've talked about this before and we're doing this but we're doing more of it as we go forward through shorter development cycle increased fabric platforming increased vendor collaboration more sourcing in the Americas and very important reserving more open-to-buy for chase.
These are the merchandise initiatives especially for female tops but for the whole business which we believe will take us to a better top line which as you're saying is taking the comps negative to positive.
In addition to the merchandise initiatives I think it's very important to note that we have to combine this with marketing investments.
And we're very excited about this because we have to build traffic as a part of this which we believe will make our brands stand out and grow.
We hope to see the benefits of these initiatives by back-to-school.
Oliver Chen with Citi has our next question.
Research Division</strong> As you do prioritize fashion tops and women's fashion tops could you just explain the dynamic in terms of the plans to reduce the number of SKUs simultaneously? Also in your expectation of this happening should we expect the comps and the gross margin to kind of improve in sync as you realize higher AUR? And Mike given that you've been really experienced in retail do you think 30% is the new normal? And how do you think about next year as we have trouble from our perch kind of figuring out how we get out of this intensely promotional type of competitive environment? Well let me answer the last part of the question first.
I think we get out of it by the total segment becoming healthier.
Young apparel is a very challenged business today.
I think that that will improve.
I think there are pressures on young people today in terms of how they're spending their money but I think those pressures will abate.
So I think the whole segment will get better.
And then I think we'll get better as we improve the operations of the business and all of the factors I mentioned -- I just mentioned will result in us running a better regular-priced business.
I think that the conversation of reducing the SKU count is there's been too much made of that.
It's an in-store SKU count reduction and I believe we've built too much into that guys.
I think maybe too much was made of that in the session.
This is an in-store SKU count reduction and in fact our DTC SKU count is being dramatically increased.
It gets to the same matters that I just related to in terms of how we're going to drive the business which I think is exclusive of the SKU count conversation.
Our next question comes from Thomas Filandro Susquehanna Financial Group.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Mike I was wondering when you guys plan to take a more aggressive stance at merchandising and/or marketing in the lease line of the stores since you've -- I think you've removed all the louvers.
I guess first update us on the louvers removals? And then if you can update us on when you plan to take a more aggressive stance on merchandising or marketing those windows.
Good question Tom.
The louvers have been removed.
You will see more aggressive marketing on those windows next week.
See you on Thursday.
We'll have Tom some of the new Hollister prototypes with the -- that we showcased at the analyst event.
We'll be up and running in the first quarter which will give us an opportunity to do the same thing in those stores.
Next is Adrienne Tennant Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Mike I was wondering if you can share more of some of the findings of the consulting study specifically how the customer perceives the brand in the United States.
And were there any surprises coming out of the study about brand perception? Adrienne we're still sifting through that information.
We have quantitative analyses but we're sifting through the qualitative.
I'll be prepared to get into more detail on the next call.
Next is Matt McClintock Barclays.
Research Division</strong> The question I have Mike in your prepared remarks you outlined 4 priorities.
The fourth one was ensuring that you're properly organized to execute on the strategic plan.
And I was wondering if you could elaborate more on that specifically.
As you think about the longer term -- how do you think about the longer-term evolution of the organization itself once you've managed through the cost restructuring and some of the near-term challenges that you're facing? We have real commitment here to succession management and we want to make sure that we're properly organized to achieve our current long-term plan but -- to look to the future.
We've got a -- we've gotten quite a few people from the outside DTC marketing procurement store design what else strategic planning.
We have a really strong bench in merchandise talent as we're harvesting the result of this aggressive recruitment college recruitment program over the last 15 years.
But we need to sit and ask if we're strong everywhere as we need to be.
We are going through that review process right now and we'd hope to have some more information for you probably on our next earnings call.
Part of this organization has to do with giving more bottom line orientation to the people in the business so as they grow they'll be experienced in handling bottom line responsibility.
We think that that should give us a pretty good lift as soon as we get our hands around that organization.
So expect more information on the conversation of organization.
Simeon Siegel with Nomura has our next question.
Research Division</strong> So Mike in light of your comments around the promotionally driven top line improvement I guess in October some of your peers mentioned lean inventories.
If the promos are helping to drive some improvement can the units you have actually help drive better comp over the promotional holiday? And then Jonathan with regard to that inventory can you just break down the composition of this quarter's increase? And then just lastly to clarify quickly from beforehand are there any Gilly inventory write-downs embedded in the Q4 gross margin guidance? And can you quantify that calendar shift impact to gross margin that you mentioned? I'll let Jonathan handle both of those questions.
Okay.
So let me start with the comments about inventory markdowns in the fourth quarter.
No at this point we baked in the lower cost of market inventory write-downs for Gilly that we think we need to run out the remaining product obviously beyond the ongoing assortment which is subject to the ongoing lower cost of market evaluation.
So that $5.3 million hit we took in Q3 is essentially the clean-up of the incremental write-downs we need to take because of the restructuring as well as some normal lower cost of market adjustments that occurred in Q3.
In terms of the comments about promo in October and the promos driving improvement I think the way we look at it again we're going to need to be pretty promotional we assume in the fourth quarter to drive even the relatively modest comp improvement that we've baked into our guidance.
We're assuming it's going to be a tough environment.
To your point yes we do have the inventory to support the promotional strategy we have baked into our plans for the quarter.
So we'll obviously see how that plays out as we go through the quarter.
Was there another part of the question? Oh inventory breakdown for the end of Q3.
We did have greater in-transit year-over-year.
That was a component of what was rolling into that overall increase.
Again our primary focus for inventory is that when we exit the year we're going to have an appropriate level of fall carryover inventory.
And that's what a lot of our AUR and other strategies are directed towards for the quarter and we're comfortable that we're heading towards that.
The spring inventory at the end of the year will be higher because of the very low levels we had last year the very low in-transit levels we had as well.
So spring inventory will be up fairly significantly but fall inventory we're working to have in a very healthy position rolling over into Q1.
Healthy position but still a little heavier than last year because we had practically no fall.
Yes.
Which could give us a few more opportunity.
Our next question will come from Paul Alexander Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Can you guys tell us a little bit more about the mechanics of the testing program? Where in the life cycle of the product are you going to be testing? Are you going to be testing finished product to get an idea of how much to order or chase? Or will you be testing product attributes like color and silhouette? And also getting to 100% of testing how will you manage all that increased testing? Are you going to have to hire more merchants? Or can you do this with your existing teams? Paul I'd rather not get into the specifics of the testing program.
It's pretty sophisticated and we're already kind of delighted with what's happening.
In terms of workload it's perhaps a little more intensive for both design and merchandising.
But because we're testing at every point of the process from concept to finished product we're getting some efficiencies.
Next we'll hear from Anna Andreeva Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Good to hear that October trends improved for the business although modestly.
Was that consistent across brands and also international versus domestic? And your guidance for comps to be down low-double digits for the fourth quarter I guess embeds some improvement in the trend.
Just curious what are you seeing so far in November.
And then finally just a follow-up on AURs.
What was AUR decline in the third quarter? And what should we expect for 4Q? Yes.
I'll start with the first part Anna.
The October trend improvement was across brands and there was improvement in international and domestic but more in domestic.
But also I think as we said earlier I wouldn't put too much into that.
Clearly we're more promotional.
That contributed and there were some other factors in terms of what we were lapping year-over-year in October that helped.
So we think there was a bit of a pickup in the underlying trend.
But yes I wouldn't take that too far at this point.
We typically don't comment on current quarter-to-date business on these calls.
Our projection for the quarter is based on our standard model which is a 13-week trailing trend with greater weighting being given to the most recent weeks.
That gives us an outlook for the quarter and that's what our guidance is based on.
And that obviously rolls into direct-to-consumer business in that since that was part of comp.
With regard to the AUR decline in Q3 and what we expect in Q4 what we're signaling obviously is we're going to have a greater decline in AUR in Q4 certainly adjusted for mix and other factors given the expectation that we will need to be more promotional in Q4 to get to where we need to be at the end of the year.
Next we'll hear from Dorothy Lakner Topeka Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> You gave a lot of helpful information at the meeting regarding your timeline for when we should see certain changes.
And I just wondered in terms of the greater differentiation you're looking to do between Hollister and A&amp;F is that just going to roll in kind of gradually.
Should we really look for that to be full impact back-to-school next year? Just wondered if you could speak to that.
And then also on the kids business the kids comps are quite a bit better than the overall business.
I just wondered what's helping you there.
And what your thoughts are in general on kids? Okay.
Let me take a stab at this.
In terms of differentiation between Hollister and A&amp;F twofold: one is product and two is marketing.
You'll see a continued emphasis on differentiation as we proceed through the year in product.
You will start to see better differentiation in marketing as of spring and clearly by back-to-school we hope that you see an appreciable difference.
In terms of the kids business I really believe that the difference is the parents are buying the products there.
Our next question will come from Betty Chen Mizuho Securities.
Research Division</strong> As we get into next year and start to think about the new merchandise that will be hitting around back-to-school especially is there any difference in terms of the pricing architecture? I know at the analyst event you mentioned that AUR will be an opportunity because of lower redlines and promotions.
But how about in terms of the initial markup? Are you testing that as part of your testing process on how your pricing is being received by the customer base? And will we see any changes on that front? I don't know how...
I think what we've said I mean really it's about promotions and clearance is what we're thinking Betty is going to help us get the AUR back up.
It's not really about ticket strategy as much.
So it's being less -- having a lower proportion of clearance and being less promotional.
Right.
And driving that clearance percentage down is critical which is related primarily to differentiated products.
So we're not competing with ourselves in the backroom major initiative.
And I mentioned that as #1 in terms of initiative.
Next we will hear from John Morris BMO Capital Markets.
Kind of 2 quick parts here Mike.
You've done a great job outlining some of the work that you're doing from the merchandising standpoint and the initiatives.
And you have talked a little bit to the marketing obviously the products coming first.
The marketing you said it will be kind of fully evolved by back-to-school but some small scale changes in the spring.
So wondering what your thoughts are about that and your philosophy your approach to that in terms of what we might see smaller scale.
And then Jonathan just a quick update on the London flagship.
I think last quarter you said it was flattish comp and I'm just wondering kind of the trend.
Any quick update there as well? I think John the marketing initiatives are very exciting.
Beyond a full-blown campaign we're doing a lot of testing in a lot of different areas.
What's going on I don't need to say to you in terms of newness and the way to deliver messages to our target customers are enormously exciting.
So we're fully engaged in new ways of delivering message as well as what the message is and we're doing an enormous amount of testing there.
Now to go to the...
On the London flagship John we did see a step down there consistent with what we saw in the international comp from Q3 to Q2.
Bridget Weishaar with MorningStar is next.
Research Division</strong> I know that you highlighted that women's tops were weak.
I'm wondering if women's in general had weaker comps across the board than guys.
And so if you could give any detail if it's on traffic or conversion.
And the third piece of the question is are you -- can you highlight any ongoing marketing campaigns that are specifically targeting that weakness? Women's had weaker comps than men's.
However the real weakness was in women's tops.
Traffic or conversion traffic is a total company so I think it's difficult to talk about traffic in terms of that category.
Although overall traffic is correlated pretty well with comps.
So we would assume it is more traffic than conversion on the female side because of that.
Yes.
Any particularly marketing campaigns specific to that category I would rather not talk to that.
Our final question today will come from John Kernan with Cowen.
LLC Research Division</strong> Helpful color on inventory and where you expect to finish the year.
What do you see in terms of unit costs for next year? We've heard some companies talk about unit costs up in the low-single-digit range.
And just wondering how you're factoring in any inflation whether labor or cost into your gross margin next year.
Yes.
I guess John it's a little bit early for us to get into a lot of specifics on gross margin for '14.
But the broad comment we made earlier reflects -- about being disappointed to not at least hold 2013 rate would reflect what we're currently seeing in AUC which broadly based on what you just referenced wouldn't be that different to what you're hearing elsewhere.
And that does conclude today's question-and-answer session and also concludes today's conference call.
Thank you very much for your participation.
Thank you everyone.
Thank you.
Good day and welcome to the Abercrombie &amp; Fitch Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions].
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Brian Logan.
Mr.
Logan please go ahead.
Good morning and welcome to our fourth quarter earnings call.
Earlier today we released our fourth quarter sales and earnings income statements balance sheet store opening and closing summary and an updated financial history.
Please feel free to reference these materials available on our website.
Also available on our website is an investor presentation which we will be referring to in our comments during this call.
Today's earnings call is being recorded and the replay may be accessed through the internet at abercrombie.com under the Investors section.
The call is scheduled for one hour; joining me today are Mike Jeffries and Jonathan Ramsden.
Before we begin I remind you that any forward-looking statements we may make today are subject to the Safe Harbor statement found in our SEC filings.
In addition due to the 53rd week in the fiscal 2012 retail year fourth quarter comparable sales are compared to the 13-week period ended February 2 2013.
After our prepared comments this morning we will be available to take your questions for as long as time permits.
With that I will hand it over to Mike for some opening remarks.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
2013 was a challenging year with sales and earnings falling well short of the [indiscernible] we set at the beginning of the year.
After three years of positive growth and our combined U.S.
chain store plus direct-to-consumer comparable sales metric that metric turns negative for 2013 against the backdrop of a challenging retail environment particularly in the teen space.
The significant decline in store traffic that began in July continued through the holiday season and as yet has shown no sign of abating.
Despite that difficult context it is important that we return to positive growth particularly in our core-U.S.
business and the steps we are taking as we execute against our long range strategic plan should put us in a position to achieve this goal.
For the fourth quarter we were pleased to see some sequential sales improvement and that we were able to exceed our earnings guidance coming into the quarter.
In addition our direct-to-consumer business was particularly strong and represented nearly 25% of total sales for the quarter up in all regions with particularly strong growth in Asia.
We are also pleased by the excellent results we are seeing in our new stores in China and Japan.
We now have seven Hollister stores in Mainland China including our newest stores at the IST Mall in Nanjing.
Overall our stores in China posted a 35% increase in comparable store sales for the year.
We look forward to the opening of our Shanghai A&amp;F flagship store in April which will further support our growing brand awareness in Asia.
We plan to open approximately five additional stores in China in 2014 including two mall-based A&amp;F stores.
In Japan we opened our second Hollister store at Lalaport Shin Misato in Tokyo during the quarter.
Similar to our first store in Yokohama volume is annualizing at more than twice our initial plan and four wall margins are well above our hurdle rates.
These stores have been an important test for us and we are reviewing our ability to accelerate our plans in Japan given the success we have seen.
During the quarter we also opened our first store in the Middle East at the Mall of the Emirates in Dubai.
This store is also exceeding our initial projected volume and is on track to be one of the top Hollister stores globally.
We look forward to additional openings in the Middle East in 2014.
While showing some modest improvement comps across most countries in Europe remain significantly negative with Scandinavia again being an exception.
The general economic outlook in Europe remains uncertain with youth unemployment remaining stubbornly high in most of our core markets.
Notwithstanding the sustained comp declines we have seen our productivity in Europe remains well above the mall average.
From a merchandise standpoint we performed well in outerwear for the quarter with comps up strongly across genders and brands.
We continue to see high potential in this category.
Our accessories underwear and intimates businesses also did well for the quarter and our denim business remains solid comping positively on across [indiscernible].
In our last earnings call we laid our four key priority areas and I would like to take a few minutes to speak to each of those.
First continuing to improve fashion in our female business is a critical objective and ties very closely to our objective of driving productivity from our U.S.
stores.
We are taking aggressive steps to evolve our assortment and shorten lead times and increased style differentiation.
Lowering our average unit cost will also help us to be more competitive on AURs in this part of the business.
We are now testing close to 100% of our assortment and we have new technology that enables us to test much earlier in the product development cycle.
We are deploying new fabric platforming processes that are reducing lead times particularly in Chase which is now a significant component of our fashion business and we will begin to include shorter lead times vendor designed product in our assortments for the first time this quarter.
Our second key priority is increasing brand engagement through enhanced marketing initiatives and campaigns.
During the fourth quarter we spent an incremental $5 million in marketing which produced good results.
For 2014 we are approaching this aggressively including a significant increase in planned marketing expense.
We will launch a global marketing campaign for Hollister this summer featuring an evolved positioning which we are very excited about.
We are committing significant spend toward the campaign which will be delivered through events key offers and social media.
For A&amp;F we expect the launch of a similar campaign for back-to-school.
Both campaigns are leveraging our in-depth customer research and are also benefiting from the learnings of our additional marketing spend in the fourth quarter.
This included an aggressive push to reach more fashion bloggers which has generated more than 17 million impressions to-date.
We are a leader in social media partnering with Facebook and Twitter to unlock new customer targeting opportunities over the Black Friday and winter sale periods.
We are also excited about the latest installment of our A&amp;F rising stars campaign which features seven new faces across movies television and music.
To date we have generated over 100 million media impressions related to this campaign appearing on Access Hollywood E! Teen Vogue and other relevant media.
In addition our first A&amp;F star Twitter chat with actor Diego Boneta was a trending topic on Twitter.
Third we made excellent progress on the restructuring of our cost base and Jonathan will give more details on this in a moment.
As we move forward we believe the next big area of opportunity lies in lowering our merchandise average unit cost.
Our average unit cost will be down on a full year basis for 2014 weighted towards the back half of the year and we see additional opportunity as we move growth particularly for Hollister.
Fourth we continue to focus on ensuring we are properly organized to execute against our strategic plan.
We are making progress on our search for our brand precedence and next month we will move to a vertical organization structure by brand for most of our categories in design merchandising and planning.
We believe these actions will support a number of key objectives including increased brand differentiation and increased accountability.
[Indiscernible] for immediate priorities we continue to focus on disciplined execution against our long term plan initiatives.
From a strategic standpoint it is clear that we need to be thinking outside of the confines of our existing vertical specialty retail model.
This includes looking at selling third party brands through our channels and selling our branded merchandise through third party channels.
As you know the partnership between Kids and Hollister was very successful last fall and we are continuing that collaboration with new SKUs later this year.
We have a long list of additional collaborations in the work across footwear apparel and accessories which we are excited to launch in the coming months.
We know our target customer values in these [indiscernible] and we believe they can improve our brand positioning while driving incremental sales and margin.
As we look forward to 2014 and beyond there is much work ahead of us as we navigate a rapidly changing difficult and uncertain environment.
However we are encouraged by the progress we are making as we continue to execute against our long ranged plan objectives and are committed to achieving meaningful improvements in our business.
Now let's go to Jonathan.
Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
I will start with a short recap for the quarter and then talk about our outlook for 2014 and the key drivers of our longer term financial objectives.
For the quarter the company's net sales were $1.299 billion down 12% to last year with approximately 6% of the decline attributable to the extra week in last year's fiscal quarter.
including DTC total comp sales were down 8% with comp store sales down 16% and comp DTC sales up 24%.
Total DTC sales including shipping and handling were up 18%.
Total U.S.
sales including DTC were down 13% with comp sales down 8%.
Total international sales including DTC were down 9% with comp sales also down 9%.
Overall sales are better than expected particularly during the holiday season.
Within the quarter comparable sales were weakest in January reflecting in part significantly lower promotional activity compared to last year.
The gross margin rate for the quarter was 440 basis points lower year-over-year which was in line with expectations and reflected an increase in promotional activity during the high volume holiday season including shifting promotions in the direct-to-consumer business and an adverse effect from the calendar shift.
While on an adjusted non-GAAP basis operating expense for the quarter was $621 million versus $692 million last year.
This excludes pre-tax charges of $44 million which are detailed on page 4 of our investor presentation.
The expenses for the quarter came in significantly below forecast as we were able to accelerate savings from the profit improvement initiative which totaled approximately $25 million for the quarter.
This was partially offset by additional marketing expense of approximately $5 million for the quarter.
On an adjusted non-GAAP basis operating income for the quarter was $155 million versus $252 million a year ago.
Operating margin on an adjusted basis decreased 530 basis points primarily resulting from gross margin erosion.
The tax rate for the quarter excluding effective charges was 31.4% which reflects a benefit from a higher proportion of earnings being generated from international operations than previously expected.
For the quarter the company reported adjusted non-GAAP EPS of $1.34 versus $2.01 last year.
Relative to initial guidance for the quarter results are better than expected due to higher sales and gross profit greater expense savings and a lower tax rate with each contributing approximately equally.
Turning to the balance sheet we ended the quarter with approximately $600 million in cash and cash equivalents and borrowings under the term loan of $135 million.
We ended the quarter with total inventory costs of 24% versus the low levels a year ago due to in-transit significantly contributing to the increase.
Excluding in-transit inventory was up 16% and by a somewhat lesser amount on a unit basis.
Also keep in mind that the increase this year is of a $0.37 decrease last year due to low fall carryover inventory delayed spin receipts and less inventory in-transit.
On a two year basis inventory is down 22%.
During the quarter we closed 16 of our standalone Gilly Hicks stores and incurred charges of approximately $37 million related to the restructuring.
We expect the remaining stores to be substantially close by the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2014.
Excluding charges associated with the restructuring we incurred an operating loss of approximately $30 million related to Gilly Hicks for the fiscal year.
We expect to incur approximately $10 million in additional charges associated with Gilly Hicks in 2014 and that excluding those charges the brand will operate on a breakeven basis.
Excluding Gilly Hicks we closed 46 U.S.
stores during the year bringing a total closure since 2010 to 220.
Turning to 2014 and beyond our financial objective remains to drive significant improvement on return on invested capital through a combination of disciplined capital allocation and operating margin improvement.
Starting with capital allocation we anticipate 2014 capital expenditures of around $200 million or slightly greater which includes the effects of some timing shifts from 2013.
As discussed at our Investor Day in November our 2014 capital expenditures are prioritized towards DTC and IT investments to support growth initiatives.
This includes the major projects to reconfigure one of our distribution centers here in New Albany to be a dedicated direct-to-consumer facility.
This will provide the additional infrastructure necessary to support unit volume growth from our expanding web exclusive assortment and also improve processing speed.
CapEx related to new international store openings will be significantly lower than in recent years and prioritize towards key growth markets of Japan China and the Middle East.
We expect to open 16 full priced international stores throughout the year including the A&amp;F flagship store in Shanghai and a small number of A&amp;F mall-based stores.
Overall our ROI on 2014 CapEx is expected to comfortably exceed our 30% objective.
As we announced earlier this morning the board has approved $150 million accelerated share repurchase to be executed during the first quarter this year into the existing open share repurchase authorization of 16.3 million shares.
The accelerated share repurchase reflects our confidence in our ability to achieve significantly improved performance and create sustainable value for our shareholders.
We anticipate additional share repurchases over the course of the year utilizing free cash flow generated from operations in addition to utilization of existing or additional credit facilities.
With regards to operating margin improvement in our November Investor Day presentation we identified four key drivers.
The improvement in U.S.
store productivity in AUR growth in DTC penetration profitable international growth and cost reduction.
On cost reduction we now expect gross savings from our profit improvement initiatives to be at least $175 million of which approximately $30 million was recognized in 2013 and an incremental $145 million will be recognized in 2014.
We expect to realize some additional savings beyond 2014.
The majority of these savings are included in operating expense with a smaller element included in gross margin.
Over half of the savings been generated are expected to come from store operations work stream other areas of significant savings are stores repair and maintenance store packaging and supplies IT and corporate overhead.
Partially offsetting these savings we expect to increase 2014 marketing expenditures by approximately $30 million or greater as compared to 2013 with the expenses skewed disproportionately towards the first half of the year.
This is on top of the additional $5 million we spent in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Going forward as Mike alluded to we believe there is potential to achieve meaningful savings in AUC beyond the modest reduction baked into our 2014 outlook particularly with regards to Hollister.
On DTC we anticipate another year of strong growth in 2014 both in the U.S.
and internationally with the segment margin remaining in the mid to upper 30s.
The investments we have made in the DTC business resulted in conversion rates being up significantly across all sites in 2013 and we plan to continue to invest in DTC including increasing our assortment of web exclusive styles completing the order management system upgrades to support on-the-channel initiatives advancing mobile capabilities and expanding international language and payment options.
With regard to U.S.
school productivity alongside some of the initiatives Mike referenced we continue to see store closures as a significant part of the equation.
We currently expected to close 60 to 70 stores in the U.S.
during 2014 through natural lease expirations.
Significantly our average remaining lease term per U.S.
chain stores has roughly halved in the past three years and we have over 500 leases up for renewal between now and the end of 2016.
This gives us significant flexibility to respond to changing retail dynamics in U.S.
Moving on to our earnings outlook for 2014 based on assumption of a high single digit decline in comparable store sales and an approximate 20% increase in comparable direct-to-consumer sales the company projects full year diluted earnings per share in the range of $2.15 to $2.35.
The sales projection does not include any benefit the company may realize during the year from its long range pan initiatives but also does not reflect further potential deterioration in underlying trends.
The guidance assumes a gross margin rate for the full year that is flat to down slightly compared to fiscal 2013 with continuing AUR pressure and lower shipping and handling revenues relative to sales offsetting AUC improvement and the benefit from the company's profit improvement initiatives.
The above guidance does not including remaining charges related to the restructuring of the Gilly Hicks brand other impairment and store closure charges or charges related to the implementation of the profit improvement initiative.
We anticipate a full year tax rate of approximately 35% and a weighted average share count of approximately 78 million shares excluding the effect of share repurchases including those pursuant to the announced accelerated share repurchase.
With that I am going to hand it over to Brian to provide some more details on our results for the quarter.
Thanks Jonathan.
As reported fourth quarter comp sales were down 8%.
By brand comp sales including direct-to-consumer were down 6% for Abercrombie &amp; Fitch down 8% for Abercrombie Kids and down 10% for Hollister.
Across brands female performance remains weaker than male.
Changes in foreign currency exchange rates versus a year ago benefited sales by approximately $9 million.
Also due to the extra week in the fiscal 2012 calendar sales for the prior year comparable 13-week period ended February 2 2013 had approximately $82 million less in sales versus the reported 14-week period ended February 2 2013 which adversely affected fourth quarter year-over-year sales and earnings.
The gross profit rate for the fourth quarter was 59.0% 440 basis points lower than last year's fourth quarter gross margin rate reflecting an increase in promotional activity.
Stores and distribution expense for the quarter was $506 million down from $570 million last year.
The stores and distribution expense rate for the quarter was 38.9% approximately flat to last year.
Expense savings in store payroll for our management and support and other store and distribution expense including accelerated savings resulted from profit improvement initiatives were offset by the deleverage effect of negative comparable sales and higher direct-to-consumer expense.
MG&amp;A expense for the quarter was $119 million versus $122 million last year.
MG&amp;A expense for the quarter included $3 million of charges related to the profit-improvement initiatives.
Excluding these charges MG&amp;A expense for the quarter was down $7 million a decrease of 6% versus last year.
Details of our international Hollister store openings for the quarter are included on the slide on page 9 of the investor presentation.
At the end of the quarter we operated 843 stores in the U.S.
and 163 stores in Canada Europe Asia and Australia.
This concludes our prepared comments.
We will now take your questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question today will come from Stephanie Wissink Piper Jaffray.
Mike and Jonathan a question for you just on one of the strategies you outlined relative to [indiscernible] productivity initiative.
I think Mike you mentioned that an improved AUR that's core to that strategy but Jonathan you also mentioned in your gross margin guidance post 2014 that you would expect some AUR decline.
So just a reflection of 2014 being a transitional year along that improvement plan or is there something in your consumer insights that's [indiscernible] thinking the merchandise pricing structure? Let me respond to that Steph.
We have a number of initiatives to improve our AUR and we have gone over those before but I will go over them again introducing markdowns and promotions to being more conservative with our upfront buys evolving the testing of our assortment reducing lead times to react more quickly to our tests; increased style differentiation and refining our presentation standards and improving our allocation accuracy.
These are a few points the list is really longer.
But and this is a very big but we currently operate in a very challenging retail environment and we really expect AURs to come down.
That would be offset by some of these initiatives but we do expect AURs to come down.
We need to be competitive on price particularly female fashion and aggressively look as I said in my statement to reduce AUC to give us that flexibility.
This is a very important part of our strategy.
Thank you.
Best of luck guys.
Thank you Steph.
Next is Brian Tunick J.P.
Morgan.
Thanks.
Morning guys.
My question is I guess on the vertical structure by brand I think that's obviously new to all of us and how you're thinking about it going out and announcing brand precedence lot of things happening on the board level.
Can you may be talk about Mike sort of your view of what kind of people you want to have running Hollister and Abercrombie's brand presidents and how you think the vertical structure is going to look a lot different than how you typically run the company horizontally by product category? Thanks very much.
I think what people were looking for and I have to say we found that there are some very well qualified people who are interested in joining this company.
But they need a general management background in addition to being product oriented.
Branding initiative will enable us to have more distinguished products product that's different from one brand to the next and also will enable us through new insight with these new people to look at the business a little differently.
It is a different concept but one that I think is really appropriate for where the business is now.
I don't think that we are going to lose category dominance while doing [indiscernible].
I think we will still be category specialists.
A good question Brian.
Our next question will come from Randy Konik with Jefferies.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
I guess my question would be more for Jonathan.
If you think about the 2014 outlook in terms of your visibility around that how would you compare in contrast that to when you gave the 2013 outlook as it relates specifically to your visibility around the sales line your visibility around the gross margin line and your visibility around the EPS line.
Where do you feel most comfortable with those numbers that you gave this morning and where do you feel least comfortable? Hey Randy.
I think if you look back at 2013 clearly what happened was there was a huge change in traffic in July and went on for the rest of the year and my belief [indiscernible] comments has continued to date.
So by the way in the first quarter we will not be able to [indiscernible].
So that is a change in the trajectory of the business to a number of factors none of which necessarily fully explains why you have such an abrupt change that has obviously been widely reported across the industry.
So I think the environment is uncertain its particularly uncertain when we get back to school in July and start to lap that decline what will happen.
So we have taken an approach we have taken in the past to projecting sales based on the recent trends.
But I stick [ph] to your point the range of outcomes is broader than necessarily embedded in the guidance outlook and I think there is uncertainty out there still.
Can you hear me? Yeah.
Go ahead Randy.
I guess my question I guess specifically if you take the three buckets the sales line the gross margin line and the EPS line do you feel most confident in EPS number given you have a cushion of share buyback you have these cost cuts that are coming through do you feel pretty confident in the gross margin line because of any talks of AUC declines offset by AUR kind of declines I guess.
Then would you say that the least amount of visibility in the sales line given the environment but because of the gross margin visibility you feel good about the EPS visibility.
I guess that's what I am trying to get at? I think about gross margin we have based into that a modest AUC reduction working hard to improve that.
There is some benefit from the profit improvement initiative around $12 million which is [indiscernible] the gross margin which is locked in.
And then there is a mix benefit from international growth still closed in the U.S.
and so on.
So based into that guidance of flat to slightly down in gross margin is the assumption that AURs in our core business are down year-over-year and we feel that's a reasonable assumption at this point in time.
We are obviously going back to the point Mike spoke to a second ago hopeful though the initiatives we have in place during the year will enable us to do better on AUR but we need to see that before we start baking it into our outlook.
We also have the marketing additional investments the benefit of which is not baked into sales and margin outlook for the year.
On expenses we feel very good obviously about the $175 million.
There is a potential to do a little bit better than that as we go through the year.
I think the biggest area of limited visibility is to appoint on the sales line.
So that we will see how we will play that as we go.
We feel based on what we can see today what we are projecting to is a reasonable assumption.
Very helpful.
Thank you.
Thanks Randy.
Our next question comes from Kimberly Greenberger Morgan Stanley.
Thanks so much.
Good morning.
Hi Kim.
Hey Kimberly.
My question is on international.
I am looking at the full year international floor comp down 19% that was certainly offset in part by strong growth in e-commerce.
I haven't heard you talk about the potential slow international expansion or potentially to look at some store closures there.
And if you could comment specifically on the e-commerce business are you seeing the most robust growth in dollar volume in Europe and some of your older markets may be Europe and Canada or is the majority of the incremental revenue coming from new markets in Asia? Thanks.
So Kim let me start with a little update.
DTC growth is very strong frankly in all regions particularly strong in Asia right now.
So I think its new markets in particular where we are seeing strong growth.
Europe is also strong and we are up solidly in the U.S.
as well and we foresee that continuing in spite of what we are looking to 2014.
With regards to international expansion we are opening fewer stores in 2014 with prioritizing our CapEx towards e-com towards some key IP investments we need to make and allocating less to new store openings.
We are very excited about what we are seeing though in Japan and China and the opening in the Middle East.
So we are looking at our ability to move some of that up.
With regard to store closures internationally we don't have any of those plans.
The Fukuoka outlet store that we have talked about in the past wanting to close at some point.
Beyond that there are no other stores.
But currently we don't have any plans to close internationally other than the Gilly Hicks stores in Europe.
I think the point that the European stores even with the decrease in sales are operating at sales levels that are above the mall averages they are very profitable stores.
Thank you so much.
Thanks Kimberly.
Next we will hear from Janet Kloppenburg JJK Research.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Janet.
Mike I probably heard you talk a little bit about your AUC objectives.
I know that your quality disciplines have been the best in the industry and I imagine that you will continue to be very strong with respect to having some of that quality in your space.
So I wonder where the opportunity lay and how do you think [ph] you can achieve those goals? Thank you.
I think that you are exactly right that our quality levels are the highest in the industry and we plan on maintaining those levels.
We think that the opportunity in AUC reduction is in the Hollister brand and we think that we have an opportunity to reengineer some of that product take some costs out of the products which is still maintaining the quality level that is appropriate for that customer and that brand.
Most of the cost initiatives will come from Hollister.
But as we compare A&amp;F for the rest of our competition and Hollister as we are looking at that brand and who the core customer is we will be better quality than the competition but there will be some reengineering of that product.
Is that currently representative in the assortments Mike or will we see that in the back half? You will see that in the back half.
Okay.
So that --? No.
And I would suggest Janet that you won't see anything.
Okay.
That's what I'd like to luck.
Lots of luck.
Okay.
Thank you.
Paul Lejuez of Wells Fargo is next.
Hey thanks guys.
Jonathan for you just wondering when you think about your guidance for 2014 what are the expected charges that are not included in that guidance and how much of those are cash and also are there any charges that you view as one time that are in fact included in your guidance? Then just -- well I will stop there.
Hey Paul.
Yeah the only specific charge of any significance is the $10 million of remaining charges related to the Gilly Hicks closures specifically related to European stores that we haven't closed yet.
So it’s a little bit of expense related to the profit improvement initiative that's relatively minor about $2 million.
So that's all that is not included in the guidance.
Got you.
And then just a quick one for Mike.
When you talk about selling third party brands or selling through third parties what sort of initiatives do you have in mind how extensive are we talking? Thanks Mike.
We are talking pretty extensive on third party in our existing channel.
We are introducing a number of initiatives there as the year progresses.
In terms of selling through third party this is something we are just starting to look at.
It could be a very interesting opportunity.
Interesting in terms of volume potential there.
In terms of selling third party in our channels there is a volume opportunity but it is also a positioning device for us.
Thanks guys.
Good luck.
Thank you Paul.
Next question comes from Adrienne Tennant Janney Capital Markets.
Good morning everybody.
Hi Adrienne.
Hi.
Mike another question on the AUR piece of it.
So my question is are you taking down initial tickets and if so in what categories? So I guess I am asking is the initial pricing going to be lower and more competitive with accompanying lower percentage off discounting does that make any sense? And then Jonathan for you the inventory I know there was kind of mall traffic drop off and so its hard to touch the inventory in the early half of the year.
It still seems a little bit higher than kind of where the total sales is running.
Can you give us any color on carryover versus go forward and then when should we see -- what's the inventory plans on the back half of the year when should we see that kind of more in line with sales? Thank you.
Adrienne I would love to answer the first half of your question but for competitive reasons I really can't.
I think the issue is we are going after AUC so we have opportunity.
On the inventory pot we expect them through the end of Q1 to be up but by a lesser amount than we were at the end of the year then we expect inventory to be down at the end of Q2 and for the remainder of the year.
In terms of the composition of the carryover both fall and spring inventory were up year-over-year.
We are very comfortable with the fall inventory carryover levels they were really very low with the equipment pulling last year and that affected our business and recovery in particular last year.
So we are comfortable with where we are in inventory.
Is there any color on Chinese New Year? Did you take any receipts early? Well it been a tentative number.
We do have bigger trends in number significantly higher than a year ago that's baked into the overall inventory.
As we said if we excluded in-transit inventory it was up about 16%.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Good luck.
Thank you.
Our next question will come from Matt McClintock Barclays.
Hi.
Good morning and congrats Jonathan on the recent promotion.
Thank you.
I was wondering if we could talk a little bit about DTC.
It sounds like a lot of the marketing investments that you are making would have a meaningful impact on your DTC.
Is that kind of the channel that you are thinking about for the marketing investments? And then secondly you discussed investing in your mobile capabilities going into 2014.
Can you give us an understanding or just an overview of how your mobile capabilities have evolved over the last year and where you expect to get them? Thanks.
Maybe just taking the first part Matt.
The marketing investments we are making a lot of it will be delivered through digital and online but we expect the benefit to be across channel.
So we are not expecting the benefit to be limited to the DTC channel.
In terms of the changes we are making online and some of the investments we alluded to in the prepared comments we have an expanded assortment.
Search and navigation experience design redesigning the Hollister website personalization additional international expansion particularly focused on Asia given the -- accordingly you referenced a moment ago.
And your point on mobile we are seeing a huge proportion of the traffic coming through mobile.
So we are making enhancements to that experience which we think could be meaningful.
We are investing in a whole new channel.
We are finding store fully active now.
We have ordering store coming along shipping store pilots.
So there are a lot of things going on in that space.
We are prioritizing CapEx towards that.
We think strong growth in the U.S.
and particularly strong growth in international which is -- I think as we have discussed in the past particularly profitable channel given the overall economics of that channel.
Thank you.
Anna Andreeva Oppenheimer is next.
Thanks so much.
I was hoping to follow-up on international.
Your performance there improved a little bit from the holiday update.
Just may be talk about what are you guys seeing by region? I think you said Europe did get sequentially better.
What kind of a performance in international are you guys embedding in the high single digit comp decline for 2014 and just given the four walls have been coming down there do you guys think that mid-20s is a sustainable level as we go through the year.
And then just quickly a number of retailers obviously have talked about difficult trends quarter-to-date so far in 1Q.
You guys are guiding for comps down high singles for the year.
Is that what you're earning currently? Thanks.
Okay.
I guess in terms of the comp trend internationally Anna we are projecting a sequential improvement in the comps in 2014 but to some degree that's just reflecting what we are lacking.
Its not necessarily an underlying improvement in the business.
With regard to the four walls if you look at Hollister Europe specifically its still right around that 30% four wall rate we are still well above.
The mall productivity in Europe as we referenced.
Some of the profit improvement initiative benefits will accrue to the international business.
Part of what's weighing on the overall international four wall margin as we still have some very low profitability stores in Japan we have talked about in the past and Canada operates below the 30% level.
But if you look at Europe alone its still close to 30 particularly if you look at Hollister.
I think I have addressed several of your questions but there may be one I missed.
First quarter performance which I don't think Jonathan can address.
We don't typically comment on quarterly performance as you know Anna.
Okay terrific.
Thanks so much guys.
Thank you Anna.
Next is Lindsay Drucker Mann Goldman Sachs.
Hi good morning everyone.
I just wanted to follow-up on the international store margin.
Can you talk about the drivers of the ongoing margin decline on a four wall basis in the fourth quarter? I know [indiscernible] a little bit but can you give a little bit more detail about whether its on the gross margin side or if there is other -- if its just the poor comp and visibility to that actually stabilizing? Its predominantly the leveraging effect of the negative comp although most [indiscernible] were down a little bit we did take AURs down in the fourth quarter year-over-year in those international stores.
So that contributed too.
But the biggest driver is the leveraging on the negative comp.
And is that just proportionate of Hollister versus Abercrombie or is it both sort of moving in the same direction? Both broadly in the same direction.
Okay.
And then as far as the comp improvement initiatives can you talk about the areas where from an execution standpoint you're most mindful of ensuring that as we prosecute this margin on a cost savings in a short period you're ensuring that there is really no impact here to your top line comp trends consumer perception or otherwise? I think Lindsay the area obviously that we are both focused on in that regard is looking to what's happening in the stores whether it’s a direct consumer interface that's potentially affected by some of these changes.
So we have been making some of these changes already in the fourth quarter.
We don't believe they adversely affected sales during the quarter but we do need to watch that closely but we feel confident about the $175 million.
I'd also like to comment that we only proceeded with the store initiatives after pretty extensive tests and we saw that the top line wasn't really effective.
[indiscernible] as we go forward.
Dana Telsey with Telsey Advisory Group has a question.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Dana.
Hi.
You talked a lot about the changes that you are making with product testing in the fabric platforming processes with the improvement in lead times in chase product.
When does this all take hold and how do you see it impacting the gross margin? Thank you.
It is already taking hold because as I said we are in a place that we have considerable chase.
I think that all these things will impact volume and also gross margin.
I would suspect that we should start seeing impact as the year proceeds through shorter lead times and I think testing is a very important part of this equation.
So its certainly going to affect gross margin and volume and I can't give you a number.
Then I just had one [indiscernible] to your question but in terms of AUC have been down for the full year and we are anticipating it to be down more in the back half of the year skewed to the back half of the year.
So I think that's an important point to make in terms of thinking about the gross margin cadence for the year.
And how do you see pricing in 2014 given the current environment? As I said before its going to be quite hard to sustain AUR increases.
Thank you.
Thanks Dana Next question is Oliver Chen Citi.
Thanks a lot.
Thanks Jonathan for all the details.
When we model our free cash flow out this year how should we think about the net working capital items instead it will help cash or if it will be a cash use.
And also regarding the products Mike and the opportunity for brand differentiation what are the takeaways for where you see the most opportunity as you look to differentiate the banner whether it'd be pricing or style or targeted audience? Oliver on the first one we expect a benefit from net working capital for the year including or mostly driven by a reduction in inventory and that is in part driven by the expectations that are in the -- and if your inventory is going to get a lower average unit cost than it was into 2013 plus some other factors including generally trying to be more efficient in our use of inventory.
To answer the second part of your question we think the branded structure is going to help the process differentiation in terms of all of the factors you mentioned.
A customer a product the positioning of each brand and I believe its an issue of product and marketing.
We are working aggressively on both factors.
This is a key focus area for us now and I think we are making progress I think the branded concept will only expedite that process.
But we see real differentiation in these brands.
But I think its important to note that A&amp;F and Hollister do have distinct equities and they target different customers.
Our next question will come from Paul Alexander Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Hi.
Thank you.
I think last time we spoke to you guys you were wrapping up a consultant-led qualitative study on brand perception.
Are you ready to discuss the findings of that yet or is that still ongoing? It has been complete.
I don't think we will reveal what those results were.
I think that if you look at everything we are seeing today you can imagine what those results were in terms of how we are reacting for the business.
We are taking these learnings seriously and all the aspects of the business that I described today.
Next we will take a question from Marni Shapiro The Retail Tracker.
Hey Marni.
Hey guys.
Good morning everyone.
Mike just two quick questions.
If you could talk a little bit about in the past when you've had great fashion product you've not had price resistance and it sounds like you're talking about with AUR coming down and focusing on AUC that this has changed and that even when you have good products you are finding price resistance.
So if you can talk a little bit about that and then if you can just also touch base on the -- you talked about the differentiation between the products.
Are you willing to give any insights as to how you view Hollister and Abercrombie looking different in say six months from now? The first part of your question is I think we are in different environments in terms of price resistance.
Clearly its an old axiomatic statement that good fashion doesn't have a price attached to it but today it does.
We sell good fashion well at higher prices but its still a very competitive environment and we need to be very conscious of [indiscernible] to drive the business.
In terms of where the two businesses are going I don't think I am prepared to describe to you exactly how they are going to look.
But I think you will be able to see real differences as we proceed in terms of -- look at product look at advertising look at marketing it’s a pretty all encompassing task that we are [indiscernible] to differentiate these brands.
We have a question from Barbara Wyckoff CLSA.
Hi everybody.
Hi Barbara.
Hi a couple of questions.
Can you talk about what percentage of the styles in the inventory now were pre-tested? Then secondly can you talk about progress in China? How are the new stores doing versus the first wave of opening and if Hong Kong [indiscernible] Nanjing is I think the most recent one? And are you seeing a difference in sales male versus female versus the U.S.
and Europe? Also in international how is that sole flagship doing and can you talk a little bit about the Japan Hollister? And lastly can you clarify whether the Emirate store is operated by your or are you using a partner? Boy oh boy.
Okay.
Barbara we got a list.
Okay.
Emirates is a joint venture with our big budget partner in the United Arab Emirates.
So that's the answer to the first question Barbara.
The Japan stores as Mike said in the prepared comments are doing very well.
They are roughly doubling their initial plans so we are very happy with how that's performing.
China comes up 30% plus for the year so we are very pleased with that.
In absolute volumes in China not as high as they were in Hong Kong but I think that's not surprising.
The progress we are making there is very positive.
I think your first question was percentage of style of inventory that was pre-tested? Okay.
I will respond to that.
As of today I'd say its about 50% but each week that will increase.
We are setting a lot of units this week and next week and much of that has been tested.
So as we move through the season we are going to move to the 100% mark.
I think [indiscernible] just coming back I think probably the question was the first stores these are the older stores.
I think broadly the trend we are seeing in stores in China is consistent across the stores that are in the comp base and those that are not.
What have we missed? Did that cover Barbara? The store flagships? Store flagships it will be somewhat below.
The store flagship is somewhat below plan.
Okay.
Thanks.
Good luck.
Thank you.
Omar Saad ISI is next.
Hey thanks.
Good morning.
Jonathan congratulations on the elevated responsibility that you have in the organization.
Thanks Omar.
Wanted to ask about outlets of real estate tragedy; obviously you have been closing a lot of stores in the U.S.
You are going to close more in 2014 and if some of the planned openings have been outlets I think you are up to 20 or so now.
How do you see the performance in those locations versus the more traditional regional mall into our malls? Is it a strategy that you think you could be much bigger in that channel as you contain to exit on profitable or less profitable real estate location to the more traditional malls? Thanks.
Let me answer that.
We are currently testing stores outlet stores with made per outlet product.
We have been in that business before we have only used our outlets as clearings.
So we have a roadmap for growing the outlet business both in the U.S.
and internationally but we need to make sure the results are where we need them to be as we roll this out.
We have two test scores that have made for outlet merchandise today; a new store format one is in Seattle one is in the U.K.
We are looking at these results very carefully.
We are opening more test stores over the next couple of months.
We are looking at this as a real potential in terms of the business but we have to be very sure about the results before we can see.
Our final question today will come from John Morris BMO Capital Markets.
Thanks guys.
Good morning everybody.
Hey so I think in our prepared remarks you talked about guidance not including long range planning initiatives.
Just so we know what's not included in there what were you specifically referring to for that? Then also you talked about the changes you see alterations with the new distribution center.
Can you just tell specifically what those are and the benefits you expect to accrue from those changes? Yeah so taking the first part we had coming out of the presentation we gave in November we have about 150 specific initiatives many of which we expect to hope to start seeing benefit from as we go through 2014.
But we haven't baked any benefit from that into our outlook.
But nor have we baked in as we said earlier any potential [indiscernible] deterioration in the underlying trend.
So an example would be the marketing expense.
So we have baked in an incremental $30 million of planned marketing expense for the year but we haven't assumed any benefit from that in terms of the top line or in terms of margin as we go through the year.
In terms of the DTC we are reconfiguring as we said one of our two distribution centers here and [indiscernible] need a dedicated direct-to-consumer facility.
That's going to enable us to increase processing times that's going to support on the channel initiatives and other things that are an important of our e-com plans going forward.
And there is also reduced costs over time.
And that does conclude our question-and-answer session for today.
And that does conclude today's conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Abercrombie &amp; Fitch first quarter 2014 earnings results call.
[Operator Instructions].
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Brian Logan.
Mr.
Logan please go ahead.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our first quarter earnings call.
Earlier today we released our first quarter sales and earnings income statement balance sheet store opening and closing summary and an updated financial history.
Please feel free to reference these materials available on our website.
Also available on our website is an investor presentation which we will be referring to in our comments during this call.
Today's earnings call is being recorded and the replay may be accessed through the internet at abercrombie.com under the Investors section.
The call is scheduled for one hour.
Joining me today are Mike Jeffries and Jonathan Ramsden.
Before we begin I remind you that any forward-looking statements we may make today are subject to the Safe Harbor statement found in our SEC filings.
After our prepared comments this morning we will be available to take your questions for as long as time permits.
With that I will hand it over to Mike for some opening remarks.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
In what remains a difficult teen retail environment we are pleased that earnings for the quarter were in line with our expectations.
Overall sales for the quarter decreased 2% which included strong growth in our direct to consumer business and comparable sales continued to head in the right direction.
We saw significant sequential improvement in our female business which comped in line with the male business for the first time in many quarters and in our Abercrombie &amp; Fitch brand which comped down only slightly for the quarter.
We continue to be pleased by the results from our recent expansion efforts in Asia.
Our Hollister stores in China continue to comp positively and our new A&amp;F flagship store in Shanghai opened in April to huge crowds and strong sales which exceeded forecast.
The flagship opening generated 500 million social media impressions and added over 30 000 new Weibo followers and we believe will continue to support our growing brand awareness in China.
For 2014 we plan to open four additional stores in China including a mall-based A&amp;F store in Chengdu and are preparing for an accelerated rollout for both brands in 2015.
In addition our direct-to-consumer business in China has been growing at a very fast rate and will be further boosted when we introduce a local website and local fulfilment in the fall.
This is a further example of the significant investments we are making to build our international DTC business a critical component of our long term strategy.
In Japan our two Hollister stores are still producing volumes significantly ahead of initial forecasts.
For 2014 we plan to open two additional Hollister stores in Japan one at LaLaport Tokyo Bay and the other in Kobe.
And we see significant growth opportunity given our early success.
Our Dubai Hollister store our first in the Middle East has been the highest volume Hollister globally since its opening in the fourth quarter of last year.
We look forward to additional openings in the Middle East in 2014 including our second store in Dubai and another in Abu Dhabi.
Store comps in Europe continued to show modest improvement and total comps were close to flat in several countries including Germany our second largest European market.
The general economic outlook in Europe still remains uncertain.
However our overall productivity in Europe remains strong.
In Canada we moved back into positive comps for the quarter with particularly strong growth in DTC.
From a merchandise standpoint we performed well during the quarter in dresses outerwear and jeans all of which has positive comps.
As we look forward our focus remains on executing the various components of our long range plan.
First we continue to make good progress in evolving our assortment improving our test and reaction capabilities and increasing style differentiation.
As you know we are now testing close to 100% of our assortment.
Chase now represents a significant component of our fashion business and we have reduced lead times for Chase to between 45 and 75 days which includes the benefit of new fabric platforming processes.
We see opportunity as we expand fabric platforming to additional fabrics and categories.
With improved test and react capabilities we believe we will be more fashion-right which should lead to higher productivity and margins.
Second we are increasing brand engagement through enhanced marketing initiatives and campaigns.
Earlier this month we announced the opening of Hollister House a key part of our new Hollister marketing campaign.
Hollister House is a beach house in Southern California that will be open through early August and will support a major digital marketing campaign across multiple platforms including YouTube Instagram Hulu Twitter Facebook Spotify Pandora and our recently launched Hollister Snapchat.
The house represents the iconic laid back SoCal attitude of the brand delivered in a fresh new and relevant way.
The house will be used as a vehicle to create social media content including music performances from Billboard-charting acts guest celebrities and stylist videos.
It will also be supported by our new blog “This is SoCal.” For A&amp;F we expect to launch a new marketing campaign later in the year and look forward to sharing the details of that on a future call.
Beyond marketing campaigns we will increase brand engagement through investments in our stores and in our online experience.
As you know we have been running a Hollister store remodel test over the past few months which features the redesigned storefront we previewed in our investor event last November.
As Jonathan will describe further in a moment the test stores have performed strongly and as a result we now plan to expand the rollout of this new design in 75 to 100 stores including a small number of Canadian stores by year-end.
And with regard to online we plan to launch a redesigned Hollister website this fall.
We continue to explore third-party channel opportunities and now expect to begin selling A&amp;F merchandise through ASOS for Christmas.
Given ASOS’s strong and growing traffic this partnership will enable us to increase brand consideration and engagement with an attractive margin structure.
Third our profit improvement initiative is on track.
In fact savings in the first quarter were somewhat ahead of what we anticipated.
As we mentioned in our last call we believe the next big area of opportunity lies in lowering our merchandise average unit cost.
Our average unit cost is expected to be down in the back half of the year and we see additional opportunity as we move forward particularly for Hollister.
Fourth we are making good progress in ensuring we are properly organized to execute our strategic plan.
We’ve completed the vertical organization structure by brand for most of our cast in design merchandising and planning in anticipation of the hiring of the brand presidents.
We believe these actions will support a number of key objectives including increased brand differentiation and accountability.
We’re also excited to be adding strong retail experience to our board of directors through new additions.
Finally turning to omnichannel we have made solid progress on several core initiatives since last fall.
After successfully piloting order in store we now plan to roll this feature out to all U.S.
stores during the third quarter.
In addition we plan to pilot ship from store during the third quarter with a broader rollout planned for approximately half of the U.S.
fleet in the fourth quarter.
Beyond this we are working to develop other omnichannel capabilities including reserve in store and in-store pickup.
Our sector faces challenges as highlighted by the spate of recent negative reports.
We are fully cognizant of those challenges and know that we need to be focused disciplined and at the top of our game to navigate through this environment.
We are more than ready for that.
We remain highly focused on returning to growth and believe we are taking the right steps and are on course to accomplish that goal.
Longer term we are confident that the strategic choices we are making investing in key international growth markets investing in our international DTC business restructuring and repositioning our U.S.
store fleet restructuring our cost base and making key organizational changes will position us to drive significant improvement in our results and increase shareholder value.
Before handing over to Jonathan I would like to take a moment to say a word about someone who has been an incredible partner to me for over 20 years.
Tomorrow marks Leslie [Harrow’s] last day as a full-time associate at A&amp;F.
Everyone who has worked at A&amp;F knows the role that Leslie has played in our company and its culture.
She has exemplified everything we stand for and believe in as a company caring obsessively about our brands and each other being collaborative and team-oriented being positive and optimistic and not taking ourselves too seriously.
On behalf of everyone at A&amp;F I want to say a big thank you to Leslie for everything she has done for this company.
Jonathan? Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
I want to start this morning by saying a welcome to A&amp;F to Joanne Crevoiserat.
Joanne joined us earlier this month and we are thrilled to have her onboard.
Joanne will be joining our next earnings call in August.
I’m going to start with a short recap of the quarter and then talk about our outlook for the range of 2014.
For the quarter net sales were $822 million down 2% to last year including direct-to-consumer total comparable sales were down 4%.
Total U.S.
sales are down 6% while international sales were up 5%.
Sales for the quarter were slightly lower than expected.
Within the quarter comparable sales were weaker in February versus the combined March and April period.
The gross margin rate for the quarter was down 370 basis points reflecting a higher mix of full merchandise clearance selling versus last year and an increase in promotional activity including shipping promotions and the direct-to-consumer business.
Promotional activity was somewhat greater than we anticipated leading to modestly higher gross margin rate erosion than anticipated.
We expect gross margin rate erosion to continue into the second quarter primarily from AUR pressure with gross margin rate improvement in the back half of the year as we begin to benefit from lower AUCs and go up against more favorable AUR comparisons.
Excluding pretax charges of $16 million which are detailed on page four of our investor presentation adjusted non-GAAP operating expense for the quarter was $531 million down $37 million from last year representing 310 basis points of leverage.
These savings are net of incremental investments in marketing initiatives and DTC.
Savings were greater than anticipated due to continued tight expense management and the earlier realization of profit improvement initiative benefits.
We have made good progress in executing our profit improvement initiatives and continue to expect at least $175 million of annual savings.
In addition we continue to expect to increase 2014 marketing expenditures by approximately $30 million or greater compared to 2013 with a greater portion of the increase now coming in the second quarter related to the new Hollister campaign.
On a sequential basis we expect a lower year over year decline in operating expense for the second quarter due to the cadence of expense savings and offsetting marketing investments which we now expect to be significantly greater on a year over year basis in Q2.
Other operating income for the quarter was $4 million which included insurance recoveries of $3 million compared to $1 million in other operating income last year.
On an adjusted non-GAAP basis the operating loss for the quarter was $16 million versus $14 million a year ago.
The tax rate for the quarter excluding the effective charges was 27.5% lower than our full year projected rate due to the impact of discrete period items on a low pretax figure.
For the quarter the company reported an adjusted non-GAAP loss per basic and diluted share of $0.17 in line with expectations coming into the quarter.
Turning to the balance sheet we ended the quarter with $357 million in cash and cash equivalents and borrowings under the current loan of $131 million.
During the quarter we repurchased 3.8 million shares at an aggregate cost of $150 million through our announced accelerated share repurchase.
We anticipate additional share repurchases over the course of the year utilizing free cash flow generated from operations and existing or additional credit facilities.
We ended the quarter with total inventory at cost up 6% versus a year ago.
We expect inventory at cost on a year over year basis to be down at the end of the second quarter.
During the quarter we substantially completed the closure of our standalone Gilly Hicks stores and incurred charges of approximately $6 million primarily related to lease exit costs.
We now expect total capital expenditures for 2014 to be approximately $210 million to $220 million.
This now includes additional capital expenditure related to an expanded rollout of a new Hollister storefront that the company has been testing since January of this year.
We now anticipate that this new storefront will be rolled out to between 75 and 100 stores by the end of the year.
As Mike mentioned we are very pleased with the results of the test which on average has resulted in a double digit percentage increase in sales and a substantially greater increase in traffic versus the control group.
For the extended rollout we are modeling a more conservative ongoing sales lift but still expect the cash on cash ROI to exceed our 30% hurdle rate.
We will also be testing a lower-cost version of the remodeled storefront as we look to extend this rollout across the fleet.
As a result of the rollout we also expect to incur a $3.5 million charge related to the writeoff of existing store assets.
2014 capital expenditures continue to be prioritized toward DTC and IT investments to support growth initiatives and capex related to new international store openings is prioritized toward the key growth markets of Japan China and the Middle East.
During 2014 we expect to open 15 full priced international stores including a small number of A&amp;F mall-based stores.
We also now plan to open 8 to 10 international and U.S.
outlet stores during the year.
We continue to expect to close between 60 and 70 stores in the U.S.
during the fiscal year through natural lease expirations.
Beyond 2014 the actions we have taken in the past few years give us significant flexibility as we think about the optimal size of our U.S.
bricks and mortar footprint.
In total about 500 of our 840 U.S.
leases are up for renewal between now and the end of 2016.
DTC growth especially internationally is a key priority for us.
We are off to a good start in 2014 and expect to achieve another year of strong growth with the segment margin remaining in the mid-30s on a full year basis.
We plan to continue to invest in DTC including increasing our assortment of web exclusive styles advancing mobile capabilities and expanding international language and payment options.
As Mike mentioned we will also be introducing a local website and local fulfillment for our DTC business in China.
This is another significant step for us as we continue to build on our leading international ecommerce position.
Moving on to our earnings outlook for the rest of 2014 we are maintaining our guidance of full year diluted earnings per share in the range of $2.15 to $2.35.
This now includes the effect of the first quarter accelerated share repurchase which offset the assumption of a somewhat more difficult operating environment.
The guidance is based on the assumption that full year total comparable sales will be in the range of down 3% to down 4%.
The guidance assumes a gross margin rate for the full year that is down slightly compared to fiscal 2013.
We expect average unit retail pressure and lower shipping and handling revenues to offset average unit cost improvement and a benefit from the company’s profit improvement initiative.
We expect the gross margin rate for the second quarter to be lower than the full year rate with the third and fourth quarters getting a benefit of year over year AUC reduction.
The above guidance does not include charges related to the Gilly Hicks restructuring the company’s profit improvement initiative certain corporate governance matters or other potential impairment and store closure charges.
In addition the guidance assumes a weighted average share count of approximately 74.5 million shares which does not include the effect of additional share repurchases over the course of the year and a full year tax rate of approximately 35%.
The tax rate remains sensitive to the mix between international and domestic income.
With that I’m going to hand it over to Brian to provide some more details on our results for the quarter.
Thanks Jonathan.
As reported first quarter comp sales were down 4%.
By brand comp sales including direct-to-consumer were down 1% for Abercrombie &amp; Fitch down 6% for Abercrombie Kids and down 7% for Hollister.
Across the brand male and female performed comparably.
Changes in foreign currency exchange rates versus a year ago benefited sales by approximately $12 million.
The gross profit rate for the first quarter was 62.2% 270 basis points lower than last year’s first quarter gross profit rate reflecting the entire mix of fall merchandise clearance selling versus last year and an increase in promotional activity.
Stores and distribution expense for the first quarter was $418 million down from $449 million last year.
The store and distribution expense rate for the quarter was 50.8% of net sales down 270 basis points from last year driven primarily by savings in store payroll partially offset by higher direct-to-consumer expense and $800 000 of charges related to the profit improvement initiatives.
Marketing general and administrative expense for the first quarter was $124 million a 4% increase compared to $119 million last year.
MG&amp;A expense for the quarter included $2 million of charges related to the profit improvement initiatives and $7 million of charges related to certain corporate governance matters.
Excluding those charges MG&amp;A expense was $114 million down 4%.
A decrease in compensation expense was partially offset by an increase in marketing expense.
At the end of the quarter we operated 842 stores in the U.S.
and 157 stores in Canada Europe Asia and Australia.
This now concludes our prepared comments.
We will take your questions.
Thank you very much.
[Operator instructions.] We have Anna Andreeva of Oppenheimer.
I was hoping you could talk about the timing of the brand presidents hires.
Maybe talk about some of the qualifications that you guys are looking for and then secondly maybe some color on the early learnings from the testing that you guys have been implementing.
Obviously your women’s business saw some nice significant improvement during the quarter.
The brand president search is underway.
We’re making progress.
We’re looking at people who have strong merchandising backgrounds but also strong administration and operational backgrounds.
But the primary qualification is merchant.
We are making progress.
We’re not ready to talk about anything yet.
The early learnings from product testing I think you can see the learnings in the fact that our female business sequentially improved month by month.
The testing process is taking hold and we should start to see more impact of that as we navigate through the rest of the year.
Next we’ll hear from Matt McClintock of Barclays.
I was just wondering if Jonathan you could talk real fast about the commentary that you said on the guidance.
You said you were taking a view of a somewhat more difficult operating environment.
How has your view changed especially given the improved cadence of sales into March and April? I think it’s not a dramatic change.
We’ve slightly taken down our sales outlook for the year and slightly taken down our gross margin rate projection.
I think we were saying flat to slightly down back in February.
When I was saying slightly down we do expect it to be down on a full year basis.
So we’ve taken both those assumptions down a bit based on what we’ve seen through the first quarter where there was certainly some greater AUR pressure than we anticipated coming into the year.
So there are the changes.
They’re relatively minor in the scheme of things.
And as we said in the overall guidance they also have the impact of the additional share repurchase we did in Q1.
On the accounts payable is that related to some of the supply chain initiatives that you’ve outlined? It seems like you’ve had two consecutive quarters of pretty good accounts payable results.
Is that tied to the Chase the 45 to 75 days Chase initiative? We’re not going to go into detail there but we are certainly trying to manage our working capital efficiently and effectively and I think you’re seeing some of that benefit show up in [unintelligible].
We have Janet Kloppenburg of JJK Research.
Mike if you could discuss the execution of the store-wide sale events.
I know that you’re trying to bring people back to the brand.
I’m wondering if you could share with us your strategy here and if this is something we should expect going forward or if it may moderate.
And Jonathan I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the expense savings initiatives.
I think you said that we should now expect a lower level of expense savings in the second quarter.
I thought the second and third quarter would have the greatest impact.
And also some of the learnings from your payroll reduction in store i.e.
is there more opportunity for that? Let me start and say I would love to answer your question but I really can’t.
Okay can you talk about your promotional strategy and whether or not you think that there will be modifications to it going forward? Again I really don’t want to discuss that for competitive reasons.
So let me try to break the expense into three pieces that I think will help clarify that.
In terms of the profit improvement initiative we had originally although it would build from Q1 into Q2 and Q3 just as we rotated into all of the programs in the event we were ultimately able to activate both of those programs for Q1 so in terms of the gross savings from the profit improvement initiative it’s relatively consistent between Q1 and Q2.
The net year over year improvement in operating expenses is affected by two other factors.
One is the greater marketing expense investment we’re making in Q2.
So marketing expense was up in Q1 but it’s going to be up more significantly in Q2.
So that’s one of the factors.
And then the other factor is that in Q1 we were able to affect some other expense reduction levers that we don’t expect to be available to us in Q2 and going forward in part because we were already starting to impact them last year.
They’re above and beyond the scope of the profit improvement initiatives.
So it’s really the net effect of those three things resulting in - certainly we’re still going to see a significant benefit in Q2 and we’re realizing the fully expected profit improvement initiative benefit but it’s being offset by those two other factors in terms of other net through to the overall operating expense for the quarter.
We have Betty Chen of Mizuho Securities.
I was wondering if Mike you could talk a little bit about the women’s knit top business.
We’re starting to see definitely much more trend-right fashionable items in the stores and we’re wondering how you feel about that in the second quarter going into back to school.
And related to the AUC benefits is there any way you can quantify what’s the reduction that you saw in the first quarter will see in Q2 in the back half of the year? The women’s business has obviously improved.
The knit tops business has improved.
The encouraging thing about the women’s top business is that it is improving with a planned marked decrease in logo wear.
So that’s very encouraging to us.
We think that the improvement will continue we think that the assortments look better.
There was no AUC benefit reduction in Q1 nor will there be in Q2.
The AUC reduction will take place solely at the back half of the year.
The only thing we could add is that on a full year basis you’ll see we’ll be down so the reductions in the back half of the year will outweigh the increases in the front half of the year.
And is that in Hollister or is it in all the brands too? It’s not all brands but it certainly skews to Hollister.
We have Jennifer Black of Jennifer Black &amp; Associates.
I wondered if you could talk a little bit about your online exclusive.
I know you said that it’s doing well and it was growing but I wondered how much growth you expected to see.
Could you double it? What percent of sales would you see it being over the longer term? And then also I wondered if you had any comments on accessories which look really good.
On the online exclusive merchandise I think it’s hard to say where it’s going to end up.
We’re obviously looking at the incrementality of that as we add it.
And it’s been increasing over time.
So I don’t think we’re ready at this point to say where it goes to over the long haul but we’ve certainly seen very good results from it so far.
I just think it’s too early to say where that ends up.
Accessories we’re making a Herculean effort there.
I can’t tell you that we have any huge successes.
We’re doing volume but we’re not taking the volume to the bottom line.
We’ll continue to push.
I think that the new branded organization is going to help that business enormously because I think they’ll be much better thought out in relation to each of the brands.
We continue to think there’s a huge opportunity.
We’ll get there.
Next is Adrienne Tennant of Janney Capital Markets.
Mike is improving in the female business across all divisions? And then specifically can you talk about the improvement at Abercrombie adult the negative 1% there and kind of what you think is driving that? And why should we not think that comps get better across the year? So the negative 3% to 4% for the full year I’m assuming implies negative comps for the remainder of the year all three brands.
If you can talk to that that would be great.
The improvement in female was across all three brands.
The improvement was greatest in A&amp;F adult and greatest in A&amp;F female.
But there was improvement in all three brands.
Difference between A&amp;F and Hollister was driven by the female business.
Jonathan why should we not think about comps getting better? Yeah I think that’s what we’re currently projecting based on our model.
If you look at Q1 and say compare with slightly more favorable than Q2 perhaps given the lack of inventory we had in Q1 of 2013.
But I think as we look at the net effect of that and the overall trend we’re seeing it play out in that down 3% to 4% range for the year based on our usual trend model that we use for the purposes of the forecasts.
Our next question will come from Barbara Wyckoff with CLSA.
Can you talk about the difference in sales performance in the U.S.
kind of buckets of stores the tourist stores versus the sort of A top stores and the rest of the fleet? And then secondly related to that the 60 to 70 store closings could it be more? And they’re all in the U.S.
correct? Or will there be select closings internationally? I guess just starting with the last part of the question the closings could potentially be more.
This is what we currently see today.
And this time we’ve anticipated that rate remaining probably in that range for the next couple of years.
But typically we’re not making the decision until a little later in the year.
And obviously one of the factors we take into account is the performance of the stores and whether we see an improvement in the trend and whether that would lead us to conclude a store should stay open or potentially close if we’re seeing it moving in the other direction.
The closures this year all but one are in the U.S.
There’s one international store we are planning to close which we talked about in the past as being an outlier in terms of its performance.
Going back to the sales performance in the U.S.
I think overall there weren’t major differences between the trend relative to the preceding quarters.
The improvements we saw sequentially from Q4 into Q1 were broadly consistent across different buckets of stores.
And one more follow up.
Your thoughts on carrying inventory in the store on items like Keds? Let me respond to that.
As you know we have the partnership with Keds and SeaVees and that’s been very successful.
And we do have a long list of additional collaborations across footwear apparel and accessories which we’re excited to launch in the coming months.
We know our customer values these sorts of relationships and we believe they can improve our brand positioning while giving us some [unintelligible] sales and margin.
So we’re at the beginning of it but we like where this is going.
Next we have Simeon Siegel with Nomura Securities.
I wanted to ask you guys if you could talk about the right way to think about the capital structure and buybacks.
I believe you said you continue to anticipate share repurchases from here from free cash flow from existing maybe additional credit facilities so any thoughts around that? We still have 12.5 million shares authorized for repurchase.
That came down during the quarter because of the ASR we did in Q1.
And we said back in February that we anticipated utilizing a substantial component of that open authorization over the course of the year with free cash flow and potentially use of credit facilities either new or existing ones being deployed to accomplish that.
We typically execute our share repurchases on a quarter by quarter basis as we go through the year.
So I think at this point we certainly have a point of view as to where we’re going for the year but that’s something we will determine as we continue to go forward quarter by quarter.
But again I think if you go back to the 16 million or so shares we had outstanding at the beginning of the year we expect to work through certainly a substantial portion of that over the course of the year.
And quick follow up if you don’t mind.
On the merchandise you’re going to be selling through ASOS is that just Abercrombie &amp; Fitch concept or is that going to be companywide? It’s A&amp;F at this point.
We may expand it to Hollister but A&amp;F is confirmed at this point.
We’re moving forward on that and Hollister we’re continuing to discuss.
Randy Konik with Jefferies is next.
I guess a couple of things.
First in terms of thinking about optimizing the store fleet in the USA is there any kind of color you can give us between what’s currently the margin differential between the three businesses i.e.
is the Abercrombie Kids business lagging much greater than the Hollister division or vice versa where it’s driving what types of stores are closing between the businesses? And then I guess you gave us some color on Germany being almost flat I believe you said in the prepared remarks.
Can you give us some more color on the U.K.
part of the business? And then on marketing you’re upping the marketing spend.
Are you assuming a sales lift from that marketing spend or are you seeing any results of the increased marketing spend yet? And then finally is there some sort of free cash flow baseline number that we should be thinking about your company being able to generate on a go forward basis annually? In terms of the performance of the brands and how we think about that from a store closure standpoint historically the A&amp;F same-store margins have been somewhat north of the other brands.
That partly reflects the higher AUR and the efficiency that gives us further down the P&amp;L.
But it’s obviously a continuum for each of the brands.
We have a decision tree we go through as we think about each potential store closure which is driven primarily by a financial evaluation but also includes a brand positioning component.
And obviously it reflects an assumption about where we think those particular malls are going to trend over time.
And it works through the various questions we address before determining whether or not that store should stay open or closed at the end of its lease term.
But there is a continuum of margins across the fleet for each of the brands from a few that are still negative in each brand to others that are obviously at or above our overall target benchmark of a 30% formal margin.
The Kids conversation is interesting.
We’re running a test on carveouts for the Kids stores in existing stores which could help us from a profitability [unintelligible].
On the same period of your quarter on the U.K.
business it was still negative on a total comp basis but did show improvement from Q4.
So we are seeing improvement there as we are in other markets.
But the U.K.
is still in negative territory from an overall comp standpoint.
From a marketing spend standpoint we don’t believe yet that the initiatives we’ve undertaken have driven a significant impact on the top line.
It’s still very early days on that.
We have a much more significant investment rolling in in Q2 as I alluded to earlier.
And I think even beyond that the important point here is this isn’t a one-time event.
This is something we’re going to have to sustain and invest in over a long period of time to really drive that ongoing brand engagement.
But we certainly hope to start seeing some tangible benefits in the next couple of quarters particularly given what we’re putting behind this for Q2 and Q3.
Free cash flow baseline minimum obviously that’s primarily going to be a function of earnings and we certainly believe we’re going to be able to make progress from an earnings standpoint over the next few years.
From a working capital standpoint we expect to continue to be more efficient but I don’t think we can answer that with a precise dollar figure because it’s clearly going to be a function of the overall trajectory of the business over the next few years.
Can I just ask one little follow up? Do you think that the capex number let’s say it’s up slightly from the original guidance of like 210 and 220 whatever you said is that 200-ish type of number a number that we should be thinking about on an annual basis for the next few years? Is that kind of a number we can be thinking about from a capital expenditure standpoint?  I’m glad you asked that question on first part because just as a reminder we said previously that capex would be $200 million or a bit higher partly due to the fact that capex came in quite a bit lower than $200 million at the end of 2013 when there was some timing rollovers which is part of the reason it’s running a little higher this year.
But having said that as we look to the results of this Hollister storefront test we felt that the ROI from rolling that out to [unintelligible] of the fleet was certainly justified from an ROI standpoint.
And essentially our capital allocation philosophy will continue to be that we’re going to allocate capital to whatever investments whether it’s share repurchases or internal investments we think are going to generate the greatest risk-adjusted returns.
As of today I think we still believe that $200 million is a reasonable benchmark rate for where we would expect to be but we will continue to evaluate internal and external uses of that capital and focus on where we think we’re going to get the greatest risk-adjusted return over the long haul.
Paul Lejuez of Wells Fargo has a question.
Just looking at the direct to consumer segment it looks like sales increased almost $40 million but operating income in the segment stayed the same.
So just wondering if that was more of a gross margin issue in the direct-to-consumer channel or was it higher expenses? If you could break that out.
And then just a quick follow up there also just wondering about the gross margin performance in the U.S.
versus international how much was each down? On the first part of the question there were three drivers of the lower DTC margin rate in the quarter.
First the merchandise margin was lower year over year and that was because back in the first quarter of 2013 when we had kind of an abnormally high margin in DTC we had minimal clearance inventory in the DTC channel.
So margin was way up comps were not very good in the first quarter of 2013.
So that year over year is part of the effect.
Second we did invest more in shipping promotions this quarter year over year and we found that to be effective in driving the top line.
So that was part of the erosion.
And then third further down the P&amp;L there are marketing investments we’re making including expanding digital marketing efforts into Europe in particular and to some degree into Asia that [unintelligible] on the quarter but which to some degree will benefit us in the second quarter and beyond.
I think the important point is that as we look at it on a full year basis we do expect the margin to remain in the mid-30s.
So we certainly expect to see incremental operating income from the channel on a full year basis.
The second part of your question was about gross margin performance in the U.S.
versus international how much was each down.
I think we typically haven’t gone into that in any detail so [unintelligible].
Next we’ll hear from Oliver Chen with Citigroup.
I’m wondering if you could talk a little bit about the similarity of merchandise that’s regular price merchandise versus clearance and how you see that changing throughout the year and whether the fast track is improving that differentiation between the two.
We think that we’re making progress there and it’s a key part of our strategy that we differentiate the styles that there be more differentiation and it’s very much part of our strategy to increase AURs.
We think we’re making progress there and there will continue to be more differentiation.
And can you just touch upon the traffic versus conversion metrics this quarter? I think that’s something we historically haven’t gone into Nancy.
Next is John Morris of BMO.
I guess for Jonathan just talking a little bit more about the AUC improvements that you see coming and give us a little bit more color on the genesis of that where that’s coming from if it’s product reengineering or if you’re working with different vendors now etc.
And then secondly could you comment a little bit about the composite of the inventory levels that you have on hand? Real nice improvement there but just curious to know how clean you are and the complexion of carryover versus full price at this juncture.
I’m not sure there’s a whole lot we could add on the AUC improvement.
It’s going to be in the back half of the year.
It’s going to be down on a full year basis with the back half reduction offsetting an increase in the front half.
It’s skewed to Hollister but again it’s across all brands that we’re focusing on it but with a greater emphasis on Hollister.
I think it’s coming as Mike said on the call back in February from things that we don’t think you or the customer will see in terms of the product but is a way of reducing the individual unit product cost.
So it’s more in that category I think than the other [unintelligible].
And new vendors don’t really play a role in this.
We’re dealing with our large vendor partners and they’re playing a key role in helping us make this happen.
Yeah I just wanted to get a sense that it wasn’t coming out of quality in terms of the product.
You will never see that John.
And the inventory Jonathan? So your question was about fall/spring basic mix at the end of Q1? Fall is a bit up relative to where we were a year ago.
I think that’s a carryover effect that as you’ll recall we came into 2013 with exceedingly low fall inventory carryover levels.
So year over year in dollar terms it is up but we’re comfortable with where we are both in fall and in overall inventory levels.
And again we expect to be down in inventory at the end of Q2 and then through the balance of the year.
Our next question will come from Susan Anderson with FBR Capital Markets.
I was wondering if maybe you could give a little bit more color on the better-than-expected comps in the quarter.
Definitely I think the product looks much improved out there particularly on the women’s side but also do you think just kind of the higher promotions that you’re utilizing is kind of driving the team [to buy] since the price point’s much more attractive now? And if that’s the case do you expect this to kind of be the new norm? Just on the first part of the question the comps actually were slightly lower than we thought coming into the quarter.
We said that in the prepared remarks.
I’m not sure I understand the question.
I guess better versus where the Street was what we were expecting.
It was a little below what we expected and I think clearly it was a tough environment for the quarter and the challenges that we faced across the sector have been well documented.
So I think in that context we certainly felt comfortable where we came out for the quarter.
The DTC business was particularly strong as we’ve said and we continue to be believers that that’s going to be a major growth channel both in the short term and on longer terms.
And then one quick question too on the DTC.
It sounds like it really accelerated versus last year and you gave a little bit of color on what’s driving that.
But is there anything else you’re doing from an omnichannel perspective that’s driving increased traffic and sales to the site? I think there’s a lot of things we’re doing.
The benefit is primarily coming from conversion in DTC at this point and I think that is a reflection of a lot of the investments we’ve been making.
We are activating fulfilment for example in China.
We talked about that in the prepared remarks.
When we activated fulfilment within Europe two and a half or so years ago we certainly saw a very significant pickup in the business after that as lead times shortened and shipping and handling costs came down.
So we’re frankly seeing very strong growth rates in our Chinese and Asian business generally already but as we move to more localized fulfilment more localized websites we’d expect to see that continuing.
On the channel we’re moving forward as we said in the prepared remarks on multiple fronts there.
We’ll have order in store rolled out in the third quarter.
We’ll have ship from store rolled out to a significant number of stores in the fourth quarter.
We’re focusing on click and collect reserve in store those other initiatives.
So I’d say we’re sort of working across the gamut of omnichannel.
I think one of the questions we continually have to work through is where we prioritize our investment between driving the international business which has particularly high margins in ecom and where we continue to believe in early mover advantage versus investing in the core business where in the U.S.
So we have to continue to balance those two things but I think we feel very comfortable about the investments we have made in the ecom business and [unintelligible] we see in particular on the international side over the past few years.
And one last follow up if I could.
Not sure if you would be able to comment just on any color second quarter today how things are going.
I know some of your competitors out there have said that May is not necessarily off to a great start.
We generally don’t do that as you know.
So we’re not going to change that practice.
We have Kimberly Greenberger of Morgan Stanley.
Mike I’m interested to get your views and how your thinking has evolved since I saw you in November.
You talked a little bit about the changing landscape and the way that teens and young adults look at brands and fashion.
And you were talking about evolving the Abercrombie and Hollister brands to address the new ethos of that younger consumer.
For example becoming more inclusive rather than exclusive.
You know some of those brand characteristics and the way you were looking to evolve them.
Have you done any more research on that demographic? And what kind of work on the long term position of the brand do you expect to engage in here in 2014? I think I said it in November and we continue to research this customer.
I continue to believe that we are taking the brands to a place that is more relevant.
I think you can see that in our marketing efforts and I think you’ll see more of it.
I don’t want to get into more detail but I think that’s very much a part of our current marketing campaigns.
Do you have someone internally who’s actually spearheading this kind of research and these initiatives to help move the brands forward and make them more relevant to today’s teens? Yes we do.
And are you looking to hire anybody else in those roles as well? No I think we’re well served and it’s really being spearheaded by two people in the company.
And I feel that we’re moving in the right direction.
Next we have Dana Telsey with Telsey Advisory Group.
You mentioned that you’re going to be wholesaling some of the merchandise through ASOS.
Do you see opportunities for third-party selling to other types of companies too? And how does the terms of that work? And is there any exclusive product to that versus your stores? And lastly as you think about the Hollister business where do you see the greatest area for improvement there? I’ll start on ASOS.
I think it’s too early to say what will happen beyond that.
As you know we like to test pretty much everything we do.
So we look at this ASOS venture as being in part a test.
And then we’ll go from there in terms of where that could take us with regard to other potential outlets.
Whether Hollister is where we see the most improve is that a product question? Yes product question.
Exactly.
I think that’s an interesting question.
I think we’ve seen improvement in the female business.
I would imagine that there’s the most room for improvement in Hollister female in total.
And Mike as you see back to school how do you see back to school different this year from last year in how you’re planning? Well I think our assortments look a lot better.
We’re looking for it to be a tough season because of the environment but I think we’re doing the right things in terms of planning the season.
I don’t want to get more specific in terms of details.
Our final question will come from Omar Saad of ISI Group.
I wanted to ask a question about the new Hollister storefronts.
What you’re seeing there in the test phase that’s really giving you the confidence to expand that to I think you said 75 or 100 this year.
How it’s different and what’s working with it and how the consumer is relating to it and how it fits into the Hollister more focused brand positioning for the Hollister brand.
We established these test stores back in January so the test has been running for over three months.
And the traffic and sales improvements have been pretty stable for a while now which is what gives us the confidence that this is a sustainable increase.
And again what we’ve modeled into the assumption to support the capital investment we’re making in rolling this out is well below the rate of increase that we’ve been seeing in the test so far so it certainly allows for that rate to come down to some degree over time.
I think in terms of why it’s effective I think if you see the stores it’s somewhat kind of evident just from looking at them.
It’s very fresh and new you can see into the store.
You can see the merchandise and as we said in the prepared comments earlier the traffic uptick we’ve seen has been well above the double digit increase in sales we’ve seen.
So we’re certainly pulling more customers into the store which is clearly one of our core objectives over the next few years to drive greater traffic.
In terms of how it fits into brand positioning I think looking at Hollister today we are paying more and more attention to the reference to Southern California beach culture.
The front clearly reinforces that.
That does conclude our question and answer session.
And that does conclude today’s conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
Please standby we are about to begin.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Abercrombie &amp; Fitch Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Results Conference Call.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
(Operator Instructions).
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Brian Logan.
Mr.
Logan please go ahead sir.
Good morning and welcome to our second quarter earnings call.
Earlier this morning we released our second quarter sales and earnings income statement balance sheet store opening and closing summary and an updated financial history.
Please feel free to reference these materials which are available on our website.
Also available on our website is an investor presentation which we will be referring to in our comments during this call.
Today's earnings call is being recorded and the replay may be accessed through the internet at abercrombie.com under the Investors section.
The call is scheduled for one hour.
Joining me today are Mike Jeffries Chief Executive Officer; Jonathan Ramsden Chief Operating Officer; and Joanne Crevoiserat Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin I remind you that any forward-looking statements we may make today are subject to the Safe Harbor statement found in our SEC filings.
After our prepared comments this morning we will be available to take your questions for as long as time permits.
With that I hand the call over to Mike for some opening remarks.
Thank you Brian and good morning everyone.
I will comment on the numbers in a moment.
But I want to start by saying the most significant development over the past quarter has been the great progress we believe we have made in evolving the fashion component of our assortment.
Many of you have seen and commented on this with regard to our back-to-school floorset and we could not be more excited about it within the company.
Sales for the second quarter were somewhere below our plan but we have seen modest improvement since we set back-to-school in mid-July.
Importantly we have been able to achieve this improvement despite adverse likes in our logo business as we work to strategically reduce that element of our assortment.
We are confident that the evolution of our assortment will drive further improvements in sales as we go forward.
While we continue to operate in a challenging environment we are please that we were able to exceed both our earnings expectations coming into the quarter and prior year’s earnings as we continued to manage expenses tightly and exceeded expectations on our profit improvement initiative.
We are also pleased that for the second quarter in a row our A&amp;F brand comp close to flat and we continue to see sequential comp sales improvements in our U.S.
stores overall.
From a merchandize standpoint we performed well during the quarter in Jeans dresses and skirts.
Chase represented approximately 20% of the female assortment in the quarter and we expect to roughly double that figure for spring 2015.
And while Chase currently represents a much smaller percentage of the male assortment we will be looking to significantly expand its use there as well.
Meanwhile we continue to make good progress on AUC with like to like AUCs expected to be down for the balance of the year and through 2015.
To compliment our evolving assortment we continue to focus on increasing brand engagement through enhanced marketing initiatives and campaigns and are making great progress that many of you have also noticed.
For back-to-school our marketing initiatives have been focused on developing digital editorial content around our newest product and key trends.
Being on track with our core merchandizing and marketing initiatives is critical to our efforts to stabilize and improve productivity levels in both our U.S.
and international stores and while some of these initiatives will take time to fully pay off we remain confident we are on the right track.
Turning to our international performance we continue to be pleased by our expansion efforts in Asia.
During the quarter we opened our 8th Hollister store in China and on Saturday we will open our first mall based A&amp;F store in Chengdu.
In Japan we opened our 3rd Hollister store during the quarter at LaLaport Tokyo Bay and we remained very pleased with the volumes and profitability of our Hollister stores in both China and Japan.
We look forward to accelerating our store openings in both markets in 2015.
We also continue to be excited about the Middle East where we plan additional openings in Dubai and Abu Dhabi this year.
In Europe comps remain challenged.
The general economic situation in Europe remains difficult and at any time weakens during the quarter.
But we believe that our company-wide merchandizing initiatives as well as pricing marketing and other initiatives within key markets in Europe and they help us stabilize productivity.
In Canada we have now comped positively for the fourth time in the last five quarters.
Among other factors we believe that the adjustments we made to pricing in 2012 have contributed to the sustained improvement we have seen since then.
As you know aggressively growing our DTC business is a key component of our long-term strategy.
We’ve launched a redesigned Hollister website for back-to-school which included increased mobile optimization.
In addition we are focused on expanding our international infrastructure to support future growth there on which Jonathan will go into more detail in a moment.
Turning to our organizational structure we continue to make good progress in our evolution to a branded organizational model and look forward to welcoming Christos Angelides to the company in October.
Our search for the Hollister brand President is still ongoing but we remain confident we will find the right person for that brand as well.
I will conclude these opening comments by stating clearly that we remained highly focused on returning to growth and we are absolutely taking the right steps to accomplish that especially in the evolution of our assortments.
Now over to Jonathan.
Thanks Michael and good morning everyone.
We are very pleased to have Joanne Crevoiserat joining us for our first earnings call this morning.
Joanne has been spending much of her first few months with the company in the merchandize planning and inventory management areas and is now transitioning to take over day to day CFO responsibilities.
Joanne is going to walk through our financial results for the quarter and then I will provide an update on the low range planned initiatives and our outlook for the remainder of the year.
I’m going to hand it over to Joanne.
Thanks Jonathan and good morning everyone.
It's great to be here with you on my first earnings call as the company's CFO and I look forward to meeting many of you over the coming months.
As you have seen in this morning's press release net sales for the quarter were $891 million down 6% to last year.
Including direct-to-consumer total comparable sales were down 7%.
U.S.
comparable sales were down 5% while total international comparable sales were down 9%.
By brand comp sales including direct-to-consumer were down 1% for Abercrombie &amp; Fitch down 6% for Abercrombie Kids and down 10% for Hollister.
Comps by gender were approximately in line.
Within the quarter comparable sales were weakest in June.
Changes in foreign currency exchange rates versus a year ago benefited sales by approximately $13 million.
The gross profit rate for the quarter was 62.1% 180 basis points lower than last year reflecting an increase in promotional activity including shipping promotions in the direct-to-consumer business.
However promotional activity was somewhat lower than we anticipated coming into the quarter leading to modestly higher gross profit rates than planned.
Stores and distribution expense for the quarter was $426 million or 47.9% of sales down from $472 million or 49.9% of sales last year.
The decreased expense was driven primarily by savings in store payroll which was offset partially by higher direct-to-consumer expense.
Marketing general and administrative expenses for the quarter was $111 million a 6% decrease compared to $118 million last year.
The decline in MG&amp;A expense was primarily due to a decrease in compensation expense partially offset by an increase in marketing expense.
Excluding pretax charges of $2 million which are detailed on page 4 of our investor presentation adjusted non-GAAP operating expense for the quarter was $535 million down $61 million from last year representing 190 basis points of leverage.
Savings were greater than anticipated coming into the quarter due to continued tight expense management and realization of incremental benefits from profit improvement initiatives on which Jonathan will provide more detail in a moment.
Other operating income was $4 million for the quarter flat to last year and included insurance recoveries of $3 million.
On an adjusted non-GAAP basis operating income for the quarter was $22 million approximately flat to last year.
The effective tax rate for the quarter excluding the effect of charges was 29.2% reflecting the application of the estimated full year tax rate to the year-to-date results.
For the quarter the company reported adjusted non-GAAP net income per diluted share of $0.19 which was ahead of our expectations coming into the quarter.
Turning to the balance sheet we ended the quarter with $311 million in cash and cash equivalent and borrowings of $188 million.
During the quarter we repurchased approximately 1.5 million shares at an aggregate cost of $60 million.
This brings our total year-to-date repurchases to approximately 5.3 million shares.
Subsequent to quarter-end we completed the refinancing of our credit facilities.
The new credit facilities consist of $400 million asset based revolving credit facility and a $300 million Term Loan B Facility.
A portion of the proceeds from the Term Loan B Facility were used to repay outstanding borrowings of $188 million and pay fees and expenses associated with the transaction.
The balance of the proceeds will be used for working capital and general corporate purposes including potential share repurchases.
As of the end of the quarter we had approximately 11 million shares remaining available for repurchase under our previously announced stock repurchase authorizations.
We ended the quarter with total inventory at cost down 13% versus last year.
We expect inventory at cost on year-over-year basis to continue to be down double-digits at the end of the third quarter.
At the end of the quarter we operated 836 stores in the U.S.
and 161 stores in Canada Europe Asia Australia and the Middle East.
With that I will hand it back over to Jonathan.
Thanks Joanne.
As mentioned I am going to give an update on some of our long range planned strategic initiatives and will then provide an update on our outlook for the remainder of the year.
As a reminder our object through our long range plan is to achieve a significant increase in return on invested capital through a combination of disciplined and focused capital allocation and operating margin improvement.
As Mike mentioned aggressively growing our DTC business is a key component with this strategy.
We continue to expect another year of strong growth in 2014 particularly in our international business with the segment margin remaining in the mid 30s on a full year basis.
We are on track for the conversion of one of our distribution centers here in New Albany to be a dedicated direct-to-consumer facility which will support processing speed throughput and service.
We are also on track to launch localized sites in country fulfillment in China next month as well as regional fulfillment from Hong Kong for other Asian countries giving us local or regional fulfillment coverage of all of our major markets in North America Europe and Asia.
In addition we expect to open a Hollister store on Temo (ph) in China later this quarter launch a localized website in Japan later this year and launch in country e-commerce fulfillment in Japan next year.
With regards Omni-channel old range store is on track to be completed for old US stores during the third quarter in addition we are proceeding with our ship and store pilots with a rollout plan for approximately half of the U.S.
fleet early in the fourth quarter.
We expect our reserving store and in store pickup activated during 2015.
Importantly the combination of our technology and international fulfillment investments which is in a strong position to rollout omni-channel capabilities as they increase in relevance in our international markets.
Near term we see the UK being our highest priority market.
Turning to our corporate improvement initiative while some of the lower than expected expenses to date have come from continued tight expense management we are also exceeding our goals for savings from the profit improvement initiative.
As a result we now expect gross savings from initiative exceed $200 million versus the prior projection of at least $175 million of which $30 million was recognized in 2013.
In addition we expect to realize some additional savings beyond 2014 that are not included in this statement.
As we have previously stated these savings will be partially offset by approximately $30 million increase in marketing expenditures in 2014.
We continue to expect total capital expenditures for 2014 to be approximately $210 million to $220 million with the priority remaining on DTC and IT investments to support growth initiatives.
During 2014 we now anticipate opening a total of 14 full priced international stores including 8 Hollister stores and 5 A&amp;F stores.
We also plan to open 8 to 10 international and U.S.
outlet stores during the year.
As we think about capital allocation for 2015 and beyond we expect to increase our allocation to new stores particularly in Asia so we will continue to invest in support of our growing ecommerce footprint.
In addition we remained pleased with the result of the Hollister store remodel and we are working on a store remodel for A&amp;F which we expect to be in testing later in the third quarter.
We expect to allocate capital to accelerate the rollout of these new store fronts in 2015.
In both terms we continue to expect that CAPEX will remain at approximately $200 million annually.
U.S.
store closures remain a key part of our strategy to position our brand appropriately in U.S.
achieving optimal balance between our bricks and mortar and online presence and improved average store productivity.
We now expect to close approximately 60 stores in U.S.
during 2014 and naturally 6 for Asians (ph).
We expect to close a similar number of stores into the next couple of years and expect to attain significant flexibility thereafter.
Moving on to our earnings outlook for the rest of 2014 we continue to expect full year diluted earnings per share in the range $2.15 to $2.35.
The guidance is based on the assumption that full year total comparable sales will be down by mid single-digit percent.
The guidance continues to assume gross margin rate from full year that is down slightly compared to fiscal 2013.
We continue to expect average unit retail pressure and lower shipping handling revenues to offset average unit cost improvement and a benefit from the company’s profit improving initiative.
We expect gross margin rate improvement in the back half of the year as we begin to penetrate from lower AUCs and go up against more favorable AUR comparisons.
On a sequential basis we expect a lower year-over-year decline in operating expense in the back half of the year as we begin the anniversary savings realized last year.
The guidance includes an increase in interest expense associated with the refinancing of our credit facilities and includes the full year effective tax rate of the mid 30s which remains sensitive to the mix between international and domestic income.
The guidance also assumes a weighted average share count of approximately 73.6 million shares which does not include the impact of any additional share repurchases over the remainder of the year.
The guidance does not include charges related to the Gilly Hicks restructuring the company's profit improvement initiatives certain corporate governance matters and other potential impairment and store closing charges.
This concludes our prepared comments and we will now be happy to take your questions.
Thank you.
Good morning everybody how are you? Hi Randy.
Hi guys I guess a question for Mike can you give us some -- I guess stand and put on some color around the stuff you see I guess the improvement you are seeing in the non-logo business give us a little perspective on when the like for like I guess ease in that logo business and any color what -- how far down you want to take the logo business? And then I guess that's domestically then internationally just give us a little bit more I guess color if you could on different country-by-country performance within the quarter? Thanks.
We are really… Hello.
Hey it is Randy.
Did the call cut out? Do they hear me? Randy mate did you hear Mike's answer to that question.
We are not sure when the call got dropped.
No I think it was just -- I think everybody got dropped right when he first started speaking.
Okay here we go again.
Take two.
Yeah we are thrilled with the rate at which we are selling fashion.
I think everyone has seen that in our assortments and it is working.
We are up against big logo likes we are looking to decrease that aggressively.
For the fall season we are saying that we are going to be having the amount of business we did last year.
In the spring season we are looking to take the North American logo business to practically nothing but protect logo in international stores.
More color around the country-by-country performance I think this is a really interesting question in total and the first comment is that Europe remains really challenged and this contributes to a big percentage of Hollister's total comp lag to A&amp;F because of the size of the Hollister business in Europe relative to A&amp;F.
This is a really important statement guys.
And responding to country-by-country performance the worst country is Italy and the best country is Poland which doesn’t do us much good.
Is there any color on the UK? UK remains tough slight improvement in UK.
Got it thanks guys appreciate it.
Hi good morning.
This is Teeca Tamondon (ph) for Brian.
I was wondering if you could speak to improvement that you are seeing thus far during the back-to-school season is it across all brands as well as any color on the international and U.S.
businesses? And then also just you know you are in the early stages of implementing the lower AUR strategy at Hollister just if you could share any early learning from that that would be great? Thank you.
We are seeing improvement in fashion selling in fall brands.
The North American business is clearly better than international business on a likes basis because of the difficulties in Europe which I just mentioned.
The logo business is larger in Hollister and that becomes a little more difficult to overcome than it has in A&amp;F although we are overcoming that in both brands.
I think that the second point of -- sorry go ahead.
No just in terms of the lower AUR strategy? I think we are still working into elements of that.
What we have actually said is that we anticipate overall AURs to be up against slightly more favorable compared in the back half of the year but in general we are taking AURs down in Hollister selectively and continue to test into that.
And it is primarily an international strategy.
Great thank you.
Great thank you.
Mike I wanted to just ask you about the Hollister business.
It is down like negative 10 comp it has been weighed on particularly by the international comps do you happen to have the Hollister brands U.S.
numbers if you might be willing to share with us? The Hollister hold on I don’t understand you want the Hollister…  The Hollister U.S.
comp.
I think you just ended the global comp including U.S.
comp? Yes you are right.
I think what I can tell you simply is the gap in North America was closer than the overall gap between the brands because the gap to Mike's point earlier was wider in Europe.
So the North America Hollister and A&amp;F comps were closer together than their total comp.
Exactly and going back to what I said the big percentage and that's the lion percentage of the difference is due to Europe.
I would also say if we just look at the total Hollister lag behind A&amp;F the lions share is due to the European -- size of the European Hollister business.
Second the logo headwind skews towards Hollister and third I think there is still a little bit of a difference and I think that while Hollister has done a good job in evolving its assortment it is still slightly behind A&amp;F.
But that's a small difference.
Gentlemen thank you.
Hey thanks guys.
Hey just on your increase DTC revenues it doesn’t seem to be driving incremental operating profit so just wondering if that’s more of a result of having to be a bit more promotional online or is it a function of shipping revenue pressure and if its shipping can you talk about how big that piece is of the DTC revenue line? Thanks.
Yes.
Good morning Paul.
A couple of pieces on that first of all we do expect on a full year basis that we will see incremental operating profit from DTC so the effect you’re seeing in the first half of the year where operating profit dollars are kind of flat on sales that we do see on a full year basis that converting into being incremental operating profit dollars with the segment margin remaining in the mid 30s.
To your point a big part of the pressure is around the shipping and handling revenue and expense probably as we’ve begun to offer shipping promotions in Asia and internationally.
Generally when we do those the shipping expense is greater particularly for Asia.
One of the bits of good news on that is as we enable fulfillment within Asia our shipping expense when we run those free shipping promotions of the threshold will be much lower than it is today.
So the positive factor is just the revenue –- shipping handling revenue coming down as we have continued to use shipping handling promotions and been competitive on that.
But also because of the SKU of our business to international and the rapid growth in Asia when we run those promotions with greater shipping expense which as I just said will alleviate as we enable the regional fulfillment.
Any color on the size of that line that shipping revenue line? I don’t think we have broken out these figures specifically but it is the biggest driver of the lack of flow through to the bottom line in terms of the sales improvement that you are seeing in the segment.
Okay thanks guys.
Good luck.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and congrats -- Good morning Janet.
Good morning.
Congrats on the progress being made.
Just a couple of quick questions Mike if your could talk a little bit about the impact that the logo decline might be having on comp so we can understand what kind of traction you are getting in the fashion business that might help and also of some visibility on how long this impact may impact the costs perhaps hiding the improvement that you’re seeing in the fashion business? And I also was wondering if you could talk about your perspective on pricing in Europe given the success that you’ve had in Canada with low end pricing? And Jonathan if price of that will come down if you have offsets to that to maintain a healthy margin in Europe? Thank you.
The first part of the question Janet I think I can say this is that we are making up the logo decline in the business in terms of comps which says that we are doing better in the rest of the business which we are and that’s fashion related.
There is wonderful traction in fashion partially due to our Chase strategy.
Chase is working wonderfully well for us.
How long the impact of logo will last clearly through this year into first quarter of next year but as I just said we would say North America we’d want to be out of the logo business essentially by next spring.
It will remain a factor in the rest of the world.
I would say that by this time next year we will really be over the major dollars.
I think the question on our perspective on pricing in Europe is really a good one given the success in Canada.
We are testing pricing in Europe a pretty extensive testing as we talk now.
We think there is opportunity there.
And we think we have the ability to work on pricing given where we are in AUC.
But that’s a really good question Janet.
Comment on the fashion top results Michael.
Beg your pardon.
Can you comment on the performance of the fashion tops for the back to school I thought they looked terrific but you didn’t highlight them when you called out the categories of strength? Fashion tops are performing very well.
The top category in total is negative because of the logo impact but we are delighted with fashion tops.
Thank you good morning everyone.
I’d also add my congratulations on the progress.
If I can ask one clarification question Jonathan I think you mentioned that you are raising the cost takeout guidance of $200 million versus $175 million previously could you just talk about what area of the expense structure you are finding that incremental saving? And then Mike I was wondering if you could just talk about some of the early feedback on the incremental marketing spend some of the initiatives particularly the more social media based initiatives around the Hollister brand if you could talk a little bit about some of the success there that would be great? Thank you.
Stephanie just on the first part the primary driver of the increased savings is coming out of the stores store pay roll and other variable expenses within the stores that are certainly the biggest component of it.
In terms of marketing Steff it's still early days but we are seeing benefits particularly in terms of improving brand sentiments and brand engagement.
I think as everyone knows these efforts take time to realize the full benefits in traffic and sales but we are pretty delighted with where we are right now.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Dana.
Hi can you give any comments on denim how denim is doing what’s happening with price points of denim? And then on the performance on men’s and women’s anything you are seeing that’s any significant improvement from last quarter certainly seems like fashion is coming on? And just lastly given the beat you had this quarter and the cost savings running ahead is there something offsetting it that prevented you from raising full year guidance is it the margin picture and the pricing environment? Thank you.
We are happy with how denim has performed.
As we said comp sales were up but gross profit was up too.
We are able to drive the business through expanded assortment I think compelling price points and engaging store and DTC presentations that were supported by lifestyle marketing.
Your second question we are seeing performance on men’s women’s an improvement I am trying to think of what the statistics would say.
We are seeing North American improvement in both.
Yeah and I can jump in here men’s and women’s comps were relatively in line.
As Mike mentioned earlier we are seeing a lot of traction in our Chase which represents a 20% of our women’s assortment.
It is lower in men’s overall but we expect that to be increasing as well.
So men’s and women’s are in line in terms of performance and we expect if those Chase components continues to improve in both.
In terms of offsetting improvement in margin as it relates to guidance we do expect the back half guidance or the back half margin to be improvement driven by the AUC in roads we are making as well as profit improvement initiative efforts that will have some impact on margin in the back half and we do also see AUR pressure abating somewhat as we move into the back half as we see inventory in the segment normalizing.
Hi yes good morning.
You know Jonathan you actually talked a lot about some exciting omni-channel initiatives that you are rolling out back half of this year going into next year and I was wondering if you think about some of these initiatives shipped from store urban store etc.
it seems like the focus is United States how do you think about using those initiatives in international markets? Thank you.
Matt I think that’s a great question.
I think the state of omni-channel varies as you go around the world but it is generally not as far along as it is here in the U.S.
So UK is probably relatively far along within Europe.
In Asia omni-channels still you know relatively undeveloped.
But I think the key point is we -- the combination of us building the technology to rollout omni-channel in the U.S.
that same technology would be applicable internationally and then by virtue of moving to regional fulfillment now in Asia in addition to Europe the combination of those two things puts us in a very strong position to roll out omni-channel as it becomes relevant in key markets going forward.
So we foresee the UK as a priority.
We are looking at the rest of Europe we will continue to monitor Asia.
But I think the important point is that we will be ready to roll out omni-channel as it becomes significant in each of those markets.
Yes hello.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about how you are thinking about the European business developing over the next six months what are you doing to try and stabilize that business and how much control do you really have I mean what the end point is for productivity for the flagship location there? Yeah I think as we talked about a little bit in the prepared comments Christian there are market-by -- first the broader initiatives we are undertaking with regard to the assortment in particular we believe will benefit the European business as well as the international business.
But also within specific markets in Europe there are local pricing marketing other initiatives and then going back to prior question omni-channel could become part of the equation going forward in certain markets.
So there are combinations of the global initiatives we are undertaking particularly around the assortment and then market specific initiatives which we will be increasing over the next 6 to 12 months.
That's very helpful thank you and best of luck.
Thanks Christian.
Hi it is Janine Stichter on for John Morris.
I was just wondering just given what you are saying about the European business if you could comment a little bit on some of the tourist locations within the U.S.
and whether or not they are in overall drive to the total company comp thank you? Yeah we generally haven’t broken that out.
I think we can take that and see if there is some color we can give around that.
So why don’t we go onto the next question and we will see if we can dig out something on that.
Great thanks so much and let me add my congratulations to a continued improvement in the business.
A follow-up on the gross margin you guided down slightly for the year should we expect gross margin to be up in the third quarter and fourth quarter or that improvement to be more of fourth quarter weighted? And just a follow-up on the buy-back it looks like you guys brought back a little bit less than in the first quarter maybe talk about the appetite from the Board towards completing the remainder of the buy back in 2014? Thanks so much.
Yes we do expect gross margin to be down in the -- to be improved in the back half.
Again the AUC efforts those two become bigger in the fourth quarter than the third but it is relative.
We do see improvement in both as well as our property improvement initiatives that have margin implications kicking into the back half.
So slightly skew to fourth but I think the bigger issue in that equation is really the relief we expect on the AUR pressures we have been seeing as the inventories in the segment normalized through the fall season.
In terms of buy backs we have said that we -- and have authorization to continue to buy back shares of stock we make those decisions our practices to make those decisions on a quarter-by-quarter basis really is contingent on the stock price and managing to our liquidity target of $350 million.
I will just come back on Anna's last question so we typically don’t give a lot of color on the U.S.
stores but what we can say is that they performed somewhat below the U.S.
chain stores but better than the international stores for the quarter.
We know it is relatively consistent with the first quarter.
Thanks so much guys.
Good morning and let me add my congratulations and Mike you probably can guess what I am going to ask.
You know with your streamline run with less logo it seems like accessories you could really do a lot of -- you know I have been working on this? Of course and Jennifer I have to congratulate you because you have been on the push for less logo for a while.
So you are a forecaster there.
Thank you.
We are engaged in developing the accessory business.
I think going to a branded organization is really helping us as we develop these accessories because being more brand focused by category I am feeling that we are going to make progress.
So I hope to report something to you in the future about accessories.
Do you think we will see something in the next quarter are we looking six months…? I really think it is going to be spring that you are going to start to see more exciting brand right accessories.
Okay I am looking forward to it.
Thank you very much and everything does look much improved thank you.
Thanks Jennifer.
Hi thanks and welcome to Joanne nice job to all in executing on these strategic initiatives.
I was hoping you guys could offer some insight into these online exclusives the collaboration the licensed product and in relation to that can you give us some sense that you are seeing any change in the profile of the shopper either at Hollister or Abercrombie? And my final one is what's the style differentiation now between the brands and how much longer do you have before you get to where you want to be on that target of style differentiation? Thank you.
Okay first question Tom we currently have partnerships in footwear accessories and apparel and they have all been successful.
We have a long list of additional collaborations in the work which we are going to be introducing in the coming months.
We know that the customer does value these relationships and we believe they can improve our brand positioning while driving incremental sales and margin.
We are early days here but we are happy with where we are going.
Style differentiation -- we have changed the profile of customer of both brands.
I think that we see that we are ageing the A&amp;F customer which is exactly what we are trying to do.
I think if you look at the Abercrombie and Hollister websites you look at them today I think you can see a real difference in terms of the customer that we are targeting.
More sophisticated little older in A&amp;F clearly young in Hollister but the difference I think is pretty apparel when you turn on the DTC and our websites.
I think the differentiation is an ongoing thing.
I believe we are going to get there pretty quickly.
I can't say that it is February 2 2016 but we are on a track that we are comfortable with.
Thanks best of luck Mike.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone and congratulations on a great quarter.
I was wondering Mike if you can talk a little bit more about plan to expand the Chase program sounds like that's been a key factor -- and in terms of doubling that for next year is that mainly coming from women's or men's and which category any additional color would be really helpful? Thank you.
The Chase strategy is really working for us and we are embedding it in our business practice.
And simply stated it is an integral part of our business and we are doing all the things we need to do to make sure that we can support Chase moving forward and grow it.
In the female business we talked about doubling the amount of Chase we will be leveraging specific strategies like severed platforming to help us get there as well as collaborating with our vendors.
And reserving the open and buy to make sure it happens.
The numbers we quoted were specific to female.
As I mentioned it is not a big a piece of the male assortment today but we expect that to continue to grow as well so on both sides of the aisle.
And Joanne you leveraged across all types of products or more so in certain buckets and others? I will answer that.
It really is across the assortment but more intense in what we call a real fashion categories.
Fashion tops is a huge percentage.
Great thank you so much.
Best of luck the stores look a lot better.
Thank you.
Hi everyone good progress.
Thank you Barbara.
Hi what's happening with the kids business can you talk about the sales and margins there thoughts on consolidating some locations into the adult store? And then just a second question what percentage of the back-to-school assortment was pre-tested in A&amp;F and Hollister? Okay kids business -- the girls business has been tougher than the boys business.
I think we are just getting on our feet in terms of an assortment there that is clearly differentiated from the adult assortment.
And I am happy with where we are going.
We are opening a kids store by the way in London on Saturday which I have to say is about the cutest store in the world.
If you are in London you got to stop to see this thing.
But I think looking at that store you can see where we are taking the kids business.
Practically it will clearly have a personality has more personality of its own.
We are testing carve outs in the kids business.
Yeah and I can jump in on that carve out catch where in an effort to drive productivity in our boxes we are testing about 10 stores where we put kids into the adult stores and I would say during the test we are watching to make sure we get the expected increase in productivity within the store.
Okay percentage of back-to-school assortment I can't give you an exact percentage.
We look at testing in two ways one electronically; two in store test that increase is increasing.
I have said we are going to be a 100% it is not possible that we will be 100% but it is a very high percent.
Right thank you.
Thanks Barbara.
Good morning everyone this Gene Vladimirov for Simeon.
Thanks for taking that question.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about your thoughts about the promotional environment out there.
I believe you mentioned promo activity is bit lower than you expected so I was wondering if you expect that to continue and how your strategy may have changed going into the back half of the year? Thank you.
I think Gene we are assuming that the environment will remain promotional.
I think there is some indications that it may become less so and certainly as we look to the back half of the year inventory levels are probably going to be more rational and normalized than they were a year ago which should help see some year-over-year relief.
But generally speaking we would expect the environment will remain fairly promotional.
It is helpful.
Thank you.
Sorry about that.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Most of my questions have been answered but I was wondering if you could just talk a little bit about I guess what percent of the assortment is logo right now so we can just kind of get an idea around that and then just some color on the impact of the cost savings on the second quarter and if you could remind us how much they were in the first quarter? Thanks.
Hello is anyone there.
Jennifer I think you were just starting your question so if you could go back to the top on that we would appreciate it.
Why don’t we go to the next question operator? John can you speak? Can you hear me? Yes Okay sorry I’ll put her on the line.
Hey sorry about that I somehow got disconnected.
I was just wondering if you could give us a little bit of color on the amount of savings you realized in the second quarter and also remind us that the first quarter and then what percent of the assortment right now is logo just to give us an idea around that please? Thank you.
Yes I guess on the first part I think you can see on the face of the statement that magnitude of the savings in Q2 which is a little over $50 million total expense reduction for the year versus last year.
Obviously you have the comparable number from the Q1 reported figures.
I think as we have said we have taken up the overall expectation from profit improvement initiative in terms of savings from $175 million to at least $200 million.
That benefit on a full year basis is less in the back half of the year particularly in the fourth quarter as we start to lap the realization of benefits when we launched many of these initiatives in the latter part of 2013.
Percentage of the assortment which is leveled off I can’t give you but I believe that you go into the stores and look you have to look pretty hard to find it.
Good morning and congratulations on the improvement too really impressive.
I was wondering if you could talk about the inventory it looks very clean which is good but is it at all holding back the comp or you feel like you have an affability of Chase and then also on the social media campaign it looks like you guys are doing a better job.
You guys feel like you are getting a better return on that versus historically? Thanks.
I’ll pick up the inventory question.
We are happy with where we are in terms of inventory levels.
We don’t think the inventory is holding back our comps.
As we’ve talked about on this call the Chase strategy is working.
It gives us much more agility in our assortments and allows us to get into the things that are working.
So we feel good about the content as well as the level of our inventory.
Sure on the second part of the question I think we’ve continued to dialup those investments.
We think we have seen a benefit in terms of brand engagement and brand sentiment.
I think as Mike alluded to in the prepared comments we would expect that we’ll need to have a sustained period of investment to drive the full benefit from these new marketing efforts that are underway.
Great thank you.
Thanks very much guys and just a follow on question the current penetration or percent that you described as a logo business in 2Q and what you think it will be in 3Q let's say the rate of change you anticipate as a percent of total? The rate of change of Richard it's about we’re looking at having that business in 2Q and 3Q.
Okay.
And just a follow-up.
I am sorry.
Big numbers.
No it's exciting.
The store count do you see that the store editing and ongoing process obviously it has been very effective the last couple of years can you anticipate it going into 2016 and 2017? Yes absolutely Richard.
I think we said in the prepared remarks as well as 60 closures this year we would anticipate a similar run rate for the next 2 years although we have significant flexibility around that since we have a very high number of lease expirations up between now and the end of 2016.
And then either way we plan to keep significant flexibility beyond that.
So as of today we will anticipate roughly another 60 or so closures in each of 2015 and 2016 beyond the 60 closures this year.
Excellent.
Thank you very much.
Thank you Oh great thanks for taking my question and congrats on all of the progress.
I had a question on the expense savings.
I guess could you just refresh this on how much is coming from COGS how much is stores and distribution and how much is marketing and G&amp;A you know as I look at it it looks like the bulk is towards the stores and distribution and as I look at marketing and G&amp;A over the last kind of 6 or 7 years its up 25% which is more than twice what sales are up so is there more opportunity on marketing and G&amp;A? Thanks.
Yes so on the piece that is going into COGS is relatively modest.
I think we had indicated that it has been a year probably in the order of $10 million on a full year basis that number has moved around a little bit since then.
So the great majority of the $200 million plus numbers in expense and the great majority of that is in the stores and distribution lying with a lesser component in MG&amp;A.
We have certainly anticipated some additional savings beyond $200 million in 2015 but I think it’s a little early to be too specific on that.
And you have invested in marketing have you found offsets in sort of some of your more traditional marketing efforts? Yes we have and there is some reduction of offsetting components of marketing.
Okay great.
Thanks good luck.
Hey guys thanks for squeezing me in.
Just a quick question relating to your DTC business it looks like I don’t know numbers that could be as big as 25% of your total business by the end of the year.
As you close more stores 2015 and 2016 how big do you think DTC change that can offset but already seems it is higher than many of your competitors and then in terms of the fulfillment centers and all the major Asian markets do you expect any incremental expenses associated with the roll out of this? Thank you.
Yes on the first question I think back in our Investor Day last November we referenced DTC getting to 25% of the business.
Overtime I think we then said earlier in this year that we told that number was likely conservative when we see it continue to go higher.
I don’t think we are in a position where we could say a specific percentage.
I think there is a lot of factors that will flow into that but we certainly believe very strongly that DTC is going to be growing out of that business over the next few years and we are investing behind that as a very high priority.
In terms of the fulfillment centers most of that is really behind us in terms of the investment we’ve made to set that up and in fact as I alluded to in an earlier question the fact that we have the fulfillment capability within Asia low as our shipping handling expense which we think is a positive in terms of what I can help us do with the business going forward.
But we don’t anticipate significant incremental expense as a result of setting up those fulfillment capabilities.
What I would like to add is that they are really thrilling part of DTC is the international growth.
Okay thanks guys.
Good luck Thank you.
I think that’s it thank you.
Thank you.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Please standby we are about to begin.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Abercrombie &amp; Fitch Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
(Operator Instructions) Now at this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Brian Logan.
Mr.
Logan please go ahead sir.
Good morning and welcome to our third quarter earnings call.
Earlier this morning we released our third quarter sales and earnings income statement balance sheet store opening and closing summary and updated financial history.
Please feel free to reference these materials which are available on our website.
Also available on our website is an investor presentation which we will be referring to in our comments during this call.
Today's earnings call is being recorded and the replay may be accessed through the internet at abercrombie.com under the Investors section.
The call is scheduled for one hour.
Joining me today are Mike Jeffries Chief Executive Officer; Jonathan Ramsden Chief Operating Officer; and Joanne Crevoiserat Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin I remind you that any forward-looking statements we may make today are subject to the Safe Harbor statement found in our SEC filings.
After our prepared comments this morning we will be available to take your questions for as long as time permits.
With that I will hand the call over to Mike for some opening remarks.
Thank you Brian and good morning everyone.
It is very clear that the young apparel sector in which we operate is going through a period of disruption and turmoil.
In response to that we are making significant changes across many aspects of how we operate as a company.
These changes include; first shifting to a branded organization; second making major changes in our assortments including faster speed-to-market and lower AUC; third engaging how we -- changing how we engage with our customer; fourth introducing new store designs; fifth aggressively investing in DTC and omni-channel; sixth closing domestic stores; and seventh taking well in excess of $200 million of expense out of our model.
In light of a very difficult quarter we must ask ourselves and I know that many of you ask the same questions are we making the right changes are we moving fast enough will these changes be enough to overcome a very challenging environment.
Despite the difficult results for the quarter we believe the answer to these questions is 'yes ' and I will come back to that in a moment.
As you know from our pre-release a few weeks ago the third quarter proved to be more difficult than expected as the trend weakened across all brands and channels.
Store traffic improved in August but then declined significantly for September and October.
Reduced logo business continued to weigh heavily on our results contributing approximately 12 percentage points to our down 10 comp for the quarter with non-logo business comping up slightly.
Lower than expected sales were compounded by a lower merchandise margin as our AUR came down in a very promotional environment and by a strengthening dollar.
Continued excellent progress on expense reduction mitigated but was not able to fully offset lower than projected gross margin dollars resulting in a significant miss to our projected EPS.
Within the numbers however there were some positives.
While comps and tops were very negative bottoms comped positively for the quarter with denim continuing to do well and our dress business remained very strong.
Comps were negative across almost all international markets but were positive in China and improved from the second quarter.
In China the quarter also marked the opening of our first mall-based A&amp;F store in Chengdu which is performing strongly and encourages us to believe in the growth potential of both brands in China.
Coming back to margin good progress on AUC cushioned an element of the AUR decline for the quarter and we see that benefit continuing through 2015.
Well always hard to quantify weather was very likely a factor in our results in September and October.
And as the weather cooled down in November we saw an improvement in our comps.
Cold weather categories performed well throughout November including the Black Friday weekend with the overall improvement in comps was maintained.
However we expect conditions to remain difficult through the balance of the fourth quarter.
Returning to the many changes we are making as a company we are very pleased to have welcomed Fran Horowitz and Christos Angelides to the company during the quarter.
Fran and Christos have been on board for around six weeks but are quickly moving into their new roles and I share the excitement that is felt across the company about the impact they will have on our business.
Fran and Christos will join our next earnings call and provide their perspectives on the opportunities they see for each of our brands in 2015 and beyond.
Moving to how we engage with our customer we have been very pleased with the impact of our new Hollister store fronts and beyond the nearly 60 stores already converted; we plan to convert many more stores during 2015.
To date the original 10 test stores continue to comp around 10 percentage points ahead of their control group and expanding the role out to a much larger group of stores should enable us to see an overall comp benefit in 2015.
We also remain pleased with key metrics we are seeing from our marketing initiatives.
Across both brands pan growth in platforms such as Instagram Facebook and Twitter is up over 25% year-over-year and total social engagement during the quarter was more than 4 times greater than last year.
In addition according to our social listening tool Crimson Hexagon net brand Sinemet is up close to 30% per A&amp;F and are close to 40% for Hollister since the beginning of the year.
Going forward we believe our greatest opportunity remains in improving top of phonometrics specifically brand consideration.
While it may take time for our marketing efforts to fully translate to the bottomline we believe we are getting great traction.
In addition we recently began a Hollister price test in 11 northern UK stores where we have re-ticketed most of the assortment lower with these price reductions to be offset by greater percentage reductions in AUC.
We will get a good read on this test during the fourth quarter.
As we look to 2015 a number of factors give us confidence that we will see a significant improvement in our comp trend.
This includes the abatement and neutralization of the logo headwind as we go through the year.
The benefit of the broader role out-of-store front conversions new pricing strategies in Europe and continuing to gain traction in our assortment and marketing initiatives particularly as Fran and Christos get fully up to speed in their new roles.
In the meantime we are working hard to sustain a recent improvement in the trends over the balance of the quarter although we continue to expect a very challenging environment.
Now I will hand over to Joan Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
To recap third quarter results at a high level despite a significant sales decline for the quarter and continuing AUR pressure significant expense reductions meant that our custom currency non-GAAP earnings were approximately inline with last year.
Going into more detail net sales for the quarter were $911 million down 12% to last year.
Including direct-to-consumer total comparable sales were down 10%.
Sales during the quarter were below expectations with comp sales in September and October being significantly weaker than August.
US comp sales were down 7% while total international comp sales were down 16%.
By channel store comp sales were down 14% while direct-to-consumer comp sales were up 8%.
The direct-to-consumer channel continued to outperform stores posting positive gains in all brands and all markets.
Within the stores channel continued weak traffic was the primary contributor to the lower sales trend particularly in Europe.
But average transaction value was also down driven by lower average unit retail.
Within the DTC segment an increase in conversion rate was partially offset by a decrease in average transaction value.
By brand the comp sales including direct-to-consumer were down 6% for Abercrombie &amp; Fitch down 10% for abercrombie kids and down 12% for Hollister which is disproportionately weighed by European comp sales.
Comp sales by gender were approximately in line.
In addition weakness in tops particularly fleece and male graphic tees more than offset positive trends in jeans and dresses.
Changes in foreign currency exchange rates versus a year ago also adversely impacted sales by approximately $8 million which was greater than anticipated.
The gross profit rate for the quarter was 62.2% 80 basis points lower than last year primarily reflecting lower international AUR and increased shipping promotion in the direct-to-consumer business partially offset by lower average unit cost.
Excluding pretax charges of $20 million this year and $96 million last year which are details on page 4 of our investor presentation and primarily consists of asset impairment in Gilly Hicks restructuring charges.
Adjusted non-GAAP operating expense for the quarter was $515 million down $85 million or 14% from last year representing 160 basis points of leverage.
Expense savings were significantly greater than anticipated coming into the quarter due to continued tight expense management and the realization of significant expense savings on lower sales.
And on an adjusted non-GAAP basis stores and distribution expense for the quarter was $411 million down $69 million from last year representing 140 basis points of leverage.
The decreased expense was driven primarily by savings in store payroll and other controllable store expenses which was partially offset by higher direct-to-consumer expense.
On an adjusted non-GAAP basis marketing general and administrative expense for the quarter was $104 million down $16 million or 13% from last year.
The decline in MG&amp;A expense was primarily due to a decrease in compensation related expense including incentive and equity compensation expense partially offset by an increase in marketing expense.
Other operating income was $2 million for the quarter compared to $10 million last year which included a $6 million benefit associated with insurance recovery.
On an adjusted non-GAAP basis operating income for the quarter was $54 million compared to $60 million last year.
And operating margin was 5.9% flat to last year.
The effective tax rate for the quarter excluding the effect of charges was 36.7% versus 31.1% last year which included a benefit of $5 million related to certain discrete tax matters.
The tax rate for the quarter was higher than anticipated reflecting a lower proportion of earnings being generated from international operation than previously expected.
For the quarter the company reported adjusted non-GAAP net income per diluted share of $0.42 compared to adjusted non-GAAP net income per diluted share of $0.52 last year.
Turning to the balance sheet we ended the quarter with $321 million in cash and cash equivalent and borrowings outstanding of $300 million.
Including amounts which could be drawn under our asset-based revolving credit facility we ended the quarter with total liquidity in excess of $670 million.
We also ended the quarter with total inventory at cost down 20% versus last year consistent with our expectation and reflecting improved inventory management.
We expect inventory at cost on a year-over-year basis to continue to be down at the end of the fourth quarter.
During the quarter we repurchased approximately 2 million shares at an aggregate cost of $75 million.
This brings our total year-to-date repurchases to approximately 7.3 million shares.
As of the end of the quarter we have approximately 9 million shares remaining available for repurchase under our previously announced back repurchase authorizations.
During the quarter we closed four US stores and opened seven new stores including two US A&amp;F outlet stores and two international A&amp;F mall-based stores located in China and Germany.
At the end of the quarter we operated 834 stores in the US and 166 stores in Canada Europe Asia Australia and the Middle East.
And with that I will hand it over to Jonathan.
Thanks Joanne and good morning everyone.
I am going to start with an update on some of our strategic initiatives and will then give an -- provide an update on our outlook for the remainder of the year.
As Mike mentioned we are disappointed with our results for the third quarter.
While we have expected better topline performance it is obvious that we remain in a challenging environment.
And this underscores the importance of our initiatives to position the company for improved performance.
As you know these efforts are oriented around four key drivers.
First improving productivity and profitability in our US stores through our initiatives around our assortment marketing and brand engagement continued closure of underperforming stores and through opening more outlet stores.
As Mike said we remain pleased with the results in the new Hollister store fronts and expect an accelerated rollout in both the US and Europe in 2015.
Our outlet business is also performing well.
US outlet stores comparable sales were up approximately 10% for the quarter and our new MFO outlet stores are performing well.
Regarding store closures we still expect to close approximately 60 stores during 2014 bringing our key listed US closures to around 280 stores excluding Gilly Hicks.
We anticipate a similar number of closures in each over the next few years but retain significant flexibility given our lease exploration built-out.
Second continuing to invest in DTC normal channel.
We continued the rollout of our omni-channel efforts during the quarter.
Ship-from-store is now live in about 370 US schools and order-in-store live in 660 US stores.
We expect these initiatives to be sales and margin accretive and we expect to have reservance to our in-store pick-up activated during 2015.
We are also working on expanding omni-channel capabilities into Europe.
During the quarter we launched localized e-commerce capabilities in Asia including local desktop and mobile sites in Japan China Hong Kong Singapore and Taiwan.
Regional fulfillment from Hong Kong and local fulfillment in China and Hollister store front on Qiemo.
It is still early days that we have seen a clear improvement in both conversion and traffic and did particularly well on Singles' Day in China.
We also remain on track with a $50 million conversion of one of our distribution centers here in New Albany to be a dedicated direct-to-consumer facility solid continuing profitable and high return international expansion.
As Mike mentioned we are pleased with our performance in China including our first A&amp;F mall-based store in Chengdu.
We are also exited by other initiatives to grow the international penetration of our brands including our first franchise arrangement in Mexico which encompasses both the A&amp;F and Hollister brands and where our first store is set to open in late spring 2015.
Fourth lowering expenses.
We continue to exceed our goals from savings from the profit improvement initiatives and our next steps include ensuring that process changes implemented during 2014 or institutionalized and continuing to drive for more efficiency in our core processes.
Moving on to our earnings outlook for the rest of 2014 we now expect full year non-GAAP adjusted diluted earnings per share in the range of $1.50 to $1.55.
The guidance is based on the assumption that full quarter comparable sales will be down by a mid to high single-digit percentage.
The guidance assumes a gross margin rate for the fourth quarter that is higher than last year but lower than a year-to-date rate.
On a sequential basis fourth quarter expense savings will be lower as we anniversary $25 million in savings realized from the profit-improvement initiatives last year.
In addition there were significant savings realized in the third quarter largely related to compensation while will not repeat in the fourth quarter.
The guidance assumes a full year effective tax rate in the upper mid 30s which now reflects a lower proportion revenue being generated in international than previously expected.
The guidance assumes a fully weighted average share count of approximately 73.1 million shares.
The guidance does not include charges related to the Gilly Hicks restructuring the company's profit improvement initiative certain corporate governance matters or other potential impairment and store closing charges.
Looking to 2015 our single highest priority is improving the comparable sales trend of our business and we are confident with the step we have outlined including the shift to branded organizational model good season that the company's needed for each of our brands will enable us to do that.
This concludes our prepared comments and we will now be happy to take your questions.
Thank you.
Thank you sir.
(Operator Instructions) We will go to Janet Kloppenburg with JJK Research.
Hi good morning everyone.
Good morning Janet.
Hi.
Michael I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more about the assortment outlays that you put in place and how that may evolve overtime to affect the comp store development? And secondly I was wondering if you could disperse the timing involved in analyzing the price test going on in UK and if those accessible what your strategies would be for the rest of Europe? Could you replicate that and what was the timing you applied? Thanks so much.
Okay.
I believe that we have made real progress in the current assortment that we have in place.
I think it's been sequential as we moved through the year.
I feel that we have a better fashion and we are gaining traction in that fashion.
I think the challenge we have in fashion is being more aggressive with it and having -- making bigger statements and having stronger points of yield about it.
I think the fashion has evolved very nicely.
I absolutely believe it will affect comp over time.
We clearly have headwind in terms of logo and the biggest factor there is that that will mitigate as we move 2015 and will absolutely affect the comp trend.
Mike are you (inaudible)? Beg your pardon.
Are you seeing a good response to the fashion product in the stores? Yes.
Absolutely.
And we continue obviously to underbuy it.
Okay.
So you will have changes to those investments as we go forward? Yes working very hard on that.
It's -- we are in a transition period.
I don't have to say this and we are not used to selling fashion as well as we are.
So we have to give people more confidence.
Okay.
Time involved in the price test in the UK the answer is yes absolutely if that is successful in the UK we would absolutely replicate it throughout Europe.
We think this is a test that will test us what can happen with all of Europe.
Thank you Janet.
And next we will go to Kimberly Greenberger with Morgan Stanley.
Great thanks.
Good morning Mike.
Morning Kimberly.
I have a quick question on your e-commerce margins.
It looks like they were back sort of the gaunt of the operating margin decline.
Looks like they were down 580 basis points this quarter.
Is that merchandise margin or what's going on in the e-commerce business that's causing those margins to be under the kind of pressure that we are seeing here? Hey Kimberly I will say those -- I think there are really three things going on there.
First of all e-comm is obviously dealing with the same overall impact of logo and the general trend of the business.
I think we have historically said we did expect the e-commerce margin to moderate over time.
One of the factors in that is shipping and handling revenue as a percentage of e-commerce sales continuing to decline and we do foresee that continuing.
On top of that we do have some discreet investments during the period including some startup costs in Asia and some other things we are doing to improve the functionality of the websites including mobile capabilities which were investments through the P&amp;L during the quarter which we expect to benefit from going forward.
But the biggest factors were I think the overall trend of the business including the logo impact and then the shipping and handling revenues.
That all said we do expect e-comm margin -- channel margin for the year to be below to mid 30s.
Below to mid 30s Jonathan? Yeah.
Okay great.
Thanks so much.
Now we will go to Simeon Siegel with Nomura Securities.
Good morning.
This Gene Vladimirov on for Simeon.
Thanks for taking our question.
I was wondering if you could give any color on the impact you are seeing in the international channel especially driven by the currency environment.
And would you be able to quantify any impact there? And also given the environment are there any updated thoughts around the international expansion? Thanks.
Yeah on FX related to the international channel I mean I think the impact that is primarily on our reported results short-term because the value of those sales are getting broad-packed to US dollar reporting is lower because of the stronger dollar in that the dollar did obviously lie significantly after our last earnings call.
So that affected the earnings we reported for the quarter.
I don't know the immediate impact in terms of the local currency sales is all that significant generally we're priced against the mall locally.
I think your second part of the question is is it if I am understanding it correctly not related to FX but just a broader question of bad international expansion given the current environment.
I think a couple of points on that.
First of all we remain very pleased with what we are seeing in China.
We referenced that our comps improved there from the second quarter and we are positive.
We are also seeing strong DTC pickup resulting from the increased store presence we have in China.
So we think the return on that investment is still very strong.
And now we remain the primary filter through which we evaluate international expansion that we believe the ROI based on what we believe to be conservative per sustainable volume assumptions including the impact of the store business on DTC or that continued investment.
But certainly based on what we are seeing in China currently we continue to believe there is significant opportunity in particular.
As we discussed in the prepared remarks we are doing our first franchising rollout in Mexico.
That's obviously a very low capital intensive option.
So we are also interested to see how that performs and how that might inform our international strategy going forward.
Next we will go to Lorraine Hutchinson with Bank of America.
Thank you good morning.
What is the operating margin in Europe look like if lower prices are rolled out more broadly? I think as we said in the prepared remarks our plan is to offset it by a greater percentage reduction in AUC.
So gross margin rate hopefully is flat to higher and then if there's lower (inaudible) drive unit pickup hopefully gross margin dollars are greater in total.
And frankly if they are not then obviously we wouldn't be rolling out that pricing to Europe more broadly.
Thank you.
Now we will go to Matt McClintock with Barclays.
Hi yes good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Hi Matt.
I was wondering if you could discuss the range of performance at Hollister store base just so we could potentially try to understand how much comp outlook you could have by closing stores.
And then also you have done some -- you have made really tremendous efforts in reducing inventory levels.
How much leaner do you need to get in inventories to begin to drive -- begin to alleviate some of the AUR pressure from markdowns? Thanks.
I can pick up the inventory question first.
So we are comfortable with our inventory level and the inventory management processes that we have in place.
We continue to focus on Chase and fabric platforming giving us the much more flexibility in the supply chain.
And so we see inventory levels down -- continuing to be down at the end of the fourth quarter.
But at these levels we feel good about our position in terms of being able to get the business.
And we do believe our inventory position going into the fourth quarter does give us some opportunity to look for AUR benefit as we move through the quarter.
We expect margin to be up in the fourth quarter over last year.
That margin improvement is driven by cost decreases.
We are not anticipating AUR to be up year-over-year in the fourth quarter but our inventory position certainly puts us in a situation where we can look for benefits as we move through the quarter.
Taking the first part of the question Matt I think the impact of year-to-year closing on the comps seems to be relatively insignificant.
We were closing 50 60 stores a year.
Typically low-volume stores.
We do see a little bit of transfer.
Those stores probably have historically comps a little lower than the rest of the chain but not to a big-enough degree that makes a significant impact.
I think the important point for us as we think about the range of store performance is the flexibility we have as a result of still a very high proportion of that fleet coming up for renewal in the US over the next two or three years.
Clearly there's a very significant channel shift that is continuing towards online that set the higher (inaudible) of that store continued to perform very well.
So I think the question for us is really about that middle group of stores that historically did pretty well but are now underperforming and whether we can improve the performance of those stores over the next couple of years with all the initiatives we are undertaking to want to keep them open lot longer term.
Thanks very much.
Now we will go to Oliver Chen with Cowen and Company.
Hi this is Courtney Wilson in for Oliver.
We are wondering if you could comment on the international logo strategy and if there's going to be any changes there going forward.
And also if you could any additional color on the brand differentiation between Abercrombie and Hollister and sort of where you are seeing the most success there? Thanks.
Let's talk a little about logo outbreak and delish this conversation because I know there's a lot of conversation there.
And there's no disputing that it's been a big headwind for us.
But we absolutely believe that de-emphasizing logo is strategically the right thing to do as we listen to our customers changing preferences.
We will continue to review our assortment on an ongoing basis to determine the optimal mix of logo by brand by geography and by channel.
We think that there could be come opportunity as we look at the business that way we are looking at it in great detail.
But the headline is that logo is declining.
We are looking to manage our way out of it as efficiently as possible.
Color on brand differentiation; I think that we are starting to see more differentiation by brand but not enough.
The concept of adding Christos and Fran will really help us in this endeavor.
So expect to see more differentiation as we go forward.
Okay.
And next we will go to Jennifer Black with Jennifer Black &amp; Associates.
Good morning Mike.
Good morning Jennifer.
I wondered if you could talk about learning on the test stores you have put with kids into the adult stores and what your strategy is going forward? And then if you could give a little bit of more color about the kids' business? That would be awesome.
Thank you.
Sure.
The kids' carve-outs we are looking at very carefully.
We have a great deal of attention being paid to this.
We are not seeing increases in the total store business yet.
The kids' business is healthy in the stores.
We are not producing the volume that we need to be in the reduced square footage in the adult store.
So we have a big group of people headed by Joanne as a matter of fact.
Looking at this how can we be more productive in the adult space.
How can we merchandise that store more intensely.
We practically eliminated clearance that's not helped us but we are dedicated to make this work because we think the kids' business in this carve-out strategy makes a huge amount of sense.
Kids' business I think is starting to look better and better.
I have to say that opening the London kids' store helped us in terms of re-imagining that business in terms of content and marketing.
I am very optimistic about the kids' business but we got to make this carve-out strategy work.
Great.
Thank you so much.
And we will.
And now we will take a question from Neely Tamminga with Piper Jaffray.
Great.
Good morning.
I just wanted to ask little bit more specific around the timeline of two factors.
One the logo abatement how should we be thinking about that as the course through 2015? And then also timing on that pricing strategy you are working on in Europe when could we see either a next layer of test hit the market and when would that be deployed within 2013? Thank you.
Hi Neely it's Joanne.
In terms of logo abatement we do see the headwinds moderating through the spring season but we still expect headwinds in the spring and the logo headwinds will be largely behind us as we get to the back-half of the year and adversary what we experienced this third quarter.
As it relates to the timing of the Europe pricing strategy we are reading that pricing through the first quarter and certainly depending on the results that we read we expect to more broadly roll that out for back-to-school and in the back half of the year.
Thank you very much.
Now we will go to Tom Filandro with Susquehanna International.
Hi thanks.
I wanted to just ask a question a couple of question on this re-ticketing task if I can.
First I was hoping you guys could actually quantify what the pricing adjustments are that you have made? Second I was hoping you can tell us a little bit of that how you are marketing those adjustments in store? Are they different than how you previously market pricing? And finally I think you mentioned that you are going to offset that with a greater reduction in AUC.
Is that exclusive to this test or if this -- is that just a broader comment? Thank you.
I will take it off with the AUC comment.
The AUC effort is broad based.
And we are leveraging the work we are doing in AUC to allow us to make specific investments in retail where we think we are going to get a return.
So the AUC efforts are definitely broad based.
In terms of the pricing quantifying the adjustments it really varies on a category by category basis.
We are studying the competition and managing the pricing at a category down to an item level to understand the elasticity and the response we are seeing to the pricing.
I don't have a one number that I can point to on… I might help a little there.
I think in total it's probably down about 15%.
It's -- we've ticketed the whole assortment lower but then we have taken key items with really compelling price points.
And that's how we are marketing it.
We are marketing it front of store key items killer price points.
We are doing some targeted geo marketing as well.
So we will see.
If I may say that's all I think is -- it is a great question because I think we -- as we told about earlier on we are getting very good metrics on brand engagement brand sentiment.
But our big opportunity really is to drive brand consideration i.e.
getting new customers or lapsed customers back into our stores and we think marketing around these AUR efforts as well as we are using the new converted store fronts as we also roll us out into Europe is a great opportunity to really reach a new cohort of customers.
Thank you very much.
Best of luck and happy holidays.
Thank you.
Thank you Tom.
Now we will go to Jennifer Davis with Buckingham Research Group.
Hey good morning.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about Europe the store volumes there related to the US or relative to the US and four-wall profitability in Europe.
I know international is down 200 basis points but I assume Europe had the kind of the drag on that.
And then secondly I was just wondering if you could talk a little bit more on Black Friday what you saw in a little more detail and kind of general trends and you thoughts on Black Friday especially given that NRF survey and the controversy around that? Thanks.
Okay you want me to -- let me try the Black Friday weekend because we were all very engaged.
You always are Mike.
Okay.
I didn't see any of you out there.
Okay.
When we netted all out the trend was consistent with the rest of November which as we said showed improvement over the third quarter.
However the cadence within the week shifted with pro-forward of online from Cyber Monday to Black Friday.
That was a big deal.
In addition the channel shift continued with a greater mix to DTC which -- and I have to say that we are well positioned given our investments we have made in DTC reduce store count and that flexibility that Jonathan's talked about.
Interestingly Black Friday became a big deal in UK this year and we were well positioned to do well.
Our regional fulfillment gave us an opportunity to fill demand quickly.
But interestingly enough Black Friday UK store comp was 23% DTC orders plus 263% for a total of 63%.
I think this conversation reinforces the fact that we live in a global society and that's what this business is about today.
Coming to the other part of your question about international stores.
Yeah the margin erosion you are seeing there is primarily driven by the de-leverage on the negative comps as well as the point Joanne referenced about the international AUR coming down.
We did have some fairly significant profit improvement initiative expense savings that have offset that.
So clearly that margin rate has come down but it's still on a full-year basis got to be we think at a pretty healthy place but it does underscore the importance of stabilizing our comps in Europe and hopefully improving them over time to sustain margins which at this point remain healthy and certainly much healthier than the US slower margins.
Right.
Is the sales volume in Europe still kind of well above the US average? The average store productivity yeah absolutely.
Yes.
Yeah okay all right.
Thanks.
Best of luck for holiday.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Now we will go to Marni Shapiro with Retail Tracker.
Hi guys good morning everybody.
Hi Marni.
Hi Marni.
Hi.
So I just -- could we focus a little bit on the fashion it sounds like the fashion is selling and it looks fantastic in the stores but you own four pieces of each item.
So as I look forward -- You are right.
Could we possibly see inventory and some muscle behind these buys by spring; and what would that pay for sale.
Is there a different percentage of fashion online and are you seeing consistent fees at the fashion selling online and do you need to promote the fashion as much? And then finally around denim and fashion you said that denim actually did well.
Was it the fashion that was doing well or was it being very well priced core items that were doing well? Let me start with the bottom and then we will work our way up.
In denim it was fashion and core.
Looks good at the top of your question list can we put some muscle behind the fashion.
And now I am going to turn this over to Joanne.
The answer to that question is absolutely.
We have been working on driving more depth behind our fashion buys.
Since we saw the reaction -- the customer reaction through back-to-school we definitely will have more behind fashion items in the spring.
We do think it will be a benefit to sales.
And in terms of the online business we have an extended assortment online.
The fashion does sell well online and we continue to look for opportunities to have web exclusive items offered to our customers through the online channel.
If I am looking forward to spring if you could increase the percentage of fashion will there or is there an opportunity to pull back on some of the blanket promotions so that you don't have to promote the fashion but you could promote the steps that is in selling as well? From your lips to God's ears.
That's been a lot for the holiday.
I don't think they are supplying.
Now we will go to Anna Andreeva with Oppenheimer.
Great thanks so much.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
I am wondering about performance of non-logo business in Europe are you adjusting the mix of non-logo in the region in other words did you guys pull back a little too fast in non-logo? And curious on the store rationalization opportunity there.
I think you have some of this stores with kick-out options now.
Are you looking to rationalize any of the real estate in Europe? Thanks.
The non-logo business in Europe is performing.
I think it's difficult to say where we are adjusting the mix in total because it's different by channel by geography by brand.
But we are making adjustments some up some down but it's not significant.
On the other part of your question Anna the great majority of our stores in Europe continue to operate at healthy full margin rate so the majority are in the north of 20%.
We have a very small number of cash flow negative stores in Europe and literally less than a handful.
So there are a couple of those that we will contemplate closing.
But at this point we do not foresee a significant reduction in our real estate footprint in Europe.
That all said we do have significant release flexibility also in Europe because of some of the provisions we have built into our leases as we expanded into Europe.
But at this point we don't foresee -- expecting to use them.
Now we will go to Susan Anderson with FBR Capital.
Hi thanks for taking my question.
I was wondering if you can give us some more color on your omni-channel initiatives where you are with that and then also if you are seeing any benefit yet in sales and margins? And just in terms of AUCs in Europe if you do bring them down was the AUC brought down more than in the US or should we think about those margins becoming closer to the US? Thanks.
So just starting with the omni-channels we said in the prepared remarks we have order in-store live in 660 US stores ship-from-store live in 370 stores that really only one live in the last few weeks.
So frankly it's too early to give a meaningful read on it.
But we are seeing those are nice week to week builds as that starts to ramp up.
I think we will certainly have a much clearer view on that by the time we get to the February earnings call.
On the question on AUR in Europe we are investing in price in Europe but we do expect average unit costs to come down to maintain our margins in Europe.
So we expect to maintain that spread to -- in terms of four-wall margin in our international business versus our US business.
Great thanks that's helpful.
Good luck next quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Next we take a question from Lindsay Drucker-Mann with Goldman Sachs.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I wanted to ask about in Europe we heard a number of retailers complain about weather-driven softness.
Do you attribute the sequential deterioration in your business? Did weather play a role in that or is it more sort of some of your specific issues? And then secondly Jonathan you talked about cost savings program coming in generally ahead of expectations.
I was hoping you could give us an update on cumulatively where you expect to end fiscal '14 with in terms of your total cost savings and whether there is more we can look forward to in 2015? Thank you.
Let me take the top of the question.
The answer is we think weather played a factor in the sequential decline from August to September and October.
And I don't think it was just Europe I think it included the US but extreme in Europe.
And as we entered November as I said in the opening comments our business as the weather got cooler clearly improved.
So how much was weather driven I can't tell you but there was a weather factor and quite honestly we don't like to talk about weather as a factor in our business but it was there.
On the profit improvement initiative Lindsay we are now well north of $200 million and identified annualized savings.
Some of that will flow through it's already identified for 2015.
I think the more important point though is that we not done we need to continue to find efficiencies in our model going forward and we certainly think there is ongoing opportunity.
So that's going to remain a focus.
If I could just get one more in on tax rate.
I know you haven't given '15 guidance but based on the shift in your business mix where Europe's come under some more pressure and we are seeing seems like that our flow-through from the stores in the US.
Should we be looking for tax rate next year to be consistent with what you are guiding for this year? I think it's a little early to say.
Frankly it's going to depend on lots of other assumptions that will roll into our budget when we get to February and talk about our guidance for '15.
So I think at this point we -- there's not a whole lot we can add to that.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Now we will go to Dorothy Lakner with Topeka Capital Markets.
Thanks.
Yes -- just on -- I had a question for Jonathan on the omni-channel effort.
I think you'd said reserve in-store and in-store pickup would be something that you'd have in play sometime in 2015 if I am not mistaken.
I just wondered if we should assume that's a back-half thing? And then I also wondered if you could give a little bit of color on US comps for Hollister given that there is so much pressure there from the European part of the business which is more heavily weighted to logo.
I know the US obviously have an overall comp decline of 7%.
But just if you could provide a little bit more color on how Hollister is doing here? So I will take the first part.
And -- yes so reserve in-store pickup we do expect to have activated in 2015 and it will likely be in the back-half of the year Dorothy to your question.
Great thanks.
And in terms of the comps for Hollister the spread to A&amp;F is one way we measure the Hollister business and the spread that A&amp;F in US was about half of what it was in the international business.
So we do attribute a large portion of the Hollister difficulty to the European market and the European business.
Great.
Thanks so much for that clarification.
And good luck for holiday.
Thank you.
We will next go to Christian Buss with Credit Suisse.
Yes I was wondering if you could talk about changes you are making on the flip buy Chase to improve speed-to-market.
Could you talk about where you are in that process and how you expect that to develop in 2015? Yes we are continuing to make progress in speed-to-market the two initiatives that we have spoken to that are meaningfully moving the needle there or both fabric platforming and our Chase process.
And we are on target.
We have -- Chase in the female business is between 10% to 20% today we do expect to double that in the spring season.
So we expect to continue to make improvements.
On the amount of Chase that we have dedicated in our assortments and our open-to-buy it is a bigger piece of the female business right now a smaller piece in male but we expect a male to also increase in penetration as we move into 2015.
And fabric platforming continues to be a focus.
We are getting tremendous support from our vendor base they have been terrific partners with us with both Chase and fabric platforming.
And both -- we are platforming fabric across multiple categories and multiple fabrics but we expect to increase that as we move into 2015 as well.
That's very helpful.
And could I ask one last question about SG&amp;A.
How much of the benefit to the SG&amp;A dollar spent this quarter was a reversal of incentive compensation? Let us check that figure and we will come back to it.
I think it was about $9 million.
$9 million.
Thank you.
Okay we will take our last question from Rebecca Duval with BlueFin Research Partners.
Hi great.
Thanks for taking my call.
My question was also kind of along the lines of supply chain initiatives that you are working on.
And I am wondering since you are still in the preliminary stages at a lot of your fabric platforming do you expect to see improved IMU opportunity going into 2015? Average unit cost is definitely something that has been a focus of ours through 2014 and into 2015.
Fabric platforming is definitely an element of that.
And certainly the ability to have more flexibility closer in gives us an opportunity to avoid markdowns and get the product right.
But we continue to work with our suppliers and look for averaging our cost reductions and believe we have made progress with 2014 and believe there's more there in 2015.
Great thank so much it's very helpful.
Happy holidays to you guys.
Thank you.
There are no further questions at this time.
So that does conclude today's conference.
We thank everyone for their participation.
And that concludes today’s question and answer session.
I would like to turn it back over to our speakers for any additional comments.
Okay that does conclude today’s conference.
We thank everyone again for their participation.
Thank you.
Welcome to the Abercrombie &amp; Fitch Fourth Quarter Fiscal Year 2014 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions].
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Brian Logan.
Mr.
Logan please go ahead.
Good morning and welcome to our fourth quarter earnings call.
Earlier this morning we released our fourth quarter sales and earnings income statement balance sheet store opening and closing summary and an updated financial history.
Please feel free to reference these materials which are available on our website.
Also available on our website is an investor presentation which we will be referring to in our comments during this call.
Today's earnings call is being recorded and the replay may be accessed through the Internet at Abercrombie.com under the Investors section.
The call is scheduled for one hour.
Joining me today are Arthur Martinez Executive Chairman; Jonathan Ramsden Chief Operating Officer; and Joanne Crevoiserat Chief Financial Officer.
Also joining me today are Christos Angelides President of A&amp;F and Abercrombie Kids and Fran Horowitz President of Hollister who will be available to answer questions.
Before we begin I remind you that any forward-looking statements we may make today are subject to the Safe Harbor statement found in our SEC filings.
After our prepared comments this morning we will be available to take your questions for as long as time permits.
With that I hand the call over to Arthur for some opening remarks.
Thank you Brian.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
I would like to make a few brief introductory remarks this morning.
First it is clear that our company has gone and is going through a period of significant transition as we respond to major changes and challenges in the macro environment.
In 2014 we reconstituted the Board of Directors with seven new directors all with significant retail experience.
We initiated a transformational change to a brand driven organization recruited two highly skilled brand presidents to lead that transformation and of course Mike Jeffries departed at the end of the year.
While our efforts may take some time to show meaningful results the Board of Directors and management are fully aligned in being confident that we're taking the right steps to enable our brands to deliver their full potential.
Strategically what are we doing? First evolving our merchandise assortment and particularly our in-store customer experience.
Rationalizing our store fleet while reinvesting in stores that should remain open.
We're investing in our successful DTC and omni-channel initiatives and we're continuing to reduce expenses and making productivity a way of life for this company.
Organizationally we're completing our transition to a fully branded model we're ensuring that the right teams are in place beneath our brand presidents to lead these brands and we're increasing both accountability and opportunity throughout our organization.
While our team is fully aware of the challenges we face there is optimism across the organization that we're on the right track.
Let me say a couple of things about 2015.
As you all well know it remains a challenging consumer and competitive environment and we expect the first half of the year to be challenging.
This includes continued logo headwinds for the first two quarters and a major currency headwind throughout the year.
However we're implementing many changes that we believe will be significant in driving the business forward.
And as we don't yet have total visibility as to the timing or magnitude of the impact of these initiatives we won't be providing specific sales or EPS guidance at this point but we do expect to resume doing so when we have greater visibility.
Now I would like to hand it over to Jonathan Ramsden but we look forward to taking your questions later in the call.
Thanks Arthur and good morning everyone.
I want to start by echoing Arthur's comments about strategic and organizational changes we're making at A&amp;F.
The challenges in the current environment make these all the more important and we believe we're taking the right steps.
A critical objective is to arrest the comp declines in both our U.S.
and international stores many of our initiatives are targeted at that objective.
These include; first evolutions in our merchandise assortments.
Second continuing the successful rollout of new Hollister storefronts.
In 2014 we rolled out the new storefronts to about 50 U.S.
stores and four UK stores and we're pleased with the results.
Third improving our in-store customer experience which will be supported by a new store management incentive plan giving our store and district managers a greater stake in the performance of their stores.
Fourth continuing to grow our U.S.
outlet business.
U.S.
outlet stores comparable sales were up around 20% for the quarter and we're pleased with the performance of our new stores and the margins they are achieving.
Fifth closing underperforming stores.
Excluding Gilly Hicks we closed 51 U.S.
stores in 2014 bringing our cumulative closures since 2010 to around 275 stores.
We expect to maintain this rate of closures and have nearly 70% of our U.S.
leases expiring over the next three years.
Last adjusting international pricing.
As you know we began a Hollister price test in the UK during the fourth quarter where we re-ticketed most of the assortment lower.
Based on the test results which were margin dollar accretive and our most recent competitive benchmarking we plan to roll out lower pricing across all European Hollister stores in the coming months.
Investing in DTC and omni-channel is another critical component of our plans.
We now have ship from store in 375 U.S.
stores and order in-store in 650 U.S.
stores and we will continue the rollout in 2015.
We're also working on adding omni-channel capabilities in Europe.
We're pleased with our DTC localization efforts in Asia.
Hollister DTC sales in China were up 250% for the quarter also reflecting growing brand awareness driven by our store openings.
Selective international expansion remains an important part of our plans.
In the past year we have opened four stores in China including a flagship store in Shanghai and our first A&amp;F mall-based store in Chengdu two Hollister stores in Japan our second Hollister store in UAE and our first A&amp;F store in Kuwait.
For 2015 we will continue opening in high-quality locations in these markets.
We also continue to pursue other opportunities to increase our brand reach.
During the quarter we entered a fragrance license agreement with Inter Parfums to create new perfumes and fragrance products.
Inter Parfums will distribute these fragrances internationally in specialty retailers high-end department stores and duty-free shops and in the U.S.
in duty-free shops.
While we already have a successful fragrance business we believe that we can leverage this into a much larger global opportunity.
Turning to our profit improvement initiative cumulative savings have now reached approximately $250 million a portion of which we have reinvested in initiatives such as DTC omni-channel and marketing.
Process and expense efficiency will be an ongoing part of our plans.
Finally our move to a branded organizational model is now complete with remaining customer and product facing functions having moved to a branded model in the past couple of months.
We're confident that the aggregate effect of all of these changes will enable us to improve our performance as we go forward.
I'm now going to hand it over to Joanne to go through our results for the fourth quarter and outlook for 2015.
Thanks Jonathan and good morning everyone.
I will start with a brief recap of our fourth quarter results and then talk about our outlook for 2015.
For the quarter net sales were $1.120 billion down 14% last year.
Changes in foreign currency exchange rates versus the year ago accounted for approximately 270 basis points of the sales decline.
Including direct-to-consumer total comp sales were down 10% somewhat below expectations.
By region comp sales were down 6% in the U.S.
and down 17% in international markets.
By channel store comp sales were down 13% which represents a slight sequential improvement over third quarter.
However direct-to-consumer comp sales were up 1% a considerable deceleration from the prior quarter primarily driven by the European business where site traffic was down and shipping and other promotions drove less of a benefit than in prior quarters.
Within the stores channel continued weak traffic was the primary contributor to the sales trend particularly in Europe.
By brand comp sales were down 9% for Abercrombie &amp; Fitch down 6% for Abercrombie Kids and down to 11% for Hollister which continues to be weighed disproportionately by European comp sales.
By gender comp sales for male outperformed female.
Within male weakness in tops particularly fleece and graphic tees more than offset positive trends in bottoms and outerwear.
Within female positive trends in jeans dresses and outerwear were more than offset by weakness in tops.
Reduced logo business continues to weigh heavily on our results contributing approximately 12 percentage points to our down 10 comp for the quarter with non-logo business comping up slightly.
The gross profit rate for the quarter was 60.9% 190 basis points higher than last year.
Benefits from lower average unit costs were partially offset by net negative effects from foreign currency exchange rates.
On a constant currency basis average unit retail was up slightly year-over-year.
Excluding pretax charges of $40 million this year and $44 million last year adjusted non-GAAP operating expense for the quarter was $556 million down $65 million or 10% from last year which was on top of a $71 million reduction last year.
I would like to take a moment to review the excluded pretax charges for the quarter which are detailed on page 5 of our investor presentation.
These include $17 million of store-related asset impairment charges which includes the A&amp;F Seoul flagship store and our two stores in Australia.
The performance of our Australian stores has been disappointing even after allowing for the seasonality challenge of operating in the southern hemisphere.
We therefore decided during the quarter to activate the provision in our leases which enables us to make a country exit and close those stores around the end of fiscal 2015.
As a result of this decision we also incurred lease termination charges of just over $2 million during the quarter.
During the quarter we also decided to put the company's aircraft on the market and this triggered an impairment write-down of $11 million to the estimated net sales value.
We also incurred $5 million in transition costs related to the former CEO separation agreement and the current CEO selection process.
Finally we incurred $2 million in charges related to the impairment of Gilly Hicks assets as we decided during the quarter that we would wind down that business in 2015 excluding charges overall expense savings were significantly greater than anticipated coming into the quarter due to continued tight expense management and the realization of expense savings on lower sales.
On an adjusted non-GAAP basis stores and distribution expense for the quarter was $442 million down $63 million from last year and benefited from the effects of FX.
The decreased expense was driven primarily by savings in store payroll and other controllable store expenses which was partially offset by higher direct-to-consumer expense.
On an adjusted non-GAAP basis marketing general and administrative expense for the quarter was $114 million down $1 million from last year.
A decrease in compensation-related expense was partially offset by an increase in marketing expense.
On an adjusted non-GAAP basis operating income for the quarter was $132 million compared to $155 million last year.
And operating margins was 11.8% roughly flat to last year.
The tax rate for the quarter excluding the effect of charges was 36.5% versus 31.4% last year reflecting a lower proportion of earnings being generated from international operations this quarter.
For the quarter the company reported adjusted non-GAAP net income per diluted share of $1.15 compared to adjusted non-GAAP net income per diluted share of $1.34 last year.
Turning to the balance sheet we ended the quarter with $530 million in cash and cash equivalents and gross borrowings outstanding of $299 million for a net cash balance of $231 million.
We also ended the quarter with total inventory at cost down 13% to last year.
Moving forward we continue to expect improvement in inventory productivity and turnover.
Details of our store openings for the quarter are included on page 11 of the investor presentation.
At the end of the year we operated 799 stores in the U.S.
and 170 stores in Canada Europe Asia Australia and the Middle East.
Moving to 2015 we're providing an outlook on elements of our performance for the year.
As we get greater visibility to the timing and impact of our strategic initiatives we expect to resume providing comp sales and EPS guidance.
As Arthur noted earlier foreign-currency exchange rates are expected to be a significant headwind to our results in 2015.
Recasting adjusted 2014 results using current exchange rates would have reduced sales by approximately $135 million and operating income by approximately $60 million net of a benefit from inventory hedges currently in place.
In addition we expect a negative impact from reduced logo sales to modestly abate in the first half of the year and then neutralize in the second half.
We expect gross margin rate to be flat to slightly up for 2015 driven by AUC reductions offset by adverse currency effects.
With regard to operating expense we expect the benefit from FX and expected savings from the profit improvement initiative to be offset by the restoration of normal incentive compensation accruals and increased investment in DTC and omni-channel.
Excluded from our operating expense outlook are potential impairment and store closing charges and other potential business transformation and restructuring charges.
We expect the tax rate to be in the mid-40s which reflects erosion in European earnings including the effect of changes in foreign currency.
In addition we're projecting weighted average account of approximately 70 million shares excluding the effect of potential share buybacks.
Turning to capital allocation for 2015 our philosophy remains to be highly disciplined in allocating capital to where it will derive the greatest return on a risk-adjusted basis.
We're targeting capital expenditures of around $150 million for the year which are prioritized towards new stores and store updates as well as DTC and IT investments to support our growth initiatives.
In 2015 we expect to roll out the new Hollister store fronts to about 50 additional stores in the U.S.
and about 20 additional stores in Europe.
In addition we plan to expand our omni-channel capabilities and are close to completion on the conversion of one of our distribution centers here in New Albany to be a dedicated direct-to-consumer facility.
With regard to real estate plans for the year we plan to open 15 full price stores in key international growth markets of China Japan and the Middle East and four full price stores in North America.
We also plan to open 11 new outlet stores in the U.S..
In addition we currently expect to close approximately 60 stores in the U.S.
during 2015 through natural lease expirations.
With that I will hand it back over to Arthur.
Thank you Joanne.
I would like to say a final word on the selection process for a new CEO.
First to tell you that the process for this selection continues at pace and there is full Board engagement in the process.
We're confident that we will identify and select the right candidate and as we have previously disclosed we're considering both internal and external candidates.
The overall process is moving at an acceptable pace but it is important to note that these things take time and it is more important for us that we get the right person than to move quickly.
The Board has a very high level of confidence in the existing leadership team within the company during this period of time.
Thank you and we're now available to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions].
Our first question today comes from Lindsay Drucker Mann Goldman Sachs.
I have a question about international Jon and it is good to hear that the initial tests that you have done about lower prices in Hollister UK are dollar margin accretive.
But I actually was curious if we sort of normalize for when your hedges roll off how should we think about the percentage margin profile of that division? We have always talked about it as being a much higher margin division.
I think it is 10 points ahead of the U.S.
this year.
So if the strategy works to take price points lower what will the margin profile be especially when you normalize for the move in currency? Well let me bracket Lindsay the currency piece first and just be clear what we're saying.
So the AUR reductions drove sufficient incremental units in local currency to make the overall impact gross margin dollar accretive.
We have said previously that the AUR reductions setting aside currency for a second we would expect to at least offset by AUC reductions.
So that's been our -- I think that is what we have said in prior calls.
With regard to currency we haven't been specific with regard to the ongoing margin effect but I think you have a pretty good sense of what our gross margins are in Europe and you can apply that rate change effect to the cost of goods component since as you know that cost of goods component is denominated in dollars.
So if we were to normalize for spot rates of currency today then you talked about the $60 million drag on 2015 what is that? How much more is there left to do if spot rates hold in 2016? And then just a quick follow-up -- are there any additional restructuring savings that we should be looking forward to just to help continue to right size the cost base? Thanks.
So on the first part Lindsay netted in the $60 million impact in 2015 is a $15 million hedging benefit.
So if rates stayed where they are today rolling into 2016 we would have a further $15 million impact when we exhausted our current hedges.
I think the second part of your question was about continuing restructuring actions generally or specific to offsetting the currency impact? Do you have more cost savings to announce to offset some of the margin pressures? Or just generally are there more cost savings we can look forward to? Well I think as Arthur put it earlier on in the prepared remarks we regard ongoing process efficiency and expense reduction as being a way of life going forward.
So we're never going to sit here and say we're done.
Our next question comes from Susan Anderson FBR Capital Markets.
So it sounds like the logo business in fourth quarter the impact improved minus 12%.
Should we expect about the same in the first half? And then also could you update us on what percent this business is it now versus last year? Thanks.
The logo impact contributed 12 points to our negative 10 comp which was consistent actually with third quarter.
And to your question in terms of penetration to the total business historically this business has been in the mid to high 20s in terms of penetration to the total business.
We've brought that down now to the low to mid-teens and we think that is about the right level.
So as we move into the -- 2015 we do expect at these levels to have some headwind in the first half of the year but somewhat abated from where we were Q3 and Q4.
And as we get to the back half of 2015 we think that will neutralize.
If I could just interject Susan for a second it is Christos.
It is one thing talking about the quantity of logo but what's very important and something that Fran and I are focused on here is the quality of the logo.
And actually we feel that is more important than getting the relative quantity correct.
And that is something we're very focused on.
So I just wanted to kind of make that point.
In addition every part of our business is as important as logo it is important we get that point across to you as well.
Dresses are very important denim is very important.
So the time and effort we will be spending on logo we will equally be spending that time and effort on other parts of the assortment.
Next we will take a question from Thomas Filandro Susquehanna International Group.
I want to say welcome to Arthur Christos and Fran.
We do look forward to your collective impact alongside with the rest of the team.
So I actually -- my question is both from Christos and Fran.
So when can we see a definitive impact on the product and the customer experience? And maybe you guys could just tell us what we should be looking for that sort of marks your respective stamps on the brands? Thank you.
So I think the first introductions of new product will happen in back-to-school and moving into Labor Day.
So that is the first time you can walk into a store or go onto DTC and see some real difference in the product.
From an Abercrombie perspective our priorities are very much focused around design and the product content.
And we're making sure that that content reflects trends.
So if I can give you an example we're focusing on the very best prints the latest prints whether that is lenticular or sublimated.
We're looking at sweater dresses the 1970s trend.
That is product content but we're also making sure that the variety and styling is different.
So in Abercrombie we have never offered zips in jeans before it is only been -- jeans have only been available in button fly.
So you will now be able to purchase zips.
We're specifically making sure that products in Abercrombie are original iconic new -- and new is a very very important word here.
And also aspirational.
So you will see the introduction of hand-painted prints for example.
We're going to make sure that we tap into Abercrombie's heritage and particularly focus on attention to detail products that hopefully take your breath away.
What I do have to make clear though is that in the assortment for back-to-school and Labor Day I am sure we have made mistakes as well as successes and we're quite open about that.
We don't know what those mistakes are and we don't know what the successes are either.
But either way we will react quickly to rectify either the mistakes or the areas where we have been successful.
Just to echo or reiterate a little bit from the Hollister perspective the teams are working extremely hard on evolving our product.
We have tremendous tremendous opportunity here at the Hollister brand both in logo and non-logo merchandise.
We're looking to strike a balance in our assortments between fashion logo core must haves.
We're also looking to put together a global assortment here that appeals to our customer around the world.
So lots of work in progress here.
The teams are really working extremely hard.
They are very energized and very excited about what we're doing.
We will move to our next question Randy Konik with Jefferies.
I just want to go over just a couple things just on the international side.
I think when you spoke about how you are getting of Australia are there other areas of the world internationally where you have lease terms where you can get out of I guess onerous stores or leases etcetera? Can you kind of go over what the picture looks like there? And then just following up on -- I'm just trying to get a sense of answering the question on where these four wall international margins should sit if we're going to lower pricing.
How much lower are we going to potentially lower pricing internationally? And just think -- so we can get a sense of how that four wall margin would look would be very helpful.
And then lastly when you gave your CapEx guidance for 2015 of $150 million and you gave us the breakdown of what the CapEx was for 2014 in terms of $88 million related to IT home office etc.
longer-term where should that CapEx number kind of set would be very helpful.
Thank you.
Okay so let me take the first couple of parts of that Randy then maybe Joanne will pick up the last part.
Starting with real estate as we went through Europe and now as we have gone through Asia wherever we have been able to we have negotiated those country exit options into our leases.
So particularly with a market like Australia which we always knew was a test we wanted to make sure that if the test didn't perform we had the ability to exit fairly quickly which is what we have done.
I think that is consistent with a long pattern of us being disciplined about knowing when it is time to exit a particular brand or store or operation.
So turning to Australia specifically it was a test we always knew it would be challenging because of the southern hemisphere component.
I think even above and beyond that it was more challenging than we expected.
So we decided to exit that market in the last couple of months.
With regard to four wall international margins I will bifurcate that between Europe and Asia.
Europe if you look at 2014 our EBITDA margins were still around 30% so notwithstanding the comp declines we have seen for several years still a very healthy cash generative business.
We're going to take some impact from that in 2015 and the $60 million of EBIT impact that Joanne referred to is primarily coming within Europe so you can model that into thinking about the margin rate for Europe.
Asia EBITDA margins are currently a little bit lower but I think we've said consistently over time that we expected more of a build there.
In both markets it is important to bear in mind that on top of the store performance our new store openings drive the e-commerce business very significantly.
So if you add in the e-com business that European four wall EBITDA margin will do the same in Asia those margins look relatively more attractive.
And Randy just to follow-up on your question regarding the components of our CapEx for 2015.
The number for DTC and omni-channel is slightly lower just based on the fact that we had most of the cost of the distribution center here in New Albany in 2014 there will be some of the cost that will carry forward into 2015.
But the DTC and the IT spend omni-channel spend is very consistent in those categories alone.
Year-over-year and combined with the remaining distribution center expense it's about 40% of our CapEx budget for the year.
So we continue to prioritize a high percentage of our CapEx spend on that initiative specifically.
As you look at new stores we have about the same spend in new stores with a focus on the growth markets in Asia that Jonathan mentioned earlier.
And then also included in our new store build and CapEx are the 11 outlet stores in the U.S.
that we announced.
There is a higher penetration of CapEx spend in remodels and store conversion and testing.
We're investing in our existing store base as well evidenced by the performance we have seen in the Hollister storefronts that we're rolling out.
We're also testing new formats for improved customer experience so there is a very small piece of capital for those tests as well.
Moving forward on our CapEx budget I think our position has always been to invest in those projects that generate the highest risk-adjusted return.
We maintain a high hurdle for that and have been consistent in our application of that and the projects in which we invest.
I think we continue to see CapEx spend in the range that we have this year -- in the $150 million to $200 million range we're not thinking differently about that moving forward.
And Randy I just want to come back to the first part of your question.
We have very few -- setting aside Australia which we exited or are exiting we also have the Seoul flagship which we impaired this quarter.
Other than those stores we have very few literally a handful or less of international stores that are even close to being negative from a cash flow standpoint.
And we will move on to our next question next is Simeon Siegel Nomura Securities.
Can you talk about segment margins? Let's leave the international side for a second.
You referenced the online investments and the DTC margins compressed but the U.S.
four wall has been showing nice expansion over the past two quarters.
I guess how much of the online compression was FX related how much of the U.S.
improvement was outlet versus profit savings? More broadly how should we think about those segment margins playing out over the next year and beyond? And then just a quick clarification on the commentary behind the cost savings versus the increased investment.
Does that suggest flat OpEx dollars for next year? Thanks.
So Simeon I will take the first part.
With regard to DTC margins for the quarter clearly they did come in somewhat below what we had been referencing earlier in the year.
There was an FX impact in there; I think it was 100 to 120 basis points of DTC margin for the fourth quarter.
Other than that our sales in Europe in the December timeframe were somewhat below what we projected and that was obviously a critical period of time from an overall DTC business standpoint for the quarter.
We think that our shipping and some of our promotional messaging was not as effective as it could have been during that timeframe and that caused our DTC volume to come in somewhat below what we expected.
We're obviously going to work to better that when we lap that next year.
There are also continuing investments which account for some erosion including our configuration to be operative in Asia from an e-com standpoint.
We also continue to invest in online marketing to drive the business on a long-term basis that was the DTC part of the equation.
I think part of the question was on the U.S.
four wall.
Yes on the U.S.
four wall business much of that was driven by our profit improvement initiative.
We definitely leveraged expense better year-over-year.
But we also were able particularly in the fourth quarter to stabilize AUR in the U.S.
and our AUC efforts helped drive some margin improvement and we continue to see those opportunities as we move forward.
At this time we will move on to our next question Kimberly Greenberger Morgan Stanley.
I wanted to ask about e-commerce.
Can you comment with e-commerce still positive in Europe you mentioned there was a large deceleration.
And then Arthur I think you discussed investments you are making in e-commerce including Europe.
Do you think that the investments are sort of just necessary to maintain progress on that platform going forward? Or is there something about the investments that you think could actually cause an inflection in the sales trend there? Thanks.
Let me take the first part Kimberly.
So international DTC comps were down 5 for the quarter as reflected in the press release.
Asia performed relatively well so Europe was down somewhat more than that down 5.
I think as well as some of the headwinds I just referenced we obviously have a significant impact of the logo business in the DTC channel and to some degree that skews more significantly internationally.
So that was certainly weighing on the DTC comp in the fourth quarter.
Kimberly with respect to your question about the investments in e-com they are mutually synergistic with our store efforts and you can't really do one today without doing the other.
There is no question that our position in e-com is an admirable one in terms of the percentage of our business we do today in e-commerce.
But to rest on that particular position is to invite falling behind a competitive set who are moving very quickly in this area.
So we will continue to invest in the people and resources necessary to maintain our leading position in e-com both domestically and internationally.
Our next question will come from Marni Shapiro Retail Tracker.
I guess a couple of quick questions.
Can you just talk about -- you talked about the pricing in Europe and the changes there.
As you have open stores in China and to continue to can you talk about the pricing strategy there? What is the premium there or are you going to roll out the same lower pricing strategy there? And can you also just touch on -- as product begins to improve and you put some muscle behind that improved product in the back -- let's assume back half of the year will you start to increase marketing to support this? Or are you going to keep kind of a tight hold on the marketing spend for the full year? So first as far as the pricing goes we're approaching pricing from a global perspective.
So as we're moving to bring our pricing closer to our U.S.
pricing that will happen across the world.
And as we move towards back to school you will see that in most of our assortments.
As far as the assortment goes and yes as we get the muscle behind it as the year progresses we will make those determinations about marketing as time goes on and we see the customer's acceptance to what we're doing.
Next we move on to Oliver Chen with Cowen and Company.
Regarding the evolution of product and what we're looking for what are your thoughts on women's tops and what kind of detail it may take to evolve that category? And then I had a question about as we look for the changes what is happening with the SKU breadth? Some of the stores we check look like there is quite a wide variety.
I am just curious about where you are feeling about good better best.
And we have noticed some of the fashion product on markdown as well.
And then lastly this is also a predicate question and brand question.
Can you just update us on the differentiation amongst the banners and where your head is with the progress you are making there? Thank you.
So in terms of tops every category has been treated exactly the same way and we're giving a lot of attention to each category and its relevance to trends.
So I don't want to be specific Oliver about the exact changes we're making other than to say that we're spending a lot of time on attention to detail fabric wash and fit and then making sure they are trend relevant.
Each trend relevant garment though will be supported by core classics that the company is known for and it is important we price those competitively in the market.
So that is kind of the overall view of how we're working.
In terms of the SKU breadth sorry Oliver do you mean you feel you are seeing a widening of the breadth? The breadth has widened and then we have also seen product which we thought was good fashion like on markdown.
So I'm just curious about the hit rate especially as you innovate and take on more fashion risk and then also how you are feeling about the state of the breadth or if what we're observing now is indicative of what is going to happen later? Okay so firstly I can tell you that there are lots of new product opportunities.
So in some categories there will be a widening of the breadth to allow for more choice.
In terms of fashion you are right the risk does go up but so do the positive returns and the success if you get it right and that is what we're focused on part of our collection is in the fashion business which means we need to take risks.
The most important thing we need to do is have courage to back the winners we feel are going to be successful.
If we do that then we will succeed.
The third part of the question I missed that actually.
Brand differentiation.
On the brand differentiation question I think our move to a branded organization is one of the best things that we could have done for the Corporation.
The teams have been sitting and their seats for less than -- about six months now.
And as we see them working every day towards the focus on the brands the differentiation becomes clearer and clearer for them.
And the products in time as well will move towards that place.
We're very excited about branded it's going to work in our favor.
Next is Paul Lejuez with Wells Fargo.
It's Tracy Kogan filling in for Paul.
I wanted to ask about traffic versus ticket internationally.
What's been the biggest component of that comp decline and how has it trended this year? And then I just wanted to follow up on something somebody asked about operating expenses.
Were you saying that you expect operating expenses to be flattish next year? I guess maybe if you could give a little more detail there.
Thanks.
I think on the traffic part of the question Tracy the consistent biggest driver of the comp declines in our international stores has been traffic.
And on the operating expense lines yes we expect it to be flat.
We expect the benefits we're seeing from the profit improvement initiative and expense savings to be offset with investments in normalizing our compensation accruals next year primarily and investments in DTC and omni-channel initiatives.
So we're investing in our growth areas which will offset our profit improvement initiative and other productivity savings.
And the only comment to add to that Tracey is that since we haven't guided to comp obviously comp is a significant factor in expense so where that ends up will drive a component of expense year-over-year.
[Operator Instructions].
Next we will hear from Dana Telsey Telsey Advisory Group.
Arthur as you talked about productivity as a way of life what should we be looking for to show the pace of improvement as you go through 2015 and towards 2016? And then Jonathan as you think about the continued expense reduction efforts where are the expense reductions going to be coming from now and do they have the opportunity to be a similar magnitude of what you have achieved in the past? Thank you.
Yes Dana I think we haven't been specific typically on a forward-looking basis and I don't think we're ready to give specific numbers today as to what we think the incremental opportunity is.
I think it is a continuous process going forward where are going to look to be more efficient in how we operate as a company.
I also don't think at this point we can point to specific areas; there are things that we're looking at.
But I think you can just count on it being an ongoing area of focus part of the company's way of life as Arthur referenced earlier on.
Yes and just to recap we have hit $250 million of cumulative savings and we have accomplished a huge amount I think over the past 18 months.
And I think people across the company have done an outstanding job of implementing changes to our model that have enabled us to achieve those savings.
Our next question will come from Richard Jaffe with Stifel.
A follow-on question about expenses and then a quick question on the fragrance business.
As the expenses continue to contract and the business continues to contract how much further to you want to go or do you think you need to go to right size the expense structure for the business as you see it today or as you see it in the near future in terms of dollars or percent of sales? And then in terms of fragrance the distribution and the payment schedule for Abercrombie &amp; Fitch.
So Richard just on the first part I think as we just said we really can't give specifics as to quantum how much further we're going to go.
I think the important point is there is always opportunity to be more efficient and we're going to continue working on a constant basis to find those opportunities and to take cost out of the business and to be more efficient.
But we can't say more than that at this point about specifically where that is going to take us.
I'm not sure I understood the second part of your question Richard.
Can you maybe just elaborate on that? How do you get paid by allowing your name to be used in a fragrance that will be distributed in other channels? Well we get a license fee from our partner as they sell that product.
Next we will take a question from Dorothy Lakner Topeka Capital Markets.
I wondered if you could elaborate a little bit about the outlet opportunity as you continue to build that business.
And just talk a little bit about what the mix of that business is that would be great.
Thank you.
So we did open a number of outlets during 2014 and as we referenced in the prepared remarks we're pleased with the performance of those stores.
They're in some of the newer highly productive outlet malls but even within those malls we're pleased with our performance relative to the mall.
I think we're taking a balanced approach to outlet expansion.
We want to make sure we maintain an appropriate mix and balance between our full price chain stores and our outlet stores.
But we're pleased with how that has unfolded over the past year and we expect to continue expansion in outlet in 2015 particularly in the U.S.
Our next question will come from Betty Chen Mizuho Securities.
I'm sorry if I missed it earlier but it sounds like the new holiday store format is doing well and clearly we're planning to roll that out to more stores in 2015.
Could you quantify what was the difference in the performance of those stores versus the rest of the chain? And then my second question was regarding the customer experience or in-store experience.
What are some changes that we could be looking for at the store level? And if you could give us some examples of whether that includes retraining of the staff etcetera.
Thanks.
I can jump in on the performance of the Hollister storefronts.
We have consistently seen the storefronts drive incremental traffic over the control stores.
So we're seeing double-digit improvements in traffic and mid- to high-single-digit improvement on the sales line which gives us confidence to commit more capital to that effort in 2015.
For the in-store shopping experience Betty we’ve clearly many opportunities to make our experience both easier more friendly.
So we're currently considering all options.
We're out talking to our stores trying to understand what the customers are looking for.
And specifically yes we're looking to retrain our selling associates and that is a work in progress.
If I can just give you some specifics Betty in Abercrombie on store experience.
We're playing around with different variations.
We're changing the content of the music we're looking at different levels of -- at music levels we're looking at the navigation experience as you go through the store we're looking at the darkness we're looking at whether fit rooms should be locked or unlocked.
We're looking at the way we lay the product out whether it should be hanging or flat folded.
So we're leaving no stone unturned.
We will never find the exact experience that we think is right it is going to be an evolving process that we will just get better and better and better at.
Mark Altschwager Robert W Baird is next.
Can you update us on your thoughts on the wholesale opportunity for each brand any takeaways from the test so far? And then separately can you talk a bit more about the store manager incentive plan you referenced earlier? What are the key metrics that the managers will be focused on and how are those different from the prior plan [ph].
Thank you.
I will pick up the wholesale opportunity.
It is very early days.
Clearly the company has two very strong brands that resonate with consumers.
And at some point we want to see if we can leverage the strength of those brands and wholesaling would be one of those opportunities.
We have a few things we're looking at it is not our priority but it is definitely something we're focused on increasing.
On the second part of the question historically our store managers were not incentivized on the performance of the store.
So we're implementing a sales based incentive plan for our store managers going forward.
Our next question will come from Anna Andreeva Oppenheimer.
This is [indiscernible] on for Anna.
We were wondering if you could comment on some of the trends you are seeing quarter to date at the brands and if the ports have affected the product or inventory levels going into spring.
If you could quantify that if there is an impact that would be great.
Thanks.
Yes I will take the first part because we generally don't comment on current quarter trends.
And I'll toss it over to Jonathan for the port update.
Yes on the port impact I think our supply chain teams again have done an outstanding job of managing through that.
We don't believe it is had a material impact on our business or even a significant impact on our business.
Next we will move onto Janet Kloppenburg JJK Research.
Joanne if you could clarify on the expense line if we should we be forecasting MG&amp;A flat in dollars as well in addition to the stores and distribution that would help.
And for Fran and Christos could you talk a little bit more about the tops business? I understand that the logo part of that business is down.
Perhaps you could talk a little bit about any progress you are seeing in the fashion component of the top category.
And if you could help us understand this new very sharp pricing strategy on the basic tees in the stores the must haves and the essentials and if that strategy is resonating with the consumer.
Thank you.
On the MG&amp;A line Janet the way to think about that we do have incremental expense modeled in 2015 related to incentive compensation normalized having normalized accrual rates on incentive compensation.
For the year that is a little over $20 million as a company.
A large portion of that will be in the MG&amp;A line as well as a slight increase in marketing spend as we dedicate more growth to digital marketing.
To answer your featured question let's start with the top piece.
And just to reiterate kind of where we went before each and every category that we currently have we're looking at for opportunity.
There is clearly a big opportunity in tops and we need to strike a balance which brings me to your question on the must haves.
We're looking to do a good better best pricing.
We like to give the consumer an opportunity to enter an opening price point for us.
So we have had very good success to that so far.
And fashion will always be a piece of our business it's a matter of figuring out what percentage that needs to be.
Next our question will come from Rick Patel with Stephens.
Sorry if I missed this but can you provide more insight on the decline in Europe e-commerce sales? I am curious if there are specific countries where things went south or if it was related to certain product strategies or it was a marketing issue.
Just some help there and any color on what you can do differently specific to that channel as we think about 2015.
Sure I think what we said earlier was that to begin with the logo impact that we felt across the business certainly weighed on the e-com business in the fourth quarter and so did the international component of that.
We also said that we felt we left some business on the table in December in Europe where our promotional and shipping messaging was probably not as compelling as it could have been and that is something we will work to rectify as we lap that in 2015.
[Operator Instructions].
We will next hear from Emmanuel Raymond Nomura Asset Management.
It is a bit unusual for the new CFO to report to the old CFO so I was wondering if you could explain the reason for that.
And then secondly you were happy to buy back shares above $40.
And I wondered why you didn't buy back any shares in the fourth quarter when they were much lower.
Well Emmanuel I will speak to your first question.
Jonathan is -- may be the old CFO but he is currently our Chief Operating Officer.
And the structure that we have has him responsible for a wide range of functions inside the company.
So that seems to be working very well.
I will turn the question on the buyback back to Jonathan.
Yes I mean Emmanuel we have always said that we make decisions on buybacks quarter by quarter taking into account both liquidity and valuation.
We don't comment on the specifics of that discussion either in advance or typically after the fact.
So it is what it is as we go quarter-by-quarter through the year.
At this point we will move to our next question John Morris BMO Capital Markets.
Incentive comp -- I think you had mentioned in the prepared remarks looking to change the incentive comp structure at the store level I think among the managers in order to get them more motivated more invested in the business.
So if you could give us a little bit more color there and also to the extent that you had tested that at all and what results you've been seeing from that prior to putting in place? And is that pretty much going in across the board? Yes John it really wasn't a change in the plan.
We've introduced a plan really for the first time that on an ongoing basis will provide incentives for store management based on the performance of their store primarily measured around the sales performance of the store.
So we're doing that on a quarter-by-quarter basis as we go through 2015 which gives us the opportunity to adjust it as we need to make sure it is being effective in achieving that objective.
But we think it is important that the store management has a stake in the performance of their store and that is essentially what we have put in place.
John I would only add that we didn't feel the test was necessary because there was a deep belief that engaging our store management teams and the results of their own units would produce positive energy and tangible results over time.
So we were all in on going forward with the whole company right away.
And that does conclude our question and answer session and that does conclude our conference call for today.
We do thank you for your participation.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Good day and welcome to the Abercrombie &amp; Fitch first quarter fiscal year 2015 earnings call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
We will open the call to take your questions at the end of the presentation.
We ask that you limit yourself to one question during the question-and-answer session.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Brian Logan.
Mr.
Logan please go ahead.
Good morning and welcome to our first quarter earnings call.
Earlier this morning we released our first quarter sales and earnings income statements balance sheet store opening and closing summary and updated financial history.
Please feel free to reference these materials which are available on our website.
Also available on our website is an investor presentation which we will be referring to in our comments during this call.
Today's earnings call is being recorded and the replay may be accessed through the internet at abercrombie.com under the Investor section.
The call is scheduled for one hour.
Joining me today are Arthur Martinez Executive Chairman; Jonathan Ramsden Chief Operating Officer; Joanne Crevoiserat Chief Financial Officer; Fran Horowitz President of Hollister; and Christos Angelides President of ANF and abercrombie kids.
After our prepared remarks we will be available to take your questions for as long as time permits.
Before I begin I remind you that any forward-looking statements we may make today are subject to the Safe Harbor statement found in our SEC filings.
In addition effective for the first quarter we have made a change to our operating segments.
Previously we segmented and reported our business based on channel reporting separate information for U.S.
stores international stores and DTC in conjunction with our transition to our branded organizational structure which was substantially completed in the first quarter.
We have determined our operating segments to now be Abercrombie and Hollister which have been aggregated into one reportable segment.
With that I hand the call over to Arthur for some opening remarks.
Thank you Brian.
Good morning everyone and thank you for being with us.
The past quarter our company continued to take major strides to revitalize our brands enhance performance and position ourselves to resume a solid growth trajectory.
We've made significant changes in every aspect of our business including augmenting our leadership team enhancing organizational strength and efficiency developing merchandising and design processes and optimizing our store fleet by adding stores in high potential markets and continuing to close underperforming stores.
We've also made important investments in high potential areas including the online business.
Importantly we have focused the entire organization on putting the customer at the center of everything we do particularly with regard to the store experience and our merchandise assortments.
We knew it was going to be a tough quarter for a lot of reasons some environmental notably foreign exchange and some specific to our company and most significantly because many of the actions we are taking to improve our business are in the early stages of implementation and so our numbers don't reflect the many initiatives underway to reinvigorate our iconic brands.
But we do see traction in several areas.
Comp sales performance on a sequential basis has shown improvement in a number areas of our business particularly within Hollister.
The new more inviting storefront for Hollister continues to do very well with converted stores still experiencing a high single digit increase in sales and gross margin.
We saw a sequential improvement in Europe in key markets such as the U.
K and France and are also delivering great results in China.
And all of this has been accomplished against the backdrop of significant headwinds for our industry most notably foreign currency translation.
Our comparable sales trend has continued to improve in May increasing our confidence that we will see continued sequential improvement into the second quarter and the back half of the year.
Our turnaround won't be accomplished overnight but we are expecting that the changes will help us stabilize our business this year and lead to meaningful and lasting improvement moving forward.
Now let me hand it over to Jonathan Ramsden our COO to provide a more in-depth update on our strategic initiatives.
Thanks Arthur and good morning everyone.
As Arthur mentioned the first quarter marked some significant steps in our ongoing efforts to turn around our business.
As summarized on page 11 of our investor presentation these changes include a number of elements.
First and foremost putting the customer at the center of everything that we do.
Second defining a clear positioning for our brands in a rapidly changing and highly competitive marketplace.
Third ensuring we are delivering a compelling and differentiated assortment.
Fourth from a channel standpoint ensuring we are appropriately scaled and positioned to optimize our brand reach domestically and internationally.
Fifth ensuring we continue to improve our efficiency pare underperforming assets and reduce expense.
And last ensuring we are organized to succeed.
I'm going to make some comments on specific actions against these initiatives and then Fran and Christos will add more color to their respective brands.
Starting with customer centricity we have made significant changes in our stores during the quarter to create a faster easier and more enjoyable shopping experience.
We have given our store managers greater autonomy but also increased their accountability by implementing a new incentive program.
Regarding omnichannel we have enabled order in store in all U.S.
stores and will have ship from store in place in approximately 70% of U.S.
stores by the end of Q2.
We will extend ship from store to the UK and Canada by the end of the year in addition we will have click and collect in place by the end of the year in the UK a market where this is very important and we'll begin to enable online returns to stores in Europe again starting with the UK.
All of these changes are directed towards creating an easy seamless and satisfying experience for our customers.
With regard to brand positioning and our assortment while there is more to do particularly on long-term positioning a lot of great work has been done over the past few months on assortment planning.
Optimizing the scale and reach of our brands entails the following components: first continuing to make selective international openings in key growth markets of Asia and the Middle East.
During the quarter we opened our second A&amp;F store in Kuwait our third Hollister store in the UAE and our fifth Hollister store in Japan.
We are pleased with the initial volumes of these stores particularly the Hollister store in Dubai which is currently tracking to be one of our highest volume Hollister stores globally.
China also continues to do well for us with double digit comp sales for the quarter including positive comps in all seven Hollister stores and over 300% growth in the Hollister DTC business reflecting an outstanding return on our DTC localization investments.
Second continuing to optimize our footprint in the U.S.
We continue to grow our outlet businesses with the opening of three new A&amp;F outlet stores during the quarter.
U.S.
outlet stores have now generated positive comp sales for the third consecutive quarter and we continue to be pleased with the performance of our new stores particularly MFO (7:37) stores.
On the other side of this equation we expect to continue our domestic store closure program in 2015 and beyond.
Excluding the Ruehl and Gilly Hicks brand closures we have closed over 275 domestic stores in the past few years and have significant flexibility over the next couple of years.
This ties to another important dimension of our U.S.
real estate strategy which is the testing of new store prototypes and sizes.
Our ability to prove out a fresh and compelling new store format at a reasonable capital cost while significantly increasing both productive square footage and unit density has the potential to be a significant value driver.
Third we are moving forward on other opportunities to increase our brand reach including through licensing franchising and wholesaling arrangements.
Earlier this month we opened our first franchise store a Hollister store in Guadalajara Mexico.
While still early we look forward to using franchising selectively to extend the reach of our brands to new locations and markets with minimal capital investment.
After a successful launch of our A&amp;F wholesale and partnership with ASOS we plan to extend that partnership to the Hollister brand in the second quarter.
In addition we plan to expand our A&amp;F wholesaling business with a new partnership in the third quarter.
We also are looking forward to Inter Parfums planned launched to test selling Fierce and Sephora in France and global duty-free locations beginning in the second quarter and to then launch new fragrance products in 2016.
With regard to efficiency during the quarter we launched a continuous profit improvement program which is the evolution of our highly successful profit improvement initiative which generated $250 million in annual savings.
Continuous profit improvement will be at the foundation of how we operate moving forward and these efforts resulted in meaningful savings during the quarter.
We believe there are additional expense reduction and efficiency opportunities moving forward as we leverage strong engagement from associates across the company.
Finally ensuring we are properly organized to succeed is a key part of our strategy.
During the quarter we supplemented the branded teams by hiring several senior level associates with extensive experience in design merchandising and planning that will help lead us into our next phase of growth.
As Arthur said while the first quarter was difficult and the results are not acceptable we do not believe they reflect the potential of our brands going forward as we continue to make significant changes across all areas of our business.
And I'm grateful to all of our associates across the company for their work to effect that change.
With that I'll hand it over to Joanne.
Thanks Jonathan and good morning everyone.
Before I begin I wanted to take a moment to reiterate that effective for the first quarter we have made a change in how we think about our operating segments.
Previously we segmented and reported our business based on channel reporting separate information for U.S.
stores international stores and DTC.
This quarter as we substantially completed our transition to a branded structure with strong accountability to branded results and recognizing the increasing overlap of our channels as a result of omnichannel activity we have determined that our operating segments are now Abercrombie and Hollister.
Given similar economic characteristics across these operating segments we have aggregated them into one reportable segment for external reporting purposes.
Notwithstanding this change we will continue to provide appropriate comments in our calls to help investors understand the evolving dynamics in our business.
And with that I will start with a brief recap of our first quarter results and then provide an update on our outlook for the rest of 2015.
For the quarter net sales were $709 million down 14% from last year.
Changes in foreign currency exchange rates versus a year ago accounted for approximately 560 basis points or $46 million of the sales decline.
Total comp sales were down 8% for the quarter.
By brand comp sales were down 9% for Abercrombie and down 6% for Hollister.
By region comp sales were down 7% in the U.S.
and down 9% in international markets.
Across brands the direct to consumer and omnichannel business grew to approximately 23% of total sales compared to approximately 21% last year.
Year-over-year our international DTC business returned to healthy growth.
While the U.S.
business was slightly negative as we were less promotional during the quarter versus last year.
On a sequential basis Abercrombie comp sales declined slightly in both the U.S.
and international markets.
However Hollister comp sales improved sequentially in both the U.S.
and international markets which included positive comp sales in Asia and broad based sequential improvement in Europe including in the UK By category continued weakness in the tops business driven by reduced logo levels offset continued strength in jeans and dresses during the quarter.
As I mentioned the reduced logo business continue to weigh heavily on our results contributing approximately 7 percentage points to our down 8 percentage points comp for the quarter in line with our expectations coming into the quarter.
Excluding a net pre-tax charge of $27 million the gross profit rate was 61.8% 70 basis points higher than last year on a constant currency basis primarily due to lower average unit cost.
Average unit retail in our U.S.
business continued to stabilize with a slight increase in the quarter while our international AUR declined.
During the quarter we incurred a net pre-tax charge of $27 million related to a write-down of the carrying value of certain inventory.
As we continue to improve our assortment and store experience we made an elective decision during the quarter to accelerate the disposition of some aged inventory that does not reflect our prospective brand positioning.
We believe this will de-clutter the stores reduce clearance inventory penetration in our stores and result in an overall increase in productivity.
Excluding net pre-tax charges of $11 million this year and $16 million last year adjusted non-GAAP operating expense for the quarter was $493 million down $38 million as a result of benefits from the effects of foreign exchange rates as well as further expense reduction efforts identified during the quarter and the realization of expense savings on lower sales.
I'd like to take a moment to run down the pre-tax charges excluded from operating expense for the quarter which are detailed on page four of our investor presentation.
These include asset impairment and accelerated depreciation charges of $6 million related to a decision to discontinue the use of certain fixtures from Abercrombie and Hollister stores to improve the customer in-store experience.
And to further fair value adjustment of $2 million related to the company owned aircraft currently held for sale.
These also include lease termination and store closure costs of $3 million related to the accelerated exit of our two Hollister stores in Australia and severance charges of $2 million related to our profit improvement initiatives.
In addition we recognized the benefit of $2 million from the restructuring of the Gilly Hicks brand related to a favorable settlement of previously estimated lease termination costs.
On an adjusted non-GAAP basis stores and distribution expense for the quarter was $387 million down $30 million from last year and benefited from the effects of FX as well as further expense reduction efforts identified during the quarter and the realization of expense savings on the lower sales.
On an adjusted non-GAAP basis marketing general and administrative expenses for the quarter were $105.8 million (15:34) down $9 million from last year primarily due to savings associated with the expense reduction efforts during the quarter.
On an adjusted non-GAAP basis the operating loss for the quarter was $52 million compared to $16 million last year and included adverse effects from FX of approximately $13 million.
The tax rate for the quarter excluding the effects of charges was 34.8%.
For the quarter the company reported adjusted non-GAAP net loss per diluted share of $0.53 compared to an adjusted non-GAAP net loss per diluted share of $0.17 last year and included the adverse effect from FX of approximately $0.13.
Turning to the balance sheet we ended the quarter with $383 million in cash and cash equivalents and gross borrowings outstanding of $299 million.
We also ended the quarter with total inventory at cost down 9% versus last year which included the impact of the inventory write-down.
We continue to expect improvement in inventory management and productivity as we move forward.
Details of our store openings for the quarter are included on page 10 of the investor presentation.
At the end of the quarter we operated 789 stores in the U.S.
and 173 stores in Canada Europe Asia Australia and the Middle East.
Moving to the rest of 2015 we are updating our outlook on elements of our performance for the year.
We continue to expect foreign currency exchange rates to be a significant headwind to our results in 2015.
With regard to comp sales we expect to see continued sequential improvement into the second quarter and the back half of the year.
This includes a meaningful impact from logo product as we lap the significant declines of last year.
In addition we are encouraged by improvement in our comp sales trend in May.
Although it's important to note that the majority of the buy-in for the quarter is still ahead of us.
We continue to expect the gross margin rate to be flat to slightly up for 2015 driven by AUC reductions partially offset by adverse currency effects.
With regard to operating expense excluding the effects from changes in comp sales we now expect the year-over-year reduction of proximately $40 million primarily as a result of additional expense savings identified.
In addition we would expect to appropriately manage expense with fluctuations in comp sales.
Excluded from our full year outlook are charges incurred during the quarter as well as other potential future charges related to impairment and store closing charges and other potential charges related to our restructuring efforts.
Over time we expect the sustainable tax rate to return to the mid to upper 30%s as profitability recovers within the jurisdictions in which we operate.
However for 2015 the tax rate is expected to be elevated and remains highly sensitive to the earnings mix by jurisdiction particularly at lower levels of profitability.
In addition we are continuing to project weighted average share count of approximately 70 million shares excluding the effect of potential share buybacks.
2015 capital expenditures are still targeted at around $150 million this includes new stores store remodels and refreshes including the continued rollout of the new Hollister storefront.
In addition this includes testing new store prototypes and improvements inside the store to deliver an improved customer experience and stronger productivity.
This also includes the recently completed DC conversion to a dedicated direct-to-consumer facility as well as other DTC and IT investments to support growth initiatives.
With regard to real estate plans for the year we plan to open 17 full priced stores in key international growth markets of China Japan and the Middle East.
And five full priced stores in North America.
We also plan to open nine new outlet stores in the U.S.
in addition we expect to close approximately 60 stores in the U.S.
during 2015 through natural lease expirations.
I will now hand it over to Fran who will provide more color around the strategic initiatives occurring within the Hollister brand.
Fran? Hollister Co.
California LLC</strong> Thank you Joanna and good morning everyone.
First I would like to thank the entire global Hollister team for their hard work over the past quarter.
I'm grateful for your urgency openness and willingness to drive significant change in our brand.
As we look at the first quarter business remained challenging as we delivered a 6% comp decline.
While the comp remained negative we were encouraged by the sequential improvement from the last two quarters especially in light of a reduced promotional stance in the U.S.
business.
We significantly reduced our reliance on percent off entire store messaging and as the quarter progressed we increasingly sold more merchandise at ticket versus a year ago.
In the U.S.
we were most encouraged by the stabilization of our girls business.
As we moved past the clearance selling period early in the quarter we saw improvement in the girls top categories with each update.
Our guys business performed consistent with the Q4 trend with the comp challenged by our reduced promotional stance.
In Europe we saw sequential improvement driven primarily by the UK and France and in Asia our China business was very strong.
As Jonathan mentioned we have made many changes over the past several months as part of our efforts to improve the performance of the Hollister business.
First we have made significant progress to ensure we have the people and organizational structure to set us up for success.
We reorganized our product-facing team into a structure that will enable us to build regional tailored assortments that will be adjusted based on consumer preference.
In addition I have made several senior level hires and internal appointments across our customer facing functions to help lead those teams.
Second we have made significant progress during our last two product review cycles to ensure we have the right process in place to develop review and buy our assortments.
We have plenty of opportunity to improve our merchandise assortment and I'm confident that we will see incremental improvement with each floor set going forward.
Third we are shifting our focus to a more customer centric experience and we see this evolution taking place in several key areas; in-store experience and pricing and promotion.
With regard to pricing and promotions we must simplify the customer's shopping experience and appropriately position our brand to compete in each region.
As you know based on our UK price test results we rolled out the adjusted pricing to remain in the UK stores with our spring break floor set and have seen continued sequential comp improvements.
We plan to roll out updated pricing to the rest of the world in conjunction with the back-to-school floor set.
In the U.S.
we will continue to moderate our promotional activity to provide a simpler shopping experience and clarity to our customer around our quality and value proposition.
With regard to in-store experience we have made meaningful progress over the past couple of months.
First we removed some of the in-store props and fixtures that will not be a part of the future Hollister experience.
Second we continue to roll out the updated Hollister store front around the world.
But in addition we are in the process of developing and testing options for our future in-store prototype and we are excited to have opened our first Hollister store with our future in-store prototype with a fully redesigned and refixtured interior at the Polaris Mall here in Columbus.
The new prototype allows for more space and flexibility between genders and with increased visibility brighter color themes and better layout customers will have an easier shopping experience.
We are pleased by the initial customer reaction and will be converting four additional stores over the coming weeks.
Finally we are creating greater ownership and accountability within our store management team through new incentives and training programs.
With regard to brand experience we continue to improve our understanding of our customer and we look to define the modern Hollister.
With a better understanding of our customer we will refine our marketing approach to represent our brand position rooted in the Southern California lifestyle and engage our customer on their terms using channels they deem most relevant.
Clearly we have had significant amount of change happening in our brands.
That said I am confident that we are focused on the initiatives that will turn around our performance and capitalize on the strength and global reach for the Hollister brand.
I will now hand it over to Christos.
Thank you Fran.
The first quarter was challenging for the Abercrombie and Fitch brands delivering a combined minus 9% comparable sales results reflecting a slight sequential decline in comparable sales from the prior quarter.
While we have some wins for the quarter the tops business still remained weak as a result of both continued logo handlings and a real lack of differentiation between the new spring season and the fall season carryover product.
I'm well aware of the challenges we face but we really do believe that we're focused on the right things as part of our efforts to improve the trend of the Abercrombie business.
This focus includes one having the right organizational structure in place to create better product.
To that end I have supplemented the talented team here by hiring three general managers with strong industry experience for the men's women's and kids businesses.
The new GMs will have direct oversight in design merchandising inventory management and planning functions.
Two reestablishing the vision for the brand with a focus on being the best at design whether that being our heritage homeland of preppy or military styling authentic denim or pretty lace or in chasing the latest trends.
We've also been improving quality levels in terms of fabrications washes embellishments styling and the fit of our clothes and the sizes we offer.
In addition we've made progress in evolving the buying inventory management processes to ensure that we are offering a well balanced assortment by channel across fashion classics and also logo.
Three focusing on making the customer shopping experience clearer and more convenient both in store and on DTC by enabling customers to more easily see touch and select our clothing.
We've adjusted the in-store experience by removing a number of forms and props to improve navigation around the store.
We've adjusted presentation methods to increase the amount of hanging product versus folded and also to better showcase our newest details colors and silhouettes.
We've also made adjustments to the music scent and lighting levels in the store.
We are in the process of identifying a new store layout and plan to have this first prototype opened this fall.
On DTC all product is now photographed on body and not flat so that customers can imagine the real silhouette and the fit of the garment.
Moreover we've implemented programs to help store managers take on a more customer-centric business-driven approach through our previously announced store incentive programs.
We've also continued to enhance our store training to ensure that our managers and brand representatives will have the tools necessary to drive their business manage expense and improve the overall productivity of their store.
My focus is on creating a consistent compelling brand experience across stores DTC and marketing channels that resonate with the modern Abercrombie &amp; Fitch customer and extends our reach to a broader target market.
We do have a considerable amount of work ahead of us but I'm really encouraged by the change that we made and I believe the strategies will be significant in building on the rich heritage of the Abercrombie &amp; Fitch brand.
Before I conclude I would like to thank the Abercrombie &amp; Fitch teams for their contribution commitment and positive approach to all of the changes that are currently taking place.
With that I'll hand it back to Arthur for some closing remarks.
Thanks Christos.
Hopefully all of you now have a much stronger sense of the profound changes that are taking place within our company.
It's important to note that our company ran as a singular business model for two decades.
That model became less relevant in a changed marketplace with new customer expectations.
There is great potential in front of us and there is a great amount of work being done throughout the organization to realize that potential and I and the board continue to be confident that the changes taking place will allow us to realize the full value of our brands.
We're fortunate to have a team of very very talented executives who you've heard from today leading the charge on these initiatives.
A new CEO will be appointed at an appropriate time to continue this work and the board is deeply engaged in that process.
This now concludes our prepared comments.
We'll be happy to take your questions.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our first question today will come from Randy Konik with Jefferies.
A lot going on glad to see it.
So a couple things.
Just I guess on the – if you look at the international business versus the U.S.
business some different things going on it looks like you are saying that the international – it almost feels like the international traffic is inflecting because the AUR is still down recognizing I think you're saying the price point is probably a little too high there so you're bringing them down and you are seeing that corresponding traffic improvement.
Then in the United States you are seeing AUR stability or – AUR stability but the traffic is still down.
Maybe kind of give us some perspective on where you're seeing the progress points in the two different regions of the business? And then I guess I just wanted to ask lastly when you look at the CapEx breakdown it's kind of almost reversed on its head now where the new stores' CapEx is only about 20% of total CapEx and you have these store enhancements and IT and DTC accounting for about 80%.
If we look out a couple years from now if you assume that the new store CapEx will remain very low when do we end the store enhancement kind of CapEx? Kind of where are we in the Hollister reformats? And then when do we kind of come down on the IT DTC CapEx? Meaning can't get a sense of what is the maintenance or normalized level of CapEx in the business on a long-term business.
Thanks.
Hey Randy.
So Joanne is going to comment on the first piece and I'll take the second part of your question.
Yeah Randy on the international business versus U.S.
we have seen for the second quarter and are encouraged by the stabilization in AUR in the U.S.
business.
The AUR in the international business was down in the quarter pressured by FX primarily but also with the price investments that we've made internationally.
Again those price investments we expect to drive conversion which we have seen and that was the driver of the sequential improvement in the international business for the quarter.
On the CapEx part Randy yeah I think there's a lot of moving parts as you alluded to in the earlier part of your question.
We do expect to continue to open new stores in the key growth markets we called out.
I think one of the biggest questions we're working through is new store prototypes of both A&amp;F and Hollister.
And as we prove those out it's to be determined how much reinvestment there would be in the existing fleet to convert stores to a new more productive easier shoppable store format.
So that's still I think open at this point.
And then the IT and DTC we continue to expect to invest in DTC.
That's been a very productive high return investment for us over the past few years.
So do you think the CapEx levels will get – could get down to a more normalized rate around $100 million or so? And then just following up do you know when do we lap the logo stuff? And then lastly you mentioned on real estate closures you have a lot of flexibility.
Where are we in the flexibility cycle or how many more stores are up for renewal – lease renewal over the next let's say 24 months? Thanks.
Sorry.
Hey Randy I'll take parts one and three and then go to Joanne for part two.
So the CapEx level no I don't think we're ready to say it's going to come down to a lower run rate of $100 million.
I think we've said in the past that we think $150 million is a reasonable run rate but that is obviously a function of the returns we're seeing on different investments over time.
And then real estate closures we said in the past that we have very significant flexibility domestically over the next couple of years with a very high proportion of our U.S.
leases up for renewal between now and the end of fiscal 2017.
So essentially over the next two and a half years.
So as we test these different prototypes and as we see how productivity changes in the existing stores over the next year or so we have a lot of flexibility to make changes on that front.
I'll go to Joanne on logo.
Yes on the logo piece Randy we expected that the logo headwinds would start to abate in the first quarter.
They represented 7 points of headwind to comp on our down 8 point comp for the first quarter.
We expect that to continue to abate in the second quarter and then neutralize in the back half of the year when we will have lapped the significant declines from a year ago.
And we'll move to our next question.
Once again as a reminder please limit yourself to one question.
Next we'll hear from Matthew Boss JPMorgan.
Oh hi it's Christina Brathwaite on for Matt.
Thanks for taking our question.
Can you just dive a little bit into the profitability by segment? You kind of excluded that a little bit from the presentation.
In particular just given the price decreases on Hollister International can you just talk about international profitability and what you can see there longer-term? Yes I will pick that one up Christina.
This is Joanne.
The selling margin rates internationally declined related to the price decreases as well as the impact of the foreign currency fluctuations we saw in the quarter.
With the stability in the AUR in the U.S.
business the selling margin rate and with the averaging of costs coming down across all markets we're seeing those selling margin rates come closer together.
So improvement in the U.S.
market and declines in the international markets.
But again we believe the investments and we have been seeing the investments both in tests as well as in the first quarter in price internationally drive improvement in the top line and through the test improvement in gross margin dollars in international markets.
Okay.
Thanks.
Next we will hear from Ed Yruma KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi good morning.
Thanks for taking my question and thanks for all the discussion.
Can you talk a little bit about AUC? I know you called that out as a bright spot in the quarter.
Kind of what are you doing to improve that and kind of how should we think about AUC longer-term? Thank you.
Yes from an AUC perspective we continue to see AUC improvement as we expected in the mid single digits for the first quarter.
We do expect AUC to continue to be down in 2015 and is really the driver of our ability to deliver flat to slightly improved margin rate this year.
Longer term AUC management will really be directed by the product development and the assortment changes that we're making.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks so much.
Next we'll take a question from Susan Anderson FBR Capital Markets.
Good morning.
Good job on the sequential improvement in the comp.
I was wondering if you could maybe elaborate on merchandise or pricing architecture strategies for back to school.
How should we expect maybe the merchandise or assortment to evolve and then maybe also if you could kind of talk about just a plan to kind of change the brand perception with the consumer of both brands particularly in the U.S.
and start to drive more traffic back into the stores.
Thanks.
Okay Susan so I think we're going to go to Fran for at least the first part of that question.
Hollister Co.
California LLC</span></strong> Hi Susan.
Hi.
Hollister Co.
California LLC</span></strong> As we move into back to school from an assortment architecture perspective we have worked on a much more balanced assortment.
So you will see an assortment that has fashion logo and core well positioned relative to what the customers' interests are.
We've also worked through pricing.
We will have – we will continue with our must haves and our entry level price point and we will increase the prices up from there measuring off the good better and best architecture.
The evolution of the assortment I think is the second part of your question.
We are seeing continued customer acceptance for our product which is giving the teams confidence in moving forward in how they're assorting the line.
In terms of customer perception we are very clear that that will only change once we improve the product lines and the product assortment.
So that is where our total effort is focused.
Susan this is Arthur.
Regarding the second part of your question on brand positioning a couple of things.
Number one we've actually in the last few days seen some syndicated research that shows both brands have stabilized very nicely in the preference scale of our target customer.
So certainly any decline has been arrested.
The question is now how to restore them to a higher level of esteem in the minds of our customers.
We have some work underway to help us think that through.
It's not ready for prime time yet to be shown or discussed openly.
But over the next couple or three months I think you will begin to see some elements of that come to light.
Got it.
That's very helpful guys.
Good luck next quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And next is Anna Andreeva with Oppenheimer.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Great.
Thanks so much.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> I was hoping if you follow up on May improvement.
Is that being seen across Hollister and A&amp;F and domestically and internationally? And also we noticed you haven't bought back stock in the past couple quarters I believe.
Just maybe talk about what are the board's views on a share buyback and just how much cash cushion do you need to see on the balance sheet? Thanks.
Maybe I'll start with the May piece.
Yeah we said we saw a sequential improvement into May.
We didn't – yeah we haven't passed on anything.
I don't think we're going to get into more details.
There's also the caveat there too that we're still very early in the quarter.
In terms of stock repurchase.
You're right obviously we didn't make any repurchases during the quarter.
We continue to evaluate that through our usual filters of looking at liquidity and long term value at any given point in time and that's a decision we make quarter by quarter as we go through the year.
And I missed the third part of the question.
From a capital allocation standpoint we still look to invest back into the business through CapEx on projects that required risk adjusted returns and also look to return cash to shareholders through dividend and share repurchase programs.
At this time we will move to our next question.
Kimberly Greenberger Morgan Stanley.
Great.
Thank you.
Good morning.
My question is on cost of goods sold but I did just want to clarify the comments around May.
Can we assume that the improvement in May is against the most difficult comparisons of Q2? Just let us know if that is not a good assumption.
And then Joanne my questions on cost of goods sold.
I am not sure I totally understand the rationale for excluding the $27 million inventory write down.
It sounds like you're deciding not to move forward with selling those goods.
But that sounds sort of like a normal course of business and ought to flow through normal cost of goods sold.
So maybe if you can just add some color around that.
Thank you.
Yes I don't believe May was the lowest comp of the quarter but we don't – we just have quarterly results that we've reported externally.
So I can't really comment on that piece.
In terms of cost of goods sold we excluded that because this is a unique decision that we made to remove these goods this aged inventory from our business from our stores.
It is important to note that we are not buying back into these goods.
So it is a reduction in the overall level of ownership of clearance and penetration of clearance in our stores.
So we expect that this is a one-time move down in the level of penetration of clearance taking that really accelerating the sell through and the disposition of those goods.
Again we don't plan to buy back into it.
We plan to maintain lower inventory levels moving forward.
I think it's important to add to that also that it was an elective decision.
It wasn't something that we had to do.
We were selling the inventory but we wanted to clean up the stores and not have low AUR clearance competing with our new assortment as we grow in confidence that our new assortment is going to be stronger than where we've been.
Our next question will come from Paul Alexander BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Hi.
Thank you for taking the question.
Jonathan you mentioned earlier in the call that in the last few months you've done a lot of work on assortment planning.
Is that related to this disposition of aged inventory? Or the company has historically had difficulty buying the right levels of inventory and fashion.
Is this progress and planning more about that and the correct distortion of fashion to core? Thank you.
Yes they're definitely related.
I think – I know Christos can elaborate a little bit on what we're doing in the assortment planning area and did a little bit in their prepared comments.
But yes it's tied to both.
The better assortment we think we have coming in tied to discipline generally around buying going forward and generally moving to a place where we think we have a stronger assortment and not wanting to have that diluted by having aged inventory that's still clearing through but a relatively low AURs.
In terms of assortment planning our focus really is on offering more variety to customers through several avenues through pricing architecture through trends and color analysis and also through fabrication and the fit of the product.
Rather than just offering a one dimensional collection we're looking at offering several dimensions within that collection.
Thank you.
Barbara Wyckoff CLSA is next.
Oh hi everybody.
Can you hear me? Hi Barbara.
Yes.
Hi.
This question is for Christos and Fran.
In the past we have heard about speed to market testing initiatives.
You talked about the impact of implementation of these processes holding fabric testing and then chasing goods.
Where are you on this process? Well we do have processes in place here at both Abercrombie and Hollister to hold fabric to hold open to buy in terms of dollars and to speed up the process at the last minute to chasing products as quickly as possible.
We have set criteria in terms of which product areas that impact is on.
So some product areas are obviously quicker than others.
So we have a process.
Our key focus though is getting the product right first time and that's where we're really concentrating our efforts.
Right.
Hollister Co.
California LLC</span></strong> Just to underscore too.
I think we discussed last time.
We have the ability to be fast but what we have worked on considerably over the past quarter is making the decisions quicker.
That has helped our process considerably.
Great.
Thank you.
Oliver Chen Cowen &amp; Company is next.
Hi thank you.
In our checks we have noticed your assortment with the Essentials program.
And I am just curious about how you are feeling about that balance.
And then on the denim side what we've observed is a real consumer interest in fabric treatments.
How long will that take? My inclination is that the fabric innovation itself is a longer process.
Our last question was just about how you're feeling about the differentiation between your banners and where you are with regards to the marketplace feeling about consumer reception on differentiation.
Okay.
So on Essentials we're very pleased with the performance of Essentials but we think there's more work to be done both in improving the quality levels and the variety of Essentials we offer.
I think there's opportunity to increase the AUR in that particular section as well.
In terms of denim there is a lot of development work and innovation going on in denim and it does take a little bit longer I have to confess but that's – the length of time is far outweighed by the benefits that we're getting by these new fabrications and there are really some interesting techniques coming through.
In terms of differences between the brand well Fran and I both really focused on our own brands and the segment in which we're operating.
Obviously now that we're a branded organization we feel that's really going to drive the difference between the two.
We've got a very clear view on our brand positioning which we can't really elaborate on at the moment but that will evolve over the course of the year.
Hollister Co.
California LLC</span></strong> And then just to underscore in Hollister as well we are also very pleased with our Essentials.
As far as our pricing architecture goes it's very very well received by our customer as nice entry into the brand.
The differentiation between the brands we just celebrated our first year of being separated and you will see the handwriting continue to develop amongst both brands as we continue to move forward.
Okay and we have noticed this nice agility in the changes you have been making from fixturing to color to the composition of the assortment.
But how do you talk to us when you zoom out about the customer and kind of moving the customer to your vision and kind of retaining customer and taking on the new customer as you embrace different brand details as well as assortment planning and actually store experience kind of changes? I'm just curious about your thoughts on striking the balance.
My view firstly is we don't – we're not trying to move- I'm not trying to move the customer.
I'm trying to follow the customer.
I work for them.
They don't work for me.
And in terms of these three buckets I guess we're trying to continue to cater to the existing customers; we want to appeal to previous customers that have lapsed; and we want to attract new customers.
They're all three different approaches and we have a plan for each of those.
Once again as a reminder we ask that you limit yourself to one question at a time.
Lindsay Drucker Mann with Goldman Sachs has our next question.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
I was hoping maybe we could dig into the pricing strategy in Europe and in the UK.
Can you just give some details on what region how many stores you took pricing down for Hollister the magnitude of reductions and whether you've rolled that out to other stores in Europe and kind of what the plan of attack is there? I can kick it off Lindsay if Fran wants to add any color I'd welcome that at the end.
But our pricing test occurred in the UK specifically and a couple of other smaller tests around Europe in the fourth quarter.
Leading into the first quarter we had taken price down in the UK.
We saw and were pleased with the results both on sales as well as the absolute gross margin dollar lift and with the spring break floor set we took price down throughout the UK.
So for the first quarter it was mainly UK directed strategy.
We did see some sequential improvement in the business in the trend of the business in the UK so we continue to be encouraged and our plan for rolling out is to more broadly roll it out globally with the back to school floor set.
Great.
And then maybe just a couple housekeeping ones.
Number one based on your hedges and spot rates can you tell us the per share impact you expect for currency on fiscal 2015? And then secondly can you give us the specific buckets where the new cost savings the $40 million I guess or the other new cost savings that you identified are coming from? Thanks.
Yeah we articulated in our last call the impact of foreign currency.
And interestingly as we sit at the end of the first quarter those numbers haven't changed a lot.
The currency has moved around a bit but we sort of landed at the end of the first quarter basically where we were at the end of the fourth quarter in that we still expect foreign currency to be a headwind.
Restating 2014 based on current spot rates at the end of the quarter would have resulted in a $60 million reduction in operating margin for the year.
So that number is still approximately right.
So that is how it tumbles through our P&amp;L.
In terms of the cost savings initiatives for the year that were identified in the first quarter they're really broad based.
Some of them in the stores buckets but also in the home office so.
And as we continue to focus on driving efficiency and productivity every day as a way of life in the company we expect there's more efficiency to find.
But again no big buckets in one specific area I think it will be broad based.
Our next question will come from Janet Kloppenburg JJK Research.
Good morning everyone.
Joanne I had one question on the operating expense savings of $40 million.
I assume that is a full year number.
And as I calculate it between store operating and G&amp;A your costs were down about – you saved about $39 million in the quarter.
So does that mean that the rest of the outlook for the rest of the year depends on comp store trends i.e.
are most of the cost savings behind us or could you help me with that? And then on the knit product for both Christos and Fran it sounds like some of your underlying trends in knits are improving the Essentials performing etc.
So once we anniversary logo business could we start to see an improvement? Should it just be a natural mathematical uptick that we should enjoy in the knit category? Thank you.
So I'll start with the OpEx part of the question Janet.
As you recall in the last call we expected the benefits from foreign currency exchange rates on operating expense to be roughly offset by investments we were making in other parts of the business.
Again foreign currency exchange rates haven't changed.
That picture hasn't changed.
So the benefit expected for the year in foreign currency exchange rates remains the same.
However we have identified more savings during the quarter that will tumble through the year.
So the $40 million is incremental to what we expected at the end of last quarter.
The timing of when that flows varies during the year and the majority – I would say the majority of the savings for the first quarter was related to the benefits from foreign currency exchange rates.
However some of the offsetting expenses happen later in the year.
So the $40 million is an incremental save from where we were last quarter.
In terms of the anniversary of the logo and the maths I really wish it was just a mathematical equation that would solve it but unfortunately it isn't.
We are going to have to rely on the extra design content that we've put into the new logo product.
And we've got confidence that we've done the right thing there.
And hopefully we bought the right quantities.
So it's the mix of those two equations that will give us the right mathematical result.
Hollister Co.
California LLC</span></strong> Clearly Janet our turnaround will be led by product.
We are very encouraged by what we're seeing in that category and some other categories.
Our full price selling continues to increase.
Our sell through rate continues to increase at regular price particularly we mentioned earlier in the girls tops business.
We've made significant improvements in our comps.
So we are encouraged by what we're seeing.
Brian Tunick with Royal Bank of Canada has a question.
Yes thanks very much.
Good morning.
I'm curious maybe Joanne you could talk on the gross margin guidance of flat to up slightly for the year.
Can you maybe elaborate on your assumptions on inventory planning into the back half? I guess as you say comps are going to accelerate.
And also merchandise margins in Europe versus the U.S.
how should we think about that as you change your pricing architecture in Europe? And then maybe for the brand presidents to talk about supply chain and lead times just a benchmark.
Maybe you guys could talk about where are we now on your lead times and how often you're flowing product into the stores and where you think we'll be a year from now? Thanks very much.
Okay Brian on the first part of your question gross margin guidance reflects lower average unit costs that we've seen this quarter and expect to continue during the year.
We do expect the average unit retail in Europe specifically and international markets to be pressured by exchange rates as well as the price investments that we've made.
But we do see stabilization and have seen stabilization in the U.S.
AURs which I think implies that the U.S.
margin rates – selling margin rates would expand and the international margin rates would contract a bit this year.
On supply chain I can't give you too much detail at this point actually other than it is something we're focused on.
It's something that needs further evaluation.
And there are some real strengths but there are also some opportunities that we want to evaluate over the coming months.
Next we will turn to Dana Telsey Telsey Advisory Group.
Hi this is Melissa Calandruccio on for Dana.
Our question is just in terms of the opportunity you see adding A&amp;F product to other multi-brand channels such as ASOS and Sephora just any color there on sort of the sales and margin opportunity that there might be.
Thank you.
Yeah.
Hey Melissa this is Jonathan.
I'll take that one.
I think it's early days on these initiatives.
We just started testing wholesaling in the fourth quarter of last year with ASOS.
We're pleased with what we've seen so far.
We're going to expand that over the course of 2015 including into Hollister but I think it's too earlier to say what the long-term potential is.
But obviously that's accretive to EBIT as we roll that out.
Or at least that's our expectation.
On the licensing side which is really where the fragrance comes in through Sephora that's pursuant to the deal we announced late last year with Inter Parfums where they're going to be distributing Fierce through third party channels such as duty-free and through Sephora and so on.
Again we haven't started that yet so it's too early to say what we think the potential of that is.
But again we would expect that to be incremental.
There's very limited investment on our side.
And then as part of that arrangement Inter Parfums also developing entirely new products to sell through those channels as well as potentially through our stores over time.
So again too early to say but we think both of those are very interesting opportunities going forward.
We'll take our final question today from Marni Shapiro of The Retail Tracker.
Hey guys.
Hello.
I'm just curious if we can talk a little bit about China because you have quite a number of stores there and it sounds like the business is still fairly healthy there.
Does that customer differentiate between the two brands Hollister and Abercrombie the way we do here that whole East Coast/West Coast situation? And if they do is there an opportunity eventually to bring Hollister there or really Abercrombie will be the brand to bring there? So Marni we only have two A&amp;F stores in China.
Most of our stores are Hollister.
And the A&amp;F flagship store in Shanghai only opened just over a year ago.
And then the second store in Chengdu only opened last summer.
So A&amp;F is relatively new and it's much less prevalent than Hollister currently.
We obviously have a very healthy eComm business in both brands.
So I think it's early days for us still in China frankly.
We think it's a significant opportunity both from a store standpoint still but also have an eComm standpoint.
Where as we alluded to earlier in the prepared remarks we've seen very strong growth particularly in Hollister but also in A&amp;F since we went live with our localization late in 2014.
And that will conclude our question-and-answer session today.
Also that will conclude today's conference call.
We thank you for your participation today.
Please stand by.
Good day and welcome to the Abercrombie &amp; Fitch Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2015 Earnings Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
We will open the call to take your questions at the end of the presentation.
We ask that you limit yourself to one question during the question-and-answer session.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Brian Logan.
Mr.
Logan please go ahead.
Good morning and welcome to our second quarter earnings call.
Earlier this morning we released our second quarter sales and earnings income statements balance sheet store opening and closing summary and an updated financial history.
Please feel free to reference these materials which are available on our website.
Also available on our website is an investor presentation which we will be referring to in our comments during this call.
Today's earnings call is being recorded and the replay may be accessed through the Internet at abercrombie.com under the Investors section.
The call is scheduled for one hour.
Joining me today are Arthur Martinez Executive Chairman; Jonathan Ramsden Chief Operating Officer; Joanne Crevoiserat Chief Financial Officer; Fran Horowitz Brand President of Hollister; and Christos Angelides Brand President of A&amp;F and abercrombie kids.
After our prepared remarks we will be available to take your questions for as long as time permits.
Before I begin I remind you that any forward-looking statements we may make today are subject to the Safe Harbor statement found in our SEC filings.
With that I hand the call over to Arthur for some opening remarks.
Thank you Brian and good morning everyone.
And thank you for being with us this morning.
In our last earnings call we indicated that we expected meaningful sequential improvement in comp sales performance accompanied by stabilized gross margins and continued expense reductions.
The results we are announcing this morning exceeded those expectations.
Our comp sales trend improvements reflect an intense focus on the customer experience driven by a newly-energized and empowered stores organization as well as investments in direct-to-consumer and omnichannel capabilities.
While these results encourage us that we're on the right track we recognize that we still have much to achieve.
And so we continue to take important steps to improve near-term performance and lay the foundation for long-term growth and profitability.
Our brand design and merchandising teams have been reinvigorated by a number of newly-recruited executives with excellent backgrounds relevant to our needs.
You may have seen our recent announcements regarding some of these additions for the A&amp;F brand.
We are also maintaining an intense focus on productivity improvements to build on the progress we have made in reducing expenses over the past several quarters.
Both Hollister and abercrombie kids showed very good progress in the most recent quarter and we believe that these improving trends are sustainable.
For the Abercrombie &amp; Fitch brand our initiatives are well underway and we expect improvement in our performance.
Turnarounds however are never linear and we are not naïve about the challenges we face but are determined to return to prosperity and growth.
And we are confident that we are taking the right steps to achieve that.
An important part of our longer term planning and thinking is the establishment of very clear brand positioning that will guide all elements of our business.
That work is also underway and we will have much more to say about that as we go forward.
In the meantime we are encouraged by many indicators that we are on the right track in restoring the business to health.
Now let me hand it over to Jonathan to provide a more in-depth update on our strategic initiatives.
Thanks Arthur and good morning everyone.
As Arthur said our results for the quarter were ahead of our expectations coming into the quarter and reflect continued sequential improvement.
While that is the case many of our strategies are still in their early stages and we see significant upside as we continue to execute against these strategies.
As a reminder our core strategies include first putting the customer at the center of everything we do.
Second defining a clear positioning for our brands rooted in the clear sense of brand and corporate purpose.
And third delivering a compelling and differentiated assortment.
Fourth leveraging the global reach of our brands and optimizing our performance in each channel.
Fifth continuing to improve our efficiency and reduce expense.
And last ensuring we are organized to succeed.
Many of the specific actions against these initiatives are consistent with what we've laid out in prior calls but I want to mention a few highlights for the quarter.
First our five fully remodeled Hollister stores which feature a newly redesigned interior prototype with an open floor plan new fixtures lighter paint colors and brighter lighting are performing well.
These five stores are up strongly versus the control group and the customer reaction to the new format has been very positive.
We will convert another eight stores this year and anticipate a more extensive rollout next year.
In addition approximately 100 Hollister stores have now been converted to the new store front and are generating a mid- to high-single-digit lift in sales.
Second turning to digital we launched our first A&amp;F Android mobile app during the second quarter and we'll launch a redesigned iOS mobile app in the fourth quarter.
For Hollister we launched redesigned iOS and Android app with Club Cali integration in the third quarter.
Mobile remains a major area of focus for us now accounting for over 50% of our online traffic and with conversion growing strongly.
With regard to omnichannel we are currently piloting reserve-in-store in six states and expect to roll out order-in-store and click-and-collect to the UK going forward.
In addition we expect to roll out various enhancements that will enable web-like search capabilities for order-in-store and increase SKU availability and fulfillment efficiencies to ship-from-store.
Third with regard to (06:25) despite the current macroeconomic uncertainty our performance in China for the quarter was strong with double-digit comp sales in Hollister for the second consecutive quarter including positive comps in all eight stores in the comp base and 300% growth in the DTC business.
We opened our second A&amp;F and 10th and 11th Hollister mall-based stores in China during the quarter.
We are pleased with our performance in China to-date but we'll carefully monitor the competitive and the consumer landscape as we plan future growth.
We're also pleased with our performance in the Middle East where we now have two A&amp;F stores in Kuwait and three Hollister stores in the UAE.
Turning to outlets our MFO stores continue to perform well and produce healthy margins and we now expect to have approximately 13 new or converted stores with MFO merchandise by the end of the year primarily in A&amp;F.
Fourth this past quarter marked the launch of Fierce fragrant products with Inter Parfums in over 300 Sephora stores in France and online.
Initial sales are encouraging and we plan to add selective duty-free and specialty stores in the third quarter.
Fifth the quarter affected continued strong expense management marking the eighth successive quarter in which we have reduced year-over-year operating expense on an adjusted non-GAAP basis with cumulative savings to-date significantly exceeding our initial expectations.
Finally we continue to strengthen both brand teams during the quarter with appointments at the VP level and hire across design planning merchandising e-commerce and marketing.
Our results for the quarter reflect positive progress and we look forward to building on that progress in the coming quarters.
With that I will hand it over to Joanne to review the second quarter results.
Thanks Jonathan and good morning everyone.
I will start with a brief recap of our second quarter results and then provide an update on our outlook for the rest of 2015.
As Arthur mentioned meaningful improvements in our comp sales trend coupled with tight expense management resulted in operating income exceeding our initial expectations coming into the quarter.
For the quarter net sales were $818 million down 8% to last year.
Changes in foreign currency exchange rates versus a year ago accounted for approximately 5 percentage points or $45 million of the sales decline.
Total comp sales were down 4% for the quarter.
On a sequential basis comp sales trends improved broadly from the first quarter particularly in Hollister and internationally.
As referenced on pages 5 and 6 of the investor presentation comp sales were down 7% for Abercrombie and down 1% for Hollister.
By geography comp sales were down 4% in both the U.S.
and international markets.
International markets showed strong sequential improvement with positive comps in Asia and Canada and sequential improvement in Europe including in the UK Germany and France.
These results were driven by strong conversion as customers responded positively to pricing adjustments and new product deliveries in these markets Across brand the direct-to-consumer and omnichannel business grew to approximately 21% of total sales versus approximately 19% last year with growth in both our U.S.
and international businesses.
By category we continued to see strength in jeans and dresses during the quarter and also saw a sequential improvement in the tops business.
While reduced logo contributed to the comp sales decline for the quarter it was somewhat less than expected.
Moving forward we expect that logo will no longer be a headwind and we will view and manage logo just like any other part of our assortment Excluded from our results for the quarter was a pre-tax net charge of $15 million compared to $2 million last year which are detailed on page 4 of our investor presentation.
For the quarter this primarily included $16 million of legal settlement charges.
Excluding certain items the adjusted non-GAAP gross profit rate for the quarter was 62% 110 basis points higher than last year on a constant currency basis primarily driven by lower average unit cost.
Average unit retail in our U.S.
business continued to stabilize while our international AUR declined due to pricing adjustments and lower foreign currency exchange rates.
On an adjusted non-GAAP basis stores and distribution expense decreased $37 million from last year as a result of benefits from FX as well as further expense reduction efforts and the realization of expense savings on lower sales.
On an adjusted non-GAAP basis marketing general and administrative expense for the quarter decreased $6 million primarily due to expense reduction efforts during the quarter.
Excluding certain items adjusted non-GAAP operating income was above last year on a constant-currency basis.
The tax rate remains highly sensitive to earnings mix by jurisdiction particularly at lower levels of profitability which was the case for the second quarter.
For the quarter the company reported adjusted non-GAAP net income for diluted share of $0.12 compared to $0.19 last year.
Results for the quarter included the adverse effects from FX of approximately $0.18.
Turning to the balance sheet we ended the quarter with $408 million in cash and cash equivalents and gross borrowings outstanding of $298 million compared to $311 million in cash and cash equivalents and $188 million in borrowing last year.
We also ended the quarter with total inventory down 13% versus last year.
Details of our store openings for the quarter are included on page eight of the investor presentation.
At the end of the quarter we operated 783 stores in the U.S.
and 171 stores in Canada Europe Asia and the Middle East.
With regard to our outlook for the back half of 2015 we expect continued headwind from foreign currency exchange rates; further comparable sales trend improvements skewed towards the fourth quarter; gross margin rate to be approximately flat compared to last year but up on a constant currency basis; operating expense dollars to be approximately flat compared to last year after absorbing the effect of restoration of incentive compensation provisions which will skew towards the third quarter but excluding effects from changes in comp sales; and a weighted average diluted share count of approximately 70 million shares excluding the effect of potential share buybacks.
In addition we expect an elevated tax rate on a full-year basis which remains highly sensitive to earnings mix.
Over time we expect the tax rate will return to the mid-to-upper 30%s.
Excluded from our outlook for the rest of the year are potential charges related to impairment and store closings and other potential charges related to our strategic initiatives.
We also continue to target capital expenditures for the full year of approximately $150 million.
With regard to real estate plans for the full year we plan to open 15 full-price stores in the key international growth markets of China Japan and the Middle East and six full-price stores in North America.
We also plan to open 10 new outlet stores in the U.S.
In addition we continue to expect to close approximately 60 stores in the U.S.
during 2015 through natural lease expirations.
Now I'm going to hand it over to Fran and Christos who will provide some more color around the performance and strategic initiatives occurring within their brands.
Fran? Hollister Co.
California LLC</strong> Thank you Joanne and good morning everyone.
Before I get started I would like to thank the global Hollister team for their hard work over the past quarter.
We continue to make significant positive changes to our brand and the customer is noticing.
As Joanne mentioned we achieved continued sequential comp improvement in the second quarter delivering a down 1% comp compared to a down 7% (sic) [6%] (14:53) in the first quarter.
We were able to achieve this performance while continuing to reduce our reliance on promotions across all channels.
We continue to drive increased selling of tickets throughout the quarter driven by improvement in the assortment with each product update.
In the U.S.
we comped roughly flat driven by improvement in both the Girls and Guys businesses with tops leading the way for each gender.
In Europe we saw sequential comp improvement in each country.
As we indicated last quarter we completed the rollout of the updated international pricing architecture as new products set in June and July.
The updated pricing along with improved product offering drove strong conversion.
In Asia our China business continued to comp positively and we are pleased with the new store openings in the quarter.
During the quarter we continue to make meaningful progress on our key strategic initiatives.
As we hone our brand and our customer messaging we continued to drive strong engagement on Instagram and other social media platforms where our customer expects to be able to engage.
We partnered with Instagram on a new carousel advertising unit resulting in our strongest engagement ever and a shift in brand affinity.
On Snapchat we were the first global retailer to develop a custom filter on Hollister.
We continue to be early adopter of new platform.
For example Hollister is amongst the most followed brands on We Heart It a social platform targeting teenage girls.
With clarity in our message and strong digital engagement we continue to evolve our customer experience and deliver on-brand on-trend products.
During the quarter we also made solid progress improving our in-store experience.
We continue to update our store operations model to prioritize the allocation of store payroll towards the customer-facing and selling activities.
We've also taken steps to increase the autonomy that our store managers have to set and present items which our local customers desire most.
These efforts will continue to evolve over the next 12 months and are enhancing the shopping experience for our customer.
We remodeled five U.S.
stores during the quarter which included a fully redesigned and refixtured interior.
These test stores are up strongly versus their control stores and we continue to receive positive customer feedback through exit interviews.
Based on the initial positive test reads we expect to remodel five additional U.S.
and three Europe stores later this year.
In the U.S.
we reduced our promotional activity and simplified our promotional pricing to improve clarity and quality and value.
We shortened the length and depth of our clearance messaging as we drove inventory to a more appropriate level.
As we move to the merchandise assortment we were excited to see continued traction in our tops assortment while maintaining a strong bottoms business.
On the girls side we were increasingly excited about our new product.
We drove a solid knit top business and complemented the assortment with on-trend pattern and color in dresses rompers and soft shorts.
On the guys side we delivered significant sequential comp improvement from the first quarter driven by the tops category.
And in bottoms we had a challenging quarter in shorts but made up for it in long bottoms.
Stepping back from category performance I am most excited about the confidence they're gaining as a team to deliver bigger fashion items in the Hollister handwriting.
Finally we continue to make progress around people structure and process.
We made several additional senior-level hires in the quarter.
We have seen the benefit of the perspective and passion brought by our recent additions who complement the strong teams we already had in place.
We are energized by our improvement and look forward to carrying momentum into the back half of the year.
And I will now hand over to Christos.
Thank you Fran.
As Joanne mentioned the Abercrombie brand's 7% comparable sales decline reflected sequential improvement from the first quarter which included strong performance in kids modest improvement in the women's business but no notable progress in the men's business as yet.
While we expected more improvement we did have some wins for the quarter primarily in jeans and dresses.
And while still down year-over-year we are encouraged by some of the improvements we're seeing in the women's tops business.
By region comp trends improved in both North America despite a less promotional stance and an increase in full-price sale (19:35).
Internationally we've seen improvement in the UK Germany and Asia.
To support our progress moving forward we have also made a number of key senior-level hires.
The newfound (19:45) leadership is executing against the strategic initiatives of the brand.
We continue to make changes to improve the customer experience across all channels.
As mentioned during last quarter's call we've improved sightlines throughout the store by removing various props and fixtures.
We've also made changes to the level of scent volume and music and the lighting in our stores.
We've also improved our digital shopping experience emphasizing convenience through on-figure product shots expanded fit information and lifestyle and editorial content that highlights the product.
Our store associates are critical in ensuring our customers have a positive shopping experience.
And on that front we've rolled out a number of enhancements to our store operating model.
These new programs are designed to increase product knowledge and give our associates the means to drive their business by providing them with greater levels of autonomy to make changes based on the specific needs of their customer base.
The programs also increased the frequency of communication and the scope of customer insights compiled by our field associates.
The importance of improving the brand experience is the evolution of our assortment.
And we are encouraged by the progress we're seeing in women's tops particularly in the international markets.
We're particularly pleased with the progress of abercrombie kids where we created a fun and useful assortment and we will be extending our size offering in kids brand to ages – from ages three through to seven to supplement the current size range.
We've also had a successful kids trial on the adult website and we'll be expanding kids into an additional 13 adult stores.
There has been a significant amount of change within the brand.
While our results fell short of our expectations we (21:26) making the necessary adjustments to drive improvements in the business.
And we believe we have the team in place to do that.
With that I'll turn the call back over to Arthur.
Thank you Christos.
As you've heard today and I and our board believe we have an extraordinary executive team that is making excellent progress improving near-term performance and establishing more distinct and defined positioning for our brands to help us drive competitive advantage and realize the full potential of our company.
With regard to a CEO decision the board remains deeply engaged in this process and a new CEO will be appointed in due time.
Far better to make the right choice than a hasty choice.
This concludes our prepared comments and we'll now be happy to take your questions.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Our first question today will come from Matthew Boss of JPMorgan.
Great results.
So on the top line I guess are you comfortable with your out-the-door prices today across the concepts? Any changes still underway globally for us to think about? And what if any headwinds do you foresee preventing a return to positive comps overall next year? Maybe on the pricing we will bifurcate that between Hollister and A&amp;F.
Fran do you want to start with Hollister? Hollister Co.
California LLC</span></strong> Sure.
We have rolled out the pricing.
I think we're very comfortable with where we currently are both domestically and internationally and we don't see any other changes at this point.
In Abercrombie Matthew we continue to make adjustments to the pricing actually both down and up.
We see opportunities at both elements of the pricing spectrum.
On your last part Matt obviously we're not being specific about the rate of progress but we're clearly saying that we do expect to continue to making progress and improving the trend of the business.
Great.
And then just a follow up on margin what's the best way to rank your margin recapture opportunity if we think it by concept over the next call it two to three years? And with that just the best way to think about operating expense leverage if you are able to stabilize the sales beyond this year.
Well I said a couple of opening comments on margins.
First of all we've had this significant FX headwind on gross margin rate this year.
It's going to be a little less in the back half of the year if spot rates hold where they are today although obviously there's a lot of water to go under the bridge on that.
But we would hope that that is less of a headwind certainly in 2016 and may potentially turn the other way.
Then I think with regard to AUC we've made pretty good progress on a full-year basis.
We do have to balance as we said on the last call investing appropriately in the product.
We feel confident that's going to give us a return from an AUR standpoint.
As it relates to expense leverage Matt I think we continue to see opportunities to take expense out of the business.
Certainly we've had a lot of success over the last 18 months to 2 years.
But we continue to believe that our continuous profit improvement approach and engaging the entire organization in making productivity part of everything we do will continue to yield results for us.
We also believe that as we return the stores to higher productivity continue to optimize the fleet that will also help deliver margin – I'm sorry expense leverage.
Great.
That's helpful.
Best of luck.
Thank you.
Next we'll hear from Brian Tunick Royal Bank of Canada.
Hi.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I'll add my congrats on the progress as well.
I guess Christos first.
On the A&amp;F brand I guess lots of changes in terms of the product and positioning.
But wondering it seems like you're trying to age up the customer when we come into the stores and see the marketing.
Can you maybe speak to any research you've done addressing maybe the older young adult customers' perception of the A&amp;F brand in particular and maybe willingness to engage there? And then maybe the second question on the margin line can you maybe talk about the profitability by segment? We're just thinking about the AUR decline at Hollister internationally.
How does that impact those segment margins and what should we think about that going forward? Thanks very much.
Okay Brian.
So in terms of – you referenced aging of the customer.
Actually that's not a deliberate plan of ours to age up the customer.
We're actually thinking less about age and more about style and attitude.
So any changes you may see in store are really the result of the way that customers are taking us to that direction.
So just to emphasize we're not deliberately trying to age the customer; that may be a function of those that shop with us.
In terms of margin...
In terms of margin profitability by segment we don't report the profitability by segment.
But what we have said and I think our results show the investments we're making in price internationally we did test and we saw that we had a return in margin dollars and the results were in line with our expectations as we more fully rolled out the pricing adjustments.
So we believe that and we have seen that it has helped stabilize the comp trend and improved gross margin dollars.
We also have as seen by our gross margin absolute reported performance.
AUC has been an offset to that broadly and we're able to report margin rates roughly in line year-over-year.
And I'll just add Brian I think on the prior call we gave some stats about the overall profitability of the European store fleet in particular and those stats remain very healthy even with the AUR reductions that we've taken.
Terrific.
Thanks very much and good luck.
Thank you.
Next we'll hear from Neely Tamminga Piper Jaffray.
Great.
Good morning and congratulations on the progress you guys are making.
I just had a housekeeping question and then a question for Fran.
Housekeeping Joanne on the Q3 comp indication or the comp indication for more positive momentum in Q4 versus Q3 is that solely because of FX or is there something going on in the current business that's giving you any pause? Any sort of contextualization there would be helpful.
And then secondly for you Fran in terms of leadership team we know that Christos has made it really clear who is leadership team is.
I don't know if I've actually seen a similar announcement fully out of you necessarily.
Where are you on your team overall and how do you feel about – you're doing a great job but I mean are all the holed filled? Thanks.
Neely on the Q3 comp indication I mean I think on the first part in Q2 was slightly better than our expectations and we believe that it's more fourth quarter-weighted really due to the progress we're seeing in our assortments and the incremental improvement we're making in the holiday.
Hollister Co.
California LLC</span></strong> Hi Neely.
It's Fran.
Regarding your question on the leadership team we at Hollister have added leadership to the team over the past couple of quarters.
We have a few positions that we're still looking to fill and have complimented it already was a strong team here.
So moving forward on that front.
Thank you.
And next we'll move to Simeon Siegel Nomura Securities.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning guys.
This is Gene Vladimirov on for Simeon.
It looks like you guys had a sizable inventory reduction for the Q.
Just wondering if you're expecting that trend to continue through the year and then maybe if you'd give us some color on the current composition.
And then just the quick reminder on the current split of logo versus non-logo product what it looks like and whether we should expect that to change going forward? Thanks.
Hi.
So on inventory reduction we did expect the large reduction and we continue to believe we have opportunity to improve productivity in our inventory.
So we expect going forward that we both through better management of the buy and the inventory management process end-to-end should see continued improvement in inventory productivity.
On the logo we did make a structural change in the logo position in our assortment about a year ago.
We've basically let those structural changes as we move into the back half of the year.
I would say we're comfortable with where the logo is in our assortment in terms of absolute level.
And as I mentioned we intend to manage that as we would any other aspect of our assortment moving forward.
Inc.</span></strong> Great thanks.
Oliver Chen with Cowen &amp; Company is next.
Hi thanks and congrats on the solid improvement here.
We were just curious about as we look forward and model the new positive impact from the remodeled stores and the store fronts what's the timing from which we should think about the materiality of driving the comp? Also what's the context from which you're seeing improvement on the remodels? Is it traffic and conversion? Just curious about the context of how the benefit is manifesting.
Thank you.
Yeah.
Hi Oliver.
So on the last part of the question it's a combination of both.
We've seen traffic and conversion both up in those converted stores.
In terms of the impact of the remodels we have a relatively small number today and that will remain the case through the end of the year.
So the overall impact on the comp is therefore pretty much de minimis at this point.
It's an open question at this point as to how many stores we are going to convert in 2016.
That's something we're going to be looking at very hard over the next couple of months as we think about our capital allocation plans as we continue to track the performance of the stores we have remodeled but we're certainly very encouraged by what we've seen so far and we certainly do expect there to be an increased rollout in 2016 but precise numbers still to be confirmed.
Okay.
And just a quick follow-up on the store checks we've noticed a little bit more markdowns on men's versus women's at both concepts.
We're curious about how you felt about where you were in the innings of those assortments.
It's really good that you're pretty happy with women's.
Hollister Co.
California LLC</span></strong> I'll go first.
From a Hollister perspective we made improvement actually in both men's and women's over the quarter a little bit more in women's.
As I mentioned earlier we did positive comp in tops for women's in the first quarter in quite some time but men's made some very significant improvements as well and we see that continuing.
In Abercrombie we definitely haven't seen the same improvements in male as we have in female and I would put that down to the need for us to offer more newness and variety across styles fits fabrics and washes.
Thank you.
Best regards.
Thanks.
Our next question will come from Paul Alexander BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Thank you.
Just a follow-up on the logo discussion.
It sounds like you're not taking the logo down anymore.
What's your philosophy around logo? Do you see the decline in the logo trend stabilizing? Or do you just feel like you have such a sizable logo business that you no longer want to take it down? And how do you think about your approach to logo versus the competition? Hollister Co.
California LLC</span></strong> Oh hi Paul.
It's Fran.
Regarding logo for Hollister we are seeing nice customer acceptance to our logo product.
It is something that we focused on when we first got here and putting sort of quality and value back into our logo.
It is seeking a piece of the business that's sort of going to be part of a balanced assortment that we will offer to the customer going forward.
So it is seeking its own level and that's what the customer is currently telling us.
And regarding the competition we don't normally comment on what's happening with the competition.
In Abercrombie Paul we don't actually set a level for logo.
It will be what customers want it to be.
Fortunately there is good traction.
Customers appear to like the new logo product we're developing.
So we'll just run with that and see where it takes us.
Great.
Thank you.
Next is Thomas Filandro with SIG.
Hey thank you very much and nice job on the progress.
I was hoping to ask the question on the field organization.
I was hoping you could help us better understand the initiatives to empower the field organization.
What exactly is occurring across both brands? And have you seen any impact on the business in terms of maybe shopper conversion UPTs? And then for – how should we think about payroll as a percent of sales with some of these new empowerment initiatives? Thank you.
Hi Tom.
It's Jonathan.
So let me give you a couple of cross-branded comments about what we've done with the stores.
First of all as we mentioned I think a couple of quarters ago we put in place an incentive scheme at the store level related to the store sales performance with a couple of other levers in there.
We've also given the store associates the store managers in particular greater autonomy to make changes within the stores.
If they see something selling well they can move it within the store.
They have some latitude around moving fixtures.
We're also supporting them with some additional training in how they interact with customers and directing them to spend more of the hours that are within the store on customer-facing activities rather than back office-type activities.
I think all of those are examples of things we're doing across both brands.
Christos Fran anything else to add brand-specific? Hollister Co.
California LLC</span></strong> Specifically for Hollister keeping the customer at the center of everything that we do is the mantra we have put out there a bit different than where we were in the past Thomas.
We are seeing conversion internationally as well as domestically which leads us to believe that the customer is being serviced in a way that we are charging the field with.
And then I think on the second part of your question Tom about the payroll as a percentage of sales we're still looking to be very efficient on that.
We're reallocating that payroll more than looking to increase it and the incentive scheme is obviously tied to results.
So if we're delivering a strong incentive through that then we're getting a good top line performance that we'll more than pay for that.
Thank you very much.
Best of luck.
Thank you.
Betty Chen with Mizuho Securities is next.
Betty your line is open.
Please go ahead.
And if you're on a speakerphone please pick up your handset or de-press your mute function.
And again Betty if you're on a speakerphone please pick up your handset or de-press your mute function.
And hearing no response we will move on.
We have Marni Shapiro The Retail Tracker.
Hey guys.
Congratulations.
The stores really look a lot better.
It's exciting to be there.
I just have two quick questions.
One is I know this is going to sound silly but the sales associates seem much happier and a lot less stressed in all of these stores.
So I'm wondering if that's just a function of better sales or have you actually changed the way you're incenting them and the way you're working with them other than allowing them more autonomy in the stores.
And then if you could just give me a quick update.
I've already seen the extended kids assortment in the Abercrombie stores that I've been in but you said you're expanding it to 13.
How many have the kids stores today? Because I've seen the extended sizes today.
Go ahead.
Okay.
So in terms of – I have to say it's up to the sales associate.
I actually think one of the reasons they might appear happier is that they've got control over their own store and they're more autonomous.
It makes a big difference.
It means they can have impact on their own sales and they can see if they react in a certain way and they get a positive result.
I'm sure that that motivates them.
In terms of kids we have – I think it's 29...
Hollister Co.
California LLC</span></strong> 26.
...26 in total including the 13.
That includes the 13.
And so there's been no change in the way you're incenting the associates as far as the pay structure.
Well yes.
As I've mentioned a minute ago Marni we have an incentive scheme in place in the stores which is for the managers.
Right.
And clearly they're motivated to drive the sales in the store.
And I would fully echo Christos' point that I think people value the empowerment and like to be held accountable as long as they're given the ability to impact the outcome which is what they're now getting.
All right.
Congratulations because I have to tell you it's been a really big change in your stores and it seems the customer is responding.
I'm watching adults actually spend more time in your stores.
It's amazing.
Best of luck with the back half of the year guys.
Thank you.
Thank you (39:35).
Our next question will come from Janet Kloppenburg with JJK Research.
Good morning everyone.
Congratulations on the progress.
For Joanne on the expense side including G&amp;A you're down about 8% year over year for the first half of the year.
I'm wondering if you could talk to us directionally about what we should look for in the second half could it be the same level of expense reduction or something greater.
And for Fran and Christos on the category falloff Fran can you talk about your denim performance? Because we are seeing a resurgence in denim demand throughout the industry.
And Christos I think the knit category's been challenging for the A&amp;F brand.
Perhaps you could talk to us about what you see there and if you're making any progress.
Thanks so much.
Thanks Janet.
I'll start with the G&amp;A.
In our outlook we provided for the back half of the year we expect expense dollars excluding managing expense with changes in comp sales we expect the expense dollars to be roughly flat with last year.
And that's made up of a couple of I think big puts and takes.
The FX we expect to continue to be a benefit to operating expense in the back half of the year.
But that is offset with normalized incentive provisions – incentive comp provisions which in the beginning of the year we did talk about our expense performance through the year.
The restoration of our incentive comp accrual versus zero last year hits the back half of the year more heavily than certainly the front half of the year offsetting some of that FX benefit.
We also expect to invest in marketing and DTC also roughly offsetting the benefit we expect to see in FX.
Now having said that we have had success in driving expense reductions and we're continuing to focus on it.
Although those are changes that we report when they're certain so we wouldn't want to get ahead of ourselves in that.
But – just so my interpretation's correct there's some flexibility there? We expect to continue to focus on driving down operating expense yes.
Thank you.
As we have in the past quarters.
Hollister Co.
California LLC</span></strong> Regarding your question on denim Janet we were pleased with our performance in the second quarter for Hollister denim both girls and guys we have had a strong denim business over the past 12 months to 18 months I think we spoke about that in the last call.
And when we recap Q3 we'll bring those results as well.
Thank you.
And I think now (42:25) Janet in terms of your call-out on knits being challenging.
You're correct it has been very challenging particularly in male.
And I put the reasons down to the fact that we haven't moved the collection on enough.
And what we'll be doing therefore is bringing in (42:39) more variety in terms of price points and as well as design.
Thank you.
And next we'll hear from Anna Andreeva with Oppenheimer.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Congratulations on seeing sequential improvement.
I guess my question is if we can talk about the degree of improvement you're seeing at Hollister versus A&amp;F and the disconnect there.
Just curious do you think it's the Hollister brand that is healthier than A&amp;F? Do you think it has to do with the lower ticket or overall better product execution? Just curious on your thoughts there.
And keeping in mind like you said turnarounds are never linear and you do have a new team at A&amp;F just how do we think about the timing of improvement at A&amp;F brand going forward? Yeah thanks Anna.
I'll kick off on this.
So I think the – first of all I think it would be unusual to expect that the brands would move in lockstep with each other.
We have by the way seen good progress in kids which has been similar to what we've seen in Hollister.
So I don't think we would ever expected that the recovery curves of the two brands would take precisely the same path over time.
There is probably some additional baggage that A&amp;F carries related to the historical issues.
And then I think Christos alluded to where the brand is starting to get some traction where progress has been slower from a product standpoint which is also clearly going to be a component of the transition over time.
So inherently I don't think we think it's surprising.
We did hope to make a little more progress on A&amp;F.
We made a little more progress than expected on the other two brands and that we wouldn't expect that to move lockstep going forward either.
Anything to add? No I think just in terms of the new leadership team Anna.
There'll be continuous improvement.
From the moment they walked through the door they started to make a difference and that will just continue all the way through the rest of this year and into next year.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay that's helpful.
And just a follow up on gross margins.
Your gross margins have come in I think more or less on line so far in the first half and you're tweaking down gross margin guidance for the year to flat from I think flat to up slightly previously.
Just what's driving that thought process? And how should we think about the AUC opportunity within that? Thanks.
Yeah so roughly – gross margin guidance is roughly in line with basically how we performed in the second quarter roughly flat to last year but up significantly on a constant currency basis.
We still expect foreign currency to be a headwind in gross margin.
AUC has driven our gross margin performance year-to-date.
We continue to expect AUC to be down as we move through the third quarter but not down as far and stabilizing as we sort of wrap the improvements we made in AUC last year.
So we start to anniversary some of those AUC improvements.
We're encouraged by the AUR stabilization that we've seen which is also an element of our gross margin performance and our outlook as well as the success we've had and the traction we've seen at selling goods at ticket price and stepping away from promotional activity.
And we also believe that our inventory management has left us in a good place in terms of managing AUR as we move through the back half.
Our next question will come from Kimberly Greenberger Morgan Stanley.
Great.
Thank you.
My question's for Christos on the Abercrombie brand.
It looks like there was a tremendous amount of progress in the international comp from Q1 to Q2 but not really in the Abercrombie brand comp from Q1 to Q2.
So I'm wondering if the international results are actually not getting better.
And we're wondering now particularly because I think Abercrombie stores are in many of the tourist destinations and we're hearing others talk about very much a surging tourist business in their international markets particularly Europe.
So I'm just trying to reconcile this seemingly conflicting results coming out of that business.
Yeah Kim let me make a couple of comments on that.
I think first of all it's important to keep in mind that the A&amp;F stores international component of our business is a relatively small segment.
It's much smaller for example than the Hollister stores business internationally.
We did see a bit of progress though in the stores business internationally.
The DTC business was down in Q2 relative to where it had been in Q1 for A&amp;F internationally.
So that's part of – what you're seeing reflects both the store and DTC comp plus the brand cut.
But I think overall as we said the progress was a little slower in A&amp;F in total than we'd expected but we did see – if you're focusing on stores specifically we did see some modest progress in the A&amp;F international stores.
I think to one of the points you may have alluded to there is perhaps a great tourist impact in those stores than there is for Hollister where it's predominantly a mall-based customer whereas in our European flagship stores particularly London for example there's a significant tourist component in there.
But again I think it's important to caveat all of that with the observation that A&amp;F international stores are a relatively small piece of our overall business.
Thank you.
Next we'll take a question from Dana Telsey Telsey Advisory Group.
Dana Telsey your line is open.
Please go ahead.
And if you're on a speakerphone please pick up your handset or de-press your mute function.
And we'll pause just one moment.
Again if you're on a speakerphone please pick up your handset or de-press your mute function.
And hearing no response we will move to Susan Anderson with FBR.
Hi guys.
This is Andy Schmidt on for Susan.
Thanks for taking our question.
Our question is on the gross margin for the back half.
Your outlook is for a flat rate in the back half.
And it sounds like the third quarter opportunity is more AUC-driven in the fourth quarter maybe AUR-driven just given improving momentum.
How should we think about the cadence in the third quarter and the fourth quarter in the back half? And then additionally if you guys could comment on the second quarter traffic by brand that would be helpful.
Thank you.
We haven't provided specific guidance on the Q3 Q4 split.
We do expect as you mentioned I think accurately the AUC to be a bigger driver in Q3.
In terms of traffic by brand we have seen improvements.
Continued stabilization in North America I think that's fairly consistent in improvements.
In Europe I think – I don't have the brand specifics but it's been fairly broad-based on the store side of the business.
Great.
Thanks guys.
Best of luck.
Our next question will come from Rick Patel with Stephens.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Could you provide more color on omnichannel? I'm curious about how receptive your customers have been to your new capabilities and whether you think it's been a greater benefit from a comp or margin perspective.
And then perhaps a little bit more detail on the opportunity for omnichannel in Europe.
Well Rick we've been investing significantly in omnichannel and we think it's a very important thing for us to be investing in particularly given how our customer shops.
We are less far along internationally than we are in the U.S.
We referenced in our prepared comments that we're just starting to roll out some of the omnichannel capabilities particularly in the UK then we will look to roll that out further in Europe going forward.
But in the U.S.
now we have order-in-store and ship-from-store pretty well rolled out.
We're progressively seeing more of the lift coming from those and we think it's an important part of being customer-centric in how we provide a seamless experience to the customer.
So I think U.S.
definitely more progress to come.
Europe still relatively early days but also an important initiative there.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Our next question will come from Omar Saad with Evercore ISI.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Thanks for all the information.
Christos I wanted to ask you about the A&amp;F positioning.
It sounds like you're still going through the progress of trying to leverage your analysis of the brand and research of how to position it in the marketplace.
But any sort of updates information that you've gleaned – or insights you've gleaned about where the brand has its areas of resonance with different types of customers and perhaps maybe segmentation and market positioning relative to the marketplace landscape would be really helpful as we think about how that turnaround (52:21).
Thanks.
Yeah so Omar as you know we will have more detail on this later in the year but currently I'll just call out some indications of where we feel the brand is positioned.
And I think first and foremost it's important that we recognize it's an American brand.
And that's something that's very important in the way that we put this business together.
Secondly it's an iconic American brand as designated by the moose.
And thirdly it has a lot of heritage.
It was founded in 1892.
So it's three components the things we're thinking about every day when we put the collection together.
More than that probably a little bit early for me to give you more details Omar.
And as you continue down this road Christos how do you think about...
Yeah.
The role of marketing advertising leveraging some of those elements (53:14)? Yeah they play a very important role and everything has to be synced up simultaneously and at the same time.
So when we have more color on exactly where we think the positioning will be we'll align all of those components together.
What we do feel is that the positioning is evolving.
kids are playing a very important role in that positioning.
So we do find that when we link kids either on the website to adults or kids in the store then we are reaching new customers.
So it's our job to make sure we satisfy the existing customer base with our brand positioning but also be in a position where we can attract new customers.
So that's part of the thought process as well.
Thanks.
Appreciate the insight.
And our next question will come from Lorraine Hutchinson with Bank of America.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Joanne how big was the incentive comp reversal in the third quarter? And then secondly just following up on Neely's question the fourth-quarter optimism around big sequential pickup in the comp is that primarily driven by the expectation for higher AUR that's product-driven? I'm sorry.
I missed the second part of that question.
The incentive comp reversal I think we spoke about it in the beginning of the year was in the neighborhood of $20 million affecting the back half of the year.
I think the reversal was in the third quarter.
So we're up against that activity from last year.
The second part of that I think I'll take a crack at Lorraine was about again (54:43) coming back to the sequential – or the pace of improvement in the back half of the year and the differential in Q4 I think as Joanne said earlier Q2 we made a little more progress than we expected.
So as we think about how we planned out the year and as we've learned from some of the things that have occurred as we've gone through the past couple of quarters things that we can react to going forward we feel we have a stronger opportunity to make progress in the fourth quarter.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Our next question will come from Lindsay Drucker Mann with Goldman Sachs.
Good morning.
This is Edward McLaughlin on for Lindsay.
You touched on it before but could you go into a little bit more detail about what you expect would be the drivers of improvement in U.S.
margins going forward and how that might shift over the next two to six quarters being the breakdown in markdowns markdown improvement or AUC reductions or just leveraging fixed expenses.
And then if there's any other detail you could also provide on international margins.
So for the U.S.
business on the gross margin line we have had success driving gross margin through AUC.
We believe going forward our margin success would be driven by better inventory management higher acceptance of the product by the customer certainly higher sales at reg price and better management of promotional activity will be a bigger driver in the U.S.
business.
And as it relates to operating margins continued rationalization of our fleet in the U.S.
market will also contribute.
And again we continue to focus on expense reductions and making productivity a way of life and driving more efficiency in the business.
On international markets we are focused on stabilizing the business through comp sales trend stabilization we made investments in price.
We have seen some returns on those investments in the second quarter and we continue to evaluate and drive more productivity and as we do in those boxes we expect to stabilize those margins which are already elevated versus our U.S.
margins.
And we'll move to our next question.
Dorothy Lakner with Topeka Capital Markets.
Yes good morning everyone.
Just a quick question going back to the kids business you spoke about adding I think three years old through seven years old.
I'm just wondering what the timing is on that and is it throughout the fleet including the stores that are within the adult stores.
So three years to several years will be available in all lids stores by Christmas.
Okay.
And it will be available in a limited fashion online by that period of time as well.
As we go through 2016 then we'll expand that out quite significantly.
We carried out tests recently and it proved successful and that's why we're expanding that assortment out further.
Okay Terrific.
And the stores within A&amp;F? The stores within A&amp;F will also carry the three years to seven years age group.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you and good luck.
Thank you.
And next we'll hear from Mark Altschwager with Robert W Baird.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Good morning and thanks for taking the question.
Could you just update us on your chase initiatives? There's been a lot of changes to the business and the assortment.
Is it still a component of the expected comp improvement in Q4? And just how do you see your speed-to-market capabilities evolving with the holiday season and into spring? Hollister Co.
California LLC</span></strong> Yes.
Hi Mark it's Fran.
The past several years and I think we've spoken about a couple times we've really worked hard on evolving our pipeline and our speed to market.
We're continuing to focus on that.
The teams are able and ready on chase capability.
They hold a significant part of their open divide to make sure that they can react to the business.
They've also been empowered to make quicker decisions.
So we are pleased with where we are on our chase initiatives.
Anything further for Mark? Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> No.
Great thank you.
And next we'll go to Dana Telsey Telsey Advisory Group.
(59:56) everyone.
Thank you very much.
A little phone issues before.
On the Abercrombie &amp; Fitch brand the jeans and dresses were certainly wins.
What are the categories that are being worked on that we should look forward to as we move to the back half of the year? And then I have to tell you on the store experience the Hollister stores do look very good in our mall visits.
Anything else we should be noticing with the new formats of Hollister or in Abercrombie with the shutters now removed as we get towards holiday? Thank you.
So in terms of products you should be looking out for certainly sweaters both on male and female.
And I think I would call out Christmas-specific product.
Things like loungewear or motif product.
Anything that's got a relationship to Christmas-giving.
I think that will be a very important component for Abercrombie.
Hollister Co.
California LLC</span></strong> Yeah for Hollister as well I think you're going to continue to see what you've been seeing which is continued improvement with these product updates.
And as we get into the holiday we will also be focused on the holiday experience within Hollister and the gift-giving opportunity.
Just picking up on the store experience just we're going to continue to make improvements.
As we make adjustments to the stores whether that be lighting or sound levels.
We learn something from that and then we'll adjust again.
So I would expect that process will just continue.
There isn't a stop point moment.
Thank you.
And that does conclude today's question question-and-answer session and that will conclude today's conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Abercrombie &amp; Fitch Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2015 Earnings Call.
Today’s conference is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Brian Logan.
Mr.
Logan please go ahead.
Good morning and welcome to our third quarter earnings call.
Earlier this morning we released our third quarter sales and earnings income statement balance sheet store opening and closing summary and an updated financial history.
Please feel free to reference these materials which are available on our website.
Also available on our website is an investor presentation which we will be referring to in our comments during this call.
Today’s earnings call is being recorded and a replay maybe accessed through the Internet at abercrombie.com under the Investors section.
The call is scheduled for 1 hour.
Joining me today are Arthur Martinez Executive Chairman; Jonathan Ramsden Chief Operating Officer; Joanne Crevoiserat Chief Financial Officer; Fran Horowitz Brand President of Hollister; and Christos Angelides Brand President of A&amp;F and abercrombie kids.
After our prepared remarks we will be available to take your questions for as long as time permits.
Before we begin I remind you that any forward-looking statements we may make today are subject to the Safe Harbor statements found in our SEC filings.
With that I hand the call over to Arthur for some opening remarks.
Thank you Brian and good morning everyone and again thank you for being with us this morning.
Our third quarter sales and adjusted operating income exceeded expectations coming into the quarter.
A number of key metrics turned positive during the quarter including comparable sales for our Hollister brand and across both our international businesses.
This provides the strongest validation yet that our initiatives are taking hold and we are on the right course.
In addition we delivered substantial improvement in our gross margin rate which resulted in meaningful adjusted operating income growth over last year on a constant currency basis.
While there was a benefit from the lower tax rate the majority of our earnings improvement came from quality growth resulting from improvements in our sales performance and efficiencies throughout our business.
We recognized that we still have much to achieve particularly in our journey to improve the performance of the Abercrombie brand and more generally to drive more robust traffic to our stores and our website.
While conversion has been strong traffic has been challenging.
We remain intensely focused on continuing to execute against our strategic initiatives to deliver a compelling customer focused shopping experience and assortments based on clearly defined brand positions.
We are pleased with our progress but remain cautious as we move into the fourth quarter given the mixed signals that are coming from the sector.
Regardless we are confident that the work we are doing will continue to provide the foundation for long-term growth and profitability.
Now let me hand it over to Jonathan to provide an update on our strategic initiatives.
Thanks Arthur and good morning everyone.
As Arthur mentioned our results for the quarter validate that we are on track with our ongoing efforts to turn around our business.
Many key indicators turned positive during the quarter and we delivered meaningful adjusted EBIT growth on a constant currency basis for the second consecutive quarter.
Of particular note our European business comped positively for the first time since 2011 with most of our individual stores comping positively.
And while the ever important holiday season is still ahead of us we are confident that our strategies will support continued progress.
With regard to our strategic initiatives I am just going to give a brief update on a few items today since we expect to provide a more comprehensive update at the end of the year along with our outlook for 2016.
Beginning with customer centricity we continue to be very pleased with the strong performance of our remodeled Hollister stores.
We now have 13 remodeled stores and the group continues to post strong results relative to the control group.
In addition we have now put a two new A&amp;F prototype stores during the quarter and we will read the results carefully as we look to expand this concept to more stores.
On the digital side we are very pleased with the results from the investments we have made in mobile which now accounts for approximately 60% of all online traffic and is posting double-digit increases in conversion year-over-year.
We now have close to 3 million cumulative downloads of our mobile apps and in our ongoing efforts to support the shift to mobile we recently released upgraded iOS and Android apps which are getting strong user ratings.
In addition our omni-channel investments are delivering strong returns with order-in-store contributing significantly to our e-com growth.
We look forward to rolling out the capabilities beyond the U.S.
and we started in the UK in the third quarter with the launch of click-and-collect in all of our stores there.
With regard to e-commerce in general we continue to see strong growth in China where we once again did very well on Singles’ Day generating nearly $2 million in sales.
A year into our localization efforts there we are pleased with the return on our investments driven by both increased traffic and conversion.
Looking forward we will add mobile enhancements in China in 2016 reflecting the already strong mobile penetration in the market.
Moving on to our efforts to expand our brand presence we opened 9 full-priced stores during the quarter including our fourth A&amp;F and 12th Hollister stores in China and our fourth Hollister store in Hong Kong.
We also opened 4 new A&amp;F outlet stores in the U.S.
during the quarter which brings us to about 13 new or converted stores at MFO merchandise mostly A&amp;F.
Outlet stores of MFO merchandise continued to perform well with strong four wall margins.
In early 2016 we plan to convert approximately an additional 10 Hollister outlet stores from liquidation to MFO.
Finally our wholesale business while still small continues to grow and is on track to hit our target of $6 million in margin contribution this year.
And our licensing business has now expanded to include Fierce in select duty-free locations in the U.S.
Across many areas of our business we see the strategic choices we have made paying off.
And as we see a return to health in the core of our business we have a strong platform to leverage this improved performance.
In sum our results for the quarter reflect good progress on several fronts and give us confidence that the steps we are taking are the right ones.
That progress is the result of the efforts of our talented and dedicated associates across the business and I would like to take this opportunity to thank them all for their efforts.
With that I will hand it over to Joanne to review the third quarter results.
Thanks Jonathan and good morning everyone.
After recapping our third quarter results I will provide an update on our outlook for the fourth quarter.
In the third quarter as both Arthur and Jonathan mentioned earlier continued improvement in the comp sales trends coupled with a higher gross margin rate resulted in significant growth in adjusted operating income over last year on a constant currency basis.
Net sales for the quarter were $879 million approximately flat to last year on an FX neutral basis.
Changes in foreign currency exchange rates adversely impacted sales by approximately 4 percentage points or $33 million.
Total comp sales were down 1% for the quarter.
On a sequential basis comp sales trends improved broadly from the second quarter particularly in Hollister and internationally where they turned positive for the quarter.
As shown on Page 5 of our investor presentation by brand comp sales were down 5% for Abercrombie and up 3% for Hollister.
By category we continued to see significant comp sales trend improvement in the tops business particularly within female tops where comps were strongly positive.
And while overall male business lagged female we saw continued strength in jeans in both genders during the quarter with positive comps across all brands.
By geography comp sales were down 3% in the U.S.
and up 1% in the international markets.
We continue to see considerable improvement in international markets with comps turned positive for the quarter in Europe driven by conversion with strong customer response to our assortment and pricing adjustments.
Across brands the direct-to-consumer and omni-channel business for the quarter accounted for approximately 21% of total sales with growth over last year in both our U.S.
and international businesses on a constant currency basis.
Excluded from our results for the quarter were net pre-tax charges of $10 million compared to $20 million last year which are detailed on Page 4 of our investor presentation.
For the quarter this included $12 million in store asset impairment charges primarily related to the A&amp;F flagship store in Hong Kong which has experienced the significant drop in Chinese stores traffic.
This was partially offset by a benefit of $3 million from higher than expected recovery on the first quarter inventory write-down.
Adjusted non-GAAP gross margin for the quarter was 63.4% 120 basis points higher than last year on a reported basis and 210 basis points higher on a constant currency basis.
The increase in adjusted gross margin reflected the benefit of lower average unit cost coupled with higher average unit retail primarily in the U.S.
driven by higher full price selling and less promotional activity.
AUR in international markets was approximately flat on a constant currency basis with higher conversion and full price selling offsetting price investments in those markets.
On an adjusted non-GAAP basis stores and distribution expense decreased $19 million from last year as a result of benefits from foreign currency as well as expense reduction efforts partially offset by higher direct to consumer expense.
On an adjusted non-GAAP basis marketing general and administrative expense for the quarter increased $14 million from last year primarily due to higher compensation related expenses including the restoration of an accrual for incentive compensation.
And as previously mentioned adjusted non-GAAP operating income was above last year on a constant currency basis.
The effective tax rate for the third quarter was a benefit of 16%.
Excluding certain items the adjusted non-GAAP effective tax rate for the quarter was an expense of 28%.
Both the effective tax rate and the adjusted non-GAAP effective tax rate reflect benefits related to a change in the estimated annual effective tax rate.
In addition the effective tax rate and the adjusted non-GAAP effective tax rate reflects discrete benefits of $10 million and $8 million respectively related to the release of a valuation allowance and other discrete tax items.
Including these adjustments for the full year we expect the non-GAAP adjusted effective tax rate to be in the mid to upper 30s.
For the quarter we reported adjusted non-GAAP net income per diluted share of $0.48 compared to $0.42 last year.
And as I mentioned a moment ago our results for the quarter included discrete tax benefits of $8 million or approximately $0.11 per share.
In addition our results reflect the year-over-year adverse effects from FX of approximately $0.13.
Turning to the balance sheet we ended the quarter with $406 million in cash and cash equivalents and gross borrowings outstanding of $297 million compared to $321 million in cash and cash equivalents and $330 million in borrowing last year.
During the quarter we repurchased 2.5 million shares at an aggregate cost of $50 million.
We also ended the quarter with total inventory down 3% versus last year which included a significant increase in inventory in-transit due to a floor set shift.
Excluding in-transit inventory was down 10%.
Details of our store openings for the quarter are included on Page 9 of the investor presentation.
At the end of the quarter we operated 790 stores in the U.S.
and 175 stores in Canada Europe Asia and the Middle East.
With regards to our outlook for the fourth quarter we expect comp sales to be approximately flat.
Continued adverse effects from foreign currency exchange rates gross margin rate to be approximately flat to last year on a constant currency basis as we begin to anniversary average unit cost reductions from a year ago operating expense dollars to be approximately flat to last year after absorbing a provision for the restoration of incentive compensation and a weighted average diluted share count of approximately 68 million shares excluding the effect of potential share buyback.
In addition we expect the full year adjusted effective tax rate to be in the mid to upper 30s including the benefits related to the valuation allowance release and other discrete tax items recognized through the third quarter.
On a going-forward basis we expect the annual effective tax rate to be in the upper 30s.
Financial charges related to impairment and store closings our strategic initiatives and related tax effects are excluded from our outlook for the rest of the year.
We also continue to expect capital expenditures for the full year of approximately $150 million.
In addition to the 23 new stores we have opened year-to-date we expect to open eight new stores in the fourth quarter including six international stores and two North American stores.
In addition we continue to expect to close approximately 60 stores in the U.S.
during 2015 through natural lease expirations.
I will now hand it over to Fran and Christos to provide more color around brand performance and strategic initiatives.
Fran? Thank you Joanne and good morning everyone.
I would first like to thank the Hollister team both on campus and in our stores around the world for their continued dedication efforts and optimism.
We are encouraged by continued improvement in our results.
As Joanne noted we achieved continued sequential comp improvements and a return to positive comps in the third quarter.
By geography we delivered positive comps in each of our key volume regions of the U.S.
Europe and China.
In the U.S.
we are particularly pleased that our comp sales were largely driven by higher AUR as we continue to reduce our reliance on promotional frequency and depth and continue to benefit from lower levels of clearance inventories.
In Europe we return to positive comps overall with positive comps in nearly every country.
Consistent with last quarter we continue to see strong conversion driven by our improved assortments and updated pricing architecture.
In China we continue to see comp sales growth.
By category our performance is driven by continued sequential improvements in our assortments for both genders with the largest improvements coming from our girls’ tops business.
We saw particular strength in our knits business and achieved positive comps across all girls’ tops categories.
Our growth denim business remains solid as well.
On the guys side we achieved modest sequential comp improvement from the second quarter.
Our denim and other long bottoms businesses remained strong complemented by a strong sweater and fleece business.
Across all categories we are seeing the benefits of the improvements we have implemented around the design assortment and buying process.
With our back to school floor set the customer responded to the steps we took to deliver a more thoughtful on brand and balanced assortment.
This was evidenced by strong conversion and higher regular price sell-through and resulted in substantial gross margin dollar growth.
We also continue to make progress during the quarter on our other strategic initiatives.
From a customer messaging perspective we continue to work with our key social media partners to drive innovation.
During the quarter we partnered with Snapchat to become the first retailer to offer a sponsored geo-filter in 19 000 high schools across the U.S.
and Canada.
We are committed to continuing to find new innovative ways to engage with our customers.
We continue to pilot a loyalty program in several markets across the country with a U.S.
rollout plan for 2016.
We remodeled eight additional stores during the quarter five in the U.S.
and three in Europe all of which reopened with a fully redesigned interior and storefront.
We are happy with the initial results.
And as Jonathan said we continue to assess the performance of these stores which will factor into the rollout plans we are developing for next year.
Finally we continued to strengthen our organization by putting the right people and processes in place for our continued progress and growth.
To close we continued to make progress in Q3.
We have plenty of work to do but I am confident that we are putting the right people and processes in place to build our business around our customer and strong modern brand identity.
I will now hand it over to Christos.
Thank you Fran and good morning everyone.
Although comp sales declined in the third quarter versus last year we did deliver continued sequential comp improvement in the Abercrombie brands.
The sequential improvement in the adult business was driven by women’s.
And in the kids business it was driven by boys.
A&amp;F men’s underperformed where we need to do more work to further evolve the assortments and concentrate on a newly designed exciting products.
Geographically we achieved sequential improvement across all three regions of the U.S.
Europe and Asia.
Throughout the quarter we also made progress on reducing our overall discount to get across all channels while still ensuring that we remained competitive in a pretty highly promotional environment.
As a result our margin dollar improvement outpaced the sales improvement for the quarter.
During the quarter we continued to make progress on our strategic initiatives including increasing our focus on customer experience.
We now have opened a small number of close type stores during the quarter with improved lighting and open shopping experience and a format that allows our store associates to engage with more of our customers.
We also continue to enhance our store operating model with programs designed to increase the depth of our associates’ product knowledge and support high levels of autonomy and decision-making within the stores.
These initiatives provide further opportunities for the field associates to engage with customers and make decisions that derived from that engagement.
Regarding brand reach we have expanded our wholesale partnerships through launching a small collection of both adult and kids products with Next in the UK in early August.
Results have been promising.
In addition we executed the rollout of extended sizes for younger ages in our kids business.
The entire online assortment and half of the kids’ in-store assortment is now available in sizes for children aged 3 to 6.
We are encouraged by the results and we will expand this as we move through the fourth quarter.
We also featured a select assortment kids’ product on the adult website during the quarter.
Results have been positive in both new customer acquisitions and average transaction volumes.
We are also continuing the expansion of kids stores within the adult space and have opened 13 new locations since early October.
Finally I am pleased to welcome Kristina Szasz as our Head Designer for Women’s.
She brings nearly 20 years of industry experience to the brand most recently a design director for denim at Karl Lagerfeld and Tommy Hilfiger at PVH in Europe.
We are already seeing the impact to the fashion energy and enthusiasm within the teams.
Indeed I have been impressed by the attitude and response of all members of the team while we go through this repositioning perhaps.
In closing while progress has been slower than we have hoped we believe that the actions we are taking will drive continued sequential sales improvement in the fourth quarter.
With that I will turn the call over to Brian.
Thanks Christos.
This now concludes our prepared comments.
We will be happy to take your questions.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today will come from Matthew Boss with JPMorgan.
Thanks guys.
So a question for you as we break down the operating expense as you pulled out about $400 million from the base the past two years so as we think about the return to positive comps here what’s the best way to think about potential acceleration of OpEx any potential buckets of reinvestment to drive the business and the top line go forward? Hi Matt.
This is Joanne.
In terms of OpEx we are dedicating – dedicated to continuing to find efficiency and productivity improvements in the company.
We do believe we have continued opportunities to drive efficiency.
The outlook that we provided for Q4 the big drivers of flat dollars on flat sales outlook and on comp sales line are really investments in DTC offset with some continued benefits from FX rates.
Within and underneath that there are some investments we continue to make in marketing and as I said in DTC.
And we have found savings to offset those.
So we will continue to look for productivity improvements as we move forward but we don’t – I won’t – we don’t typically comment on those until they are more certain.
But we have an effort here and continuous profit improvement that will be ongoing and deliver benefits we believe in the next year and beyond.
Great.
And then I just had a quick housekeeping follow-up.
As we breakdown the fourth quarter gross margin guide what would be the puts and takes in terms of AUR AUC and FX? And then just larger picture what kind of promotional backdrop do you have embedded into the forecast? Yes.
You have hit on the three moving parts in the fourth quarter margin outlook.
We are lapping the decreases that began last year in AUC so we don’t see that as a benefit in Q4 as we have seen for the previous three quarters this year.
And as it relates to FX although FX at our current estimates will be abating somewhat in the fourth quarter we also had benefits from hedging last year that we won’t be anniversary-ing to the same degree.
So all-in we expect the FX headwinds to continue to be pretty consistent to what we have seen for the balance – earlier this year.
In terms of AUR I think we are – our outlook includes a realistic expectation for AUR growth given what is shaping up to be a potentially challenging and promotional fourth quarter.
Great.
Best of luck.
Nice quarter.
Next is John Morris with BMO Capital Markets.
Thanks.
Congratulations everybody on some real nice improvement.
I think my first question is picking up on the commentary about – I think this is for Christos the commentary about giving higher levels of autonomy and decision-making in the stores which I think is interesting.
Can you give us a little bit more color on that where you are going so far in terms of the autonomy extending to product product positioning and/or in-store markdowns or anything along those lines? And could you be considering extending some of that autonomy to the Hollister division as well if not already? And then my quick follow-up is the plan for marketing changes next year given kind of the improvements that you are seeing what are you thinking about in terms of marketing for next year? Could you be putting even a little bit more spend behind that in terms of the marketing positioning etcetera? Thanks.
So yes it’s Christos.
So in terms of high level of autonomy it primarily revolves around the store associates’ ability to move product placements in store.
So putting product in positions that we know customers find favorable best sellers nearer the front of the store for example or items that we feel are going to sell very strong in accessible locations.
But it also allows associates to change their staffing model up or down manage queues and manage the fit rooms.
And perhaps more importantly it means that the associates are motivated to engage with customers.
The impacts that are happening in Abercrombie are primarily the same in Hollister as well.
Great.
And on the marketing? John it’s Fran.
Yes so we initiated the same at Hollister obviously at the beginning of this year.
We spoke about putting the customer at the center of everything that we do and our store initiatives really support that.
In addition we have talked earlier about even an incentive plan that we have instituted that has been successful for the associates to really help them understand what is important in their business and the KPIs that drive their business.
So for both brands it’s been a successful initiative.
John on the last piece it’s too early to comment on specific marketing expenditure plans or marketing plans more generally for 2016.
We are continuing to work through this brand positioning project.
We expect to conclude that in the relatively near future and we do think that’s going to be a very important component of driving engagement and traffic back into the stores but it’s too early to say exactly how we will communicate that positioning but that will be an important part of our plans going forward.
Thanks Jonathan.
Good luck everybody for holiday.
Thanks John.
Thank you.
Neely Tamminga Piper Jaffray has our next question.
Great.
Good morning.
Congratulations to the whole team.
So a couple of questions here from us on the holiday.
So we have noticed in your – right in front of the cash drop at Abercrombie you have been bringing in holiday it looks like a little bit earlier this year versus last year.
Can you speak to some of the plans there? Are you feeling like you actually have enough inventory for holiday based on what we are seeing? And then Fran from – very specifically on denim we have noticed that you guys have kind of migrated from $25 denim up to BOGO $50 which kind of seems to take the out the door pricing up higher.
Will we see this potentially go back down to $25 around Black Friday or any sort of Black Friday plans you could offer for us would be helpful as we navigate it? Thanks.
Hey Neely I will take the first part across the business.
We did set a little bit earlier for Christmas this year across both brands.
That’s just part of the normal cycle of reviewing floor-set dates.
So you would have seen that in the stores.
With regard to the second part of your question yes we feel we have appropriate levels of inventory coming into the fourth quarter holiday.
Fran take that denim question.
On the denim piece for Q3 we did navigate between $25 jeans and BOGO Jeans as part of our strategy which we will continue to do throughout the quarter for Q4.
And I think on the last part we never give forward-looking commentary on our promotional plans.
Alright we will be in the stores.
Best wishes out there.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question will come from Betty Chen Mizuho Securities.
Thank you.
I was wondering if you can talk a little bit about what are some of the opportunities for both brands going to holiday season.
I know Fran you cited some nice improvement in many of the product categories knits denims remaining strong.
Are there some other opportunities that you feel like are pretty significant callouts year-over-year? And the same thing at the adult A&amp;F brand Christos can we potentially see the men’s business start to evolve in the fourth quarter or is that more [for 2016] [ph]? Any sort of big call-outs for women’s opportunity would be helpful.
Thank you.
Hi Betty it’s Fran.
As far as Hollister is concerned yes we certainly have seen some very significant improvement particularly in our girls tops area consecutively last few quarters as well as having a strong denim business as you mentioned.
As we go into Q4 we believe we will continue to see improvements.
In terms of Abercrombie Betty I think our Christmas gifting is going to be very important as we go into the Christmas and also our sleep collection seeing very good initial signs from that area.
In terms of the men’s in the fourth quarter I think we will see an improvement but actually the significant change I expect will come in 2016.
You may recall we have appointed Aaron Levine as the new men’s design lead.
And his collections will start to come in the New Year.
I have been very impressed with some of the first ideas I have seen.
And then can I just follow-up in terms of the weather some of the retailers have called out sort of weather being uncooperative so far in the season how do you feel about your positioning in some of the thicker weighted items like sweaters and outerwear I know inventory was clean coming into the quarter but just curious on some of the cold weather items? Yes.
It’s very disappointing when weather doesn’t cooperate really annoying.
So well we are managing the – we are there at every week weather dependent there are issues.
And it’s our job to manage those issues.
It’s not something that we talk about on a day-to-day basis to be honest with you.
Our job is to manage all of those conditions.
So yes we have outerwear we have got sweaters in some areas its light some areas its heavy.
But we will have proposals to get through those.
Great.
Well congrats on a nice quarter best of luck for the holiday.
Our next question will come from Simeon Siegel with Nomura Securities.
Good morning guys this is Gene Vladimirov on for Simeon.
Congrats on a strong quarter.
Can you give us any color on what drove the positive comp internationally and any divergence you may have seen in the trends between Europe and China and then maybe how you think about the opportunities there going forward? Sure Simeon.
I would say it was a broad based sequential improvement across the international business across brands and across channels but we saw stores and e-comm.
We gave a couple of data points earlier on.
So I think if you break it down a little further we saw strong conversion improvement which was the biggest driver of it which we view very positively as a reaction to the product and pricing particularly in Europe.
But it was fairly broad based.
But there were some countries that were outliers.
But overall the improvement was broad based from the prior quarter.
And then a quick follow-up just wondering if we can get some color on the wholesale business like how big do you see that getting over time and how boarder distribution you would like to see there? Yes.
Its early days for us on wholesale we have got these two relationships in place today with Next and ASOS predominantly in the UK although ASOS is an international customer outside the UK as well.
As we said in the prepared remarks we are pleased with the progress we have made.
We are going to get a nice contribution from that business this year.
But I think it’s too early for us to say at this point how significantly that could ramp up over time but we are certainly happy with what we have seen so far.
Great.
Thanks.
Good luck for holiday.
Thank you.
Our next question will come from Kimberly Greenberger with Morgan Stanley.
Great.
Thank you so much.
I want to dive a little bit into the average unit cost savings it sounded like you expect the AUC savings to diminish I guess after the fourth quarter.
And I am wondering can you give out any potential savings in cotton in 2016.
And then just a clarification for Joanne I think payables rose about $106 million year-over-year but your inventory fell $16 million so we were just wondering what the cause of the divergence is? Thanks so much.
So on AUC savings Kimberly we have been working to reduce AUC really with products reengineering and have seen the benefit of that for about the past four quarters.
We began seeing the benefits in the fourth quarter last year.
Cotton certainly is an element of that but also product reengineering.
As we move into Q4 this year our outlook takes into account that we are going to be lapping those savings so we don’t expect to see the same AUC savings that we have experienced year-to-date as we come back around.
As we move forward certainly raw material prices are a function of the equation in AUC moving forward.
We are also looking at investing back into the product in certain cases and we will do that on a case by case basis where we believe we can get paid forward in terms of AUR growth.
In terms of payables we did make an adjustment in our terms we have offered some supply chain financing for our suppliers to take advantage of and also adjusted our payables terms.
In addition we mentioned the in-transit increase year-over-year related to the floor set shift and that also factored into our payables balance being up this year.
Thank you.
Next is Janet Kloppenburg JJK Research.
Hi everybody.
Congratulations on a nice quarter.
Just a couple of questions you have said that you felt that your fourth quarter assortments or your holiday assortments were really where we should see some major change you are encouraged about the improvement there.
So I am wondering if you could talk to any improvement you might have seen when those assortments hit the stores in October and maybe give us some idea of how comps trended during the quarter.
And on the gross margins guidance you are up against a pretty significantly easier comparisons in the fourth quarter than you are in the third quarter and I know the AUC obstacle but I am wondering if that just reflects the fact that there is a lot of inventory on hand at your competitors and you are worried about promotional activities or if their promotional plans may be different if you could help us with understanding that that would help a lot.
And also Joanne if you could give us an idea on your outlook for gross margin for the year now how should that come out? Thanks.
Hi Janet good morning I will take the first one and then Joanne will take the other part.
So in terms of improvements in the assortment we typically don’t comment on the cadence within a particular quarter.
I think we are continuing to make improvements and refinements to the product and we have a level of confidence that we are going to continue to see a return from that but we can’t really comment more specifically than that.
Yes.
In terms of margin guidance I think I have spoke to earlier the moving parts that are impacting our guidance.
I think the fourth quarter margin rates reflects and our outlook reflects as I said lapping the AUC increases from a year ago.
We do continue to expect FX headwinds.
And to your point we expected the fourth quarter will be challenging given some of the commentary we have heard in the sector some of the inventory levels across the sector.
We do feel good about our inventory position.
As Jonathan mentioned earlier going into the quarter but we know the fourth quarter is always is a very competitive quarter and that is what our outlook reflects.
But FX will be less pressured than in the third quarter is that correct Joanne? No we do see the – based on what we know today obviously and what we can see today in terms of currency exchange rates we do see it abating somewhat as we start to lap the beginning of the big declines from a year ago Janet.
But we do have hedging benefits that were up against from last year that we won’t be able to anniversary to same degree.
So all-in the FX headwinds we see are as pretty consistent as what we have seen for the balance of the year.
Okay.
Best of luck for good holiday thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Next is Susan Anderson with FBR.
Hi good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
I am wondering if you could talk about the logo business maybe the performance that you are seeing in the U.S.
and international now that you brought it back and was there any impact at all since you are now cycling the exit last year but yet you brought it back? Thanks.
What was the second part of the question? I will just – I will kick it off.
I don’t – we didn’t bring logo back.
We brought it down to a level that we thought it was appropriate in our assortments.
And what we have said is logo will continue to have a place in our assortments.
And we did see improvement across the tops business in general particularly in female tops.
Logo was a part of that but the improvement that we saw was very broad-based.
And on a go-forward basis we are reviewing and evaluating the logo business as we would any other part of our business.
I will turn it over to Fran for any – or Christos.
Sure.
Just to echo Joanne but logo is a piece of our business.
We are currently figuring out to what degree it is important but the customer has voted continuously that they do want logo both in the U.S.
and internationally.
As we move forward we will figure out the appropriate levels but it will be a part of our business.
Got it.
Just quick from an Abercrombie point of view I think it’s very encouraging that customers are happy to buy product that have got the logo of both brands on the front of them.
It’s a very positive positive message.
Great.
That’s good news.
And just one follow-up on the weather question so is that kind of what’s adding your cautiousness around fourth quarter? Is it more just the promotional environment out there? And then maybe if you could just give a little bit more color on how your trends are quarter-to-date if it’s been impacted by weather but it seems like from your comp guidance you still feel pretty good about the sequential improvement? Yes I wouldn’t say that our outlook is specifically related to weather.
We believe that it is realistic.
Our outlook for fourth quarter is fairly consistent with where we were in August when we provided an outlook for the back half.
We have a lot more data points at this point including both our performance in the third quarter as well as what we are hearing from competitors.
And at this point we don’t see any reason to be anymore bullish on Q4.
Great that’s helpful.
Thank you.
Good luck next quarter.
Thank you.
Marni Shapiro with The Retail Tracker has our next question.
Thanks guys.
Congratulations.
And Fran I am so excited about the Geotag and SnapChat to my favorite mode of communications.
So it’s so efficient.
So I have a question about what I am seeing online in in-stores.
I spend a lot of time online and a lot of time in stores and it’s very easy to navigate online and find what’s new and see what’s new.
And sometimes you arrive in the stores both at Abercrombie and at Hollister and it’s not so easy to find the merchandise.
And it’s not saying that it’s specifically online only good.
And I am curious is this selling out too quickly in the stores? Is there a way to better connect those dots or are these things that haven’t hit the stores yet or will never – actually will never hit the stores? Marni I am not sure what you are saying in terms of – are you saying it’s difficult to locate online-only goods in stores? Is that what you...
No no no this isn’t merchandise that is online only.
So if you shop like a customer and I go online and I look for things and I will create list to go into stores to look for as a customer would.
It’s been very difficult that your stores over the last couple of months to find these things.
And I am curious are they not in these stores? Are they sold out? Is it the way the stores are merchandised? I guess the point is there a better way to close the loop? If mobile traffic is up so strong we know she is shopping at home online isn’t the dream to get her into the stores to buy it but she has to be able to find it? So Marni I think overall there is no generic – I mean without knowing the specific stores you have gone into it’s hard to comment on exactly what you have seen but there is no generic reason why you should be seeing less availability in store than online of your current merchandise.
Obviously we do now have pretty good omni-channel capabilities.
So if you are looking for quick items not in store we do have order-in-store enabled in pretty much all of our U.S.
stores at this point but maybe we could follow up with you offline about the specific stores you went through and I understand that point a little better because we are clear on why you would be seeing that.
Yes right.
Maybe I will follow up online.
To me it becomes a bit of a disappointment when you come into the stores as a customer and you can’t manage to find everything you are looking for.
So if I could just flip to one other quick question and if you wouldn’t mind the little kids in the Abercrombie stores is this helping to drive traffic as well as sales? It is.
Although it is mixed across several stores that we have but in general terms it is helping to bring into the stores a new customer.
I think that lapse of customers and in general terms it is helping to drive the sales yes.
Fantastic.
Great.
And I will follow up with you guys offline.
Yes that would be great.
Thank you.
Thanks Marni.
Best of luck for holidays.
Our next question will come from Brian Tunick with Royal Bank of Canada.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
I guess two questions.
One on the international price adjustments have they been rolled out now to all the countries? And were you guys pleased with the four-wall margins or dollars you got from the sales improvement? Did that help offset the AUR declines on the international side? And then the second question I think on the balance sheet did we see you guys bought back some stock here in the quarter? And just sort of remind us what your philosophy is there on minimum cash and sort of what you are thinking about for the balance sheet and inventories as we end the year? Thanks very much.
So Brian on the international price adjustments we did roll that out broadly with the back-to-school floorset so at the end of Q2 it impacted all of Q3.
We are pleased with the customer response to those adjustments both the pricing adjustments and our assortments.
As we mentioned in our comments we saw benefit in conversion and the return to positive comps in our international business.
So we believe that those are – we are well received by the customer.
We also mentioned that AUR on a constant currency basis essentially flat in our international markets in the third quarter which with higher full price selling and mix of business offsetting those price declines.
So we are happy with the four-wall margin obviously with the flat AUR.
We were pleased with the margin performance in the international markets overall.
As it relates to the balance sheet we did repurchase shares.
Our capital allocation strategies have not changed.
Our first priority is to invest in our business and projects that provide the highest risk-adjusted returns.
And then beyond that return excess cash to shareholders through dividend and share repurchase.
We make our share repurchase decisions on a quarterly basis based on our liquidity outlook and as well as valuation in the market.
So we did repurchase shares in the third quarter.
As it relates to forward view our cash targets are we believe having about $300 million to $350 million in cash on the balance sheet provides the cushion that we need to operate our business.
And then from an inventory perspective we continue to expect inventories to be down.
And if I could just throw in one more.
On the store closing side obviously Hollister looks like it’s stabilizing here.
Is your perspective at all changed on what the right size of the Hollister fleet should be or how many stores come up for Hollister renewals in the next two or three years? Hey Brian.
We still have a very high percentage of our leases up for renewal the next 2 to 3 years so we have a lot of flexibility.
I would say at this point our view has not changed.
We have indicated 60 closures across brands this year or something in that order of magnitude and likely continuing at that pace for the next couple of years but obviously we continue to review that as we move forward.
It’s a store-by-store decision ultimately based on the projected economics of each individual store.
But at this point I would say no significant change in our outlook there.
[Operator Instructions] Next we will hear from Richard Jaffe with Stifel.
Thanks very much guys.
And I guess a couple of general questions.
The fashion trends that you see working particularly on the women’s side could you provide a little bit more color on what’s working? And then just a follow-on if you could spend a minute on the outlet opportunity.
Thank you.
From a Hollister perspective here Richard we have actually had nice reaction to all tops categories that’s inclusive of knits wovens and sweaters as well as fleece.
So we have had a pretty consistent reaction over the past two quarters and nice comp increases in those categories.
As we mentioned in the last call and further today positive comps for the first time in a very long time and two consecutive quarters of that.
The customer is responding very nicely to product that we are putting out there.
From an Abercrombie point of view Richard I would rather not call out on specific fashion trends actually from a competitive sensitivity point of view other than to say that primarily it’s driven in the tops area in the same respect as Hollister.
And Richard just on the outlet side I would say overall we are taking a balanced approach to outlets.
We are certainly pleased with the performance we are seeing in the converted MFO and the new MFO outlet stores.
We do anticipate more conversions and openings in 2016 but obviously we are also mindful of the balance between our outlet stores and our full-priced stores.
So that will continue to be something to which we will pay close attention.
Thank you.
And our next question will come from Paul Lejuez with Citi.
Hey thanks guys.
Hey on the improvement in international just curious if that was driven more by better sales to local customers or has there been an increase in tourist shopping and spending in some of those locations? And then just secondly curious about your initial thoughts on CapEx for next year? Thanks guys.
Paul on the international improvement most of our business internationally is local.
Particularly in the mall-based stores we obviously have some flagship stores in more tourist-based locations.
But tourist business in our international business is relatively small slice of the business overall so predominantly that improvement has been driven by the local customer.
I will hand over to Joanne for the CapEx question.
We are currently evaluating our CapEx budget and I don’t have a lot – I can’t report a lot today but we are in the process of evaluating CapEx budgets in light of lot of the projects that we have initiated this year evaluating the performance and that will all be included in the outlook that we provide at the end of the year.
Thanks.
Jon just to follow up can you share the performance of the flagships versus the mall stores internationally? Yes.
We typically don’t get into that level of detail.
I would say in terms of the overall impact of the comp of the flagship and tourist stores it wasn’t a material impact relative to the overall trend of the business.
Alright.
Thanks guys.
Good luck.
Thank you.
Omar Saad with Evercore ISI has a question.
Hi guys.
This is actually [indiscernible] on for Omar.
Can you speak to your online business? I think you said it was up both international and in the U.S.
I know you called out China but can you speak give a little bit more color about the growth in the online I think that that’s been under a little bit of pressure and it seems like it’s turned? Thank you.
Yes it was up both domestically and internationally.
Again we don’t typically sort of parse it out much more than that.
And we talked in the prepared remarks about strong growth in China as we left the – as we even after we have left the localization there.
As you probably recall about a year ago we went to a local fulfillment local translated websites in China and for Asia as a whole and that gives a very significant boost to the business which has obviously also been augmented by the increased store presence growing brand awareness in the region.
So overall we saw growth across domestic and international strong growth in China and we typically don’t parse it out much more than that.
And we will take our next question from Anna Andreeva with Oppenheimer.
Good morning.
This is Janet Lynne on for Anna.
We were hoping that you could speak to some of the changes going on at the A&amp;F brand and any more detail on the prototype remodels.
Also I know at A&amp;F there have been some ongoing adjustments to pricing.
If you could speak about the progress of these initiatives and maybe an update on other ways the new leadership is affecting the business? Thanks.
So in terms of the prototype Janet so we have opened a couple of stores a more opening feel slightly lighter in terms of the ambience.
And we made adjustments to the way that we lay the prototype.
So far the results have been encouraging but it’s very early days.
In terms of pricing the pricing really is an ongoing thing that we look at on a continual basis.
There is no strategic shift in pricing other than we have to be very mindful of our brand position and we have to be competitive.
And then in terms of the organizational structure and people quite a few highs obviously are now embedded in the business and they are all making an impact on the improvements that hopefully we will see in the brand next year.
Okay great.
And if I could just sneak in a follow-up I know you said traffic has been a challenge.
What do you think I guess the traffic stronger at A&amp;F versus Hollister or what were your trends versus the mall? Yes.
I think we are commenting on obviously across U.S.
retail general mall traffic has been challenging.
I don’t think that’s not any breaking news.
That’s something we have certainly experienced as well.
And in general the improvement we have seen in our business has been from conversion rather than traffic.
So it’s important for us going forward to start to drive more robust traffic as Arthur alluded to in the opening comments.
Great thank you so much.
Our next question will come from Oliver Chen with Cowen &amp; Company.
Hi congrats on solid results.
We just wanted to ask you regarding the balance of the assortment between some of the attractive price point essentials versus novelty like how do you feel about the evolution of that? And also regarding the apparel execution I am just curious about how the integration has been amongst the categories as you become more and more of an outfitting kind of a whole picture destination? Just wanted your thoughts there.
Thank you.
Well like you say the balance of the assortment is an evolution.
It’s a continual process and it’s something that we change on a reactionary basis to what customers need.
Essentials is a very important part of the mix but so is more improved and higher design content product.
So all I can say really Oliver is something that’s a continual process.
From the Hollister perspective it’s part of our good-better-best pricing strategy and we are currently finding success both with our entry level with the must-haves as well as our fashion offerings.
So it’s been a nice balance between the two.
Okay.
And women’s tops is really impressive that you have had good momentum there what’s next for that category? And is this early innings of this positive response that you are seeing? And we too are encouraged by the positive response.
Clearly as we have discussed several times there conversion has been up significantly domestically and internationally which signals that the customer likes what we are putting out there.
And we would like to believe that that will continue.
Thank you.
Best regards.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We have time for one final question and that question will come from Lorraine Hutchinson with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Joanne just looking at where currency rates are today and also taking into account your hedging what kind of pressure do you expect on both the top line and the gross margin for next year? Yes Lorraine and some of that remains to be seen as we move through the quarter.
But what we can see today from a top line perspective we do see the FX pressure abating but still being a headwind.
So abating from what we have seen in the prior few quarters.
However as you mentioned the hedging benefits – we had larger hedging benefits last year in the fourth quarter as we were just stepping into these rate declines that we don’t expect to anniversary.
So on the margin line we expect the FX headwinds to be very consistent with what we have seen for the prior quarters but on the top line abating somewhat.
In the fourth quarter.
In the fourth quarter right.
And then as we move through next year when do you expect that margin headwinds to abate? There is obviously a big dependency on the exchange rates.
So based on – however we do have some hedging benefit that we experienced pretty much throughout the year this year that we will be up against next year.
So obviously very much dependent on where the currency rates and how they move through the year but we have a non-headwind on the hedging benefits from this year going into next year.
Thank you.
And that does conclude our question-and-answer session.
And that is all the time that we have for today’s conference call.
We thank you for your participation.
Okay.
Good job everybody.
Good day and welcome to the Abercrombie &amp; Fitch Fourth Quarter Fiscal Year 2015 Earnings Call.
Today’s conference is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Brian Logan.
Mr.
Logan please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to our fourth quarter earnings call.
Earlier this morning we released our fourth quarter sales and earnings income statement balance sheet store opening and closing summary and an updated financial history.
Please feel free to reference these materials which are available on our website.
Also available on our website is an investor presentation which we will be referring to in our comments during this call.
Today’s earnings call is being recorded and a replay may be accessed through the Internet at abercrombie.com under the Investors section.
Joining me today are Arthur Martinez Executive Chairman; Jonathan Ramsden Chief Operating Officer; Joanne Crevoiserat Chief Financial Officer; and Fran Horowitz President and Chief Merchandising Officer.
After our prepared remarks we will be available to take your questions for as long as time permits.
We ask you to please limit yourself to one question so that we can speak to as many callers as possible.
Before we begin I remind you that any forward-looking statements we may make today are subject to the Safe Harbor statements found in our SEC filings.
With that I hand the call over to Arthur for some opening remarks.
Thank you Brian and good morning everyone and thanks for being with us today.
Our steady improvement throughout the year culminated in a return to positive comp sales in the fourth quarter our first since Q3 of 2012.
That coupled with higher average unit retails drove higher gross margin and resulted in a meaningful improvement in adjusted operating income in constant currency for the quarter.
Inventory continues to be well managed and we generated strong free cash flow for the year.
These results achieved against the backdrop of a very challenging environment underscore the significant progress we made across all of our strategic initiatives throughout the year and continue to validate that we are on the right course.
During the year we continued to lay the foundation for future growth and profitability.
We completed our transition to a branded structure and strengthened our teams and core processes.
We measurably improved our customers’ experience both in-store and online.
We also took important steps in our evolution toward a better balanced and trend-right assortment.
This progress is the direct result of the hard work of our teams and I thank them for their efforts.
While we accomplished a lot we are far from done.
There's still much more work to do to maintain our momentum and realize the full potential of our brands particularly in our efforts to clearly define and convey our brand positioning.
While we have seen strong conversion gains through 2015 these refined brand positionings will be important in driving traffic.
As we look ahead to 2016 we expect market conditions to remain challenging.
But we believe our ongoing focus on delivering customer-centric shopping experiences and compelling assortments based on clearly defined brand positions will lead to continued improvements.
Our ongoing investment in direct to consumer and omni-channel and continued execution of our aggressive store closure program will also support our progress.
Now let me hand it over to Jonathan to provide additional comments regarding our strategic initiatives.
Thanks Arthur and good morning everyone.
As Arthur mentioned we were pleased to deliver solid results in the fourth quarter in what remains a difficult environment.
Our comp sales metric turned positive during the quarter for the first time since 2012 and we delivered meaningful adjusted EBIT growth on a constant currency basis for the third consecutive quarter.
A particular note and as reflected in the charts on pages 6 and 7 of our investor presentation we achieved sequential quarterly comp sales trend improvement across all brands and geographies throughout the year.
Our improved results reflect strong progress across our six strategic areas of focus which as you know include being customer-centric developing compelling and differentiated assortments defining clear positioning for our brands optimizing our brand reach and channel performance continuing to improve efficiency and reduce expense and ensuring we are organized to win.
Customer centricity means putting the customer at the center of everything we do.
During 2015 we made numerous changes to make shopping experience for our customer easier faster and more engaging.
In our stores these changes included giving more autonomy to our store management teams so they can be more responsive to their customers.
They also included changes to the in-store experience such as improved lighting and shorter lines.
In addition we rolled out a new Hollister prototype store which is performing very well with traffic and sales up double digits relative to the control group.
We will continue this rollout in 2016.
On the digital side we continued to enhance our mobile capabilities with improved site design and upgraded apps.
Mobile now accounts for over 60% of all online traffic and nearly 40% of direct to consumer revenue and continues to experience double-digit increases in year-over-year conversion rates.
And our omni-channel investments continue to enhance our ability to serve our customers’ needs in a seamless manner.
Important milestones in the year included expanding ship from store to another 290 stores in the US and activating click-and-collect and online returns to store in the UK.
In 2016 we will continue to invest in digital to improve the customer experience including the rollout of omni-channel capabilities outside the US.
During 2015 we rolled out a number of new tools to enable us to track how our customer is responding to changes in our store experience and merchandise assortment.
It’s early days for us with these tools but in the meantime the strong conversion gains we saw across channels and geographies validate that many of our customer-focused initiatives are gaining traction.
Our efforts to enhance and optimize our brand reach also saw some notable milestones in 2015.
We opened 6 new stores in China including 3 mall-based A&amp;F stores.
Combined with strong e-commerce business Greater China is now our fourth largest market by sales volume.
We opened our first refranchise stores in Mexico and grew our wholesale business with ASOS and Next to $10 million in revenue.
In addition we launched Fierce in Sephora stores and in select duty-free shops throughout our partnership with Inter Parfums.
Meanwhile we continue to right-size our US store fleet with 55 closures during the year bringing our cumulative closures to approximately 340 stores or about a third of the fleet the over the past six years.
Importantly we do not view these closures as a defensive move but as a proactive one to ensure that we’re properly positioned to respond to the dramatic changes on how our customer chooses to shop.
In a similar vein we opened 9 new outlet stores and converted 8 stores to MFO merchandise during the year.
Our strategy in outlets will continue to be measured responding to customer demand in this channel while ensuring an appropriate balance between full price and outlet stores.
We continue to build our organization by hiring talented and experienced new leaders across many areas of the company while promoting members of our existing teams to new positions of leadership.
We continue to enhance internal accountability and coupled that with spending more time communicating to and hearing back from our associates.
Hand in hand with our efforts on continuous profit improvement we made excellent progress on sustainability during the year through numerous initiatives in our stores and at our home office campus.
In addition we were pleased to expand our partnership with World Vision’s Gifts in Kind program to donate merchandise in developing countries and launched a new partnership with Blue Jeans Go Green to recycle worn denim into home insulation.
Overall our progress for 2015 is the result of the hard work and dedication of our talented associates across the organization.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank them all for those efforts.
With that I will hand it over to Joanne Crevoiserat to go over our fourth quarter results.
Thanks Jonathan and good morning everyone.
As Jonathan mentioned and also evident in our financial results the fourth quarter reflects a continued improvement on many fronts as our strategic efforts continued to gain traction.
Recapping results for the quarter starting with sales.
Net sales for the quarter were $1.113 billion up 2% from last year on a constant currency basis.
Foreign currency was a continued headwind during the quarter and adversely impacted sales by approximately 3 percentage points or $29 million.
Total comp sales were up 1% for the quarter reflecting continued sequential comp improvement by both brand and geography.
As shown on Page 6 of the investor presentation by brand comp sales for the quarter were down 2% for Abercrombie and up 4% for Hollister.
By category we continued to see strengths in our female tops business where comps remained solidly positive.
And while overall male business lagged female the male comp trend continues to move in the right direction particularly in tops.
For the quarter dresses accessories and sleepwear also performed well while cold-weather categories at outerwear and sweaters underperformed.
By geography comp sales for the quarter were down 1% in the US and up 6% in international markets.
We continue to see considerable improvement in international markets.
In Europe we saw an acceleration in comp growth driven by the UK and Germany where business was very strong throughout the quarter.
In Asia comps were positive driven by strong performance in China.
Across brands the direct to consumer and omni-channel business for the quarter grew to approximately 28% of total sales compared to 27% of total sales last year with growth in both US and international markets.
Recapping the rest of our results for the quarter on an adjusted non-GAAP basis which includes items detailed on Page 5 of our investor presentation.
Gross margin was 60.7% 100 basis points higher than last year on a constant currency basis.
And gross margin growth exceeded our expectations coming into the quarter and was driven by higher average unit retail in the US as improved assortments drove higher full price selling and a reduction in promotional activity.
Stores and distribution expense decreased $11 million from last year due to benefits from foreign currency as well as the expense reduction efforts partially offset by direct to consumer expense.
Marketing general and administrative expense increased $11 million from last year primarily due to higher compensation related expense including severance charges.
And as Jonathan mentioned we delivered operating income growth for the quarter on an FX neutral basis.
Adjusted operating income was $121 million up 8% from last year on a constant currency basis.
The negative impact from FX on operating income for the quarter was approximately $20 million.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 36%.
Net income per diluted share was $1.08 compared to $1.15 last year and included a negative year-over-year impact from FX of approximately $0.23.
Recapping our full-year results net sales were $3.519 billion compared to $3.744 billion last year and included adverse effects from FX of approximately $153 million.
In addition full-year adjusted operating income was $136 million up 6% versus last year on a constant currency basis.
The year-over-year adverse effects from FX on operating income was approximately $63 million.
The negative impact from FX was primarily driven by the weakening euro as well as the British pound and Canadian dollar as reflected on Page 9 of the investor presentation.
Turning to the balance sheet.
We ended the quarter with $589 million in cash and cash equivalents and gross borrowings outstanding of $293 million compared to $521 million in cash and cash equivalents and $299 million in borrowing last year.
We also ended the quarter with total inventory down 5% compared to last year reflecting our ongoing discipline in this area.
Details of our store openings for the quarter are included on Page 13 of the investor presentation.
At the end of the quarter we operated 754 stores in the US and 178 stores in Canada Europe Asia and the Middle East.
With regard to our outlook for fiscal 2016 we expect flat to slightly positive comparable sales continued headwinds from foreign currency with expected adverse effects on sales of approximately $50 million.
We expect this along with the temporary closure of Hollister stores for remodel to have a disproportionate adverse impact on the second quarter a gross margin rate approximately flat to last year’s adjusted non-GAAP rate of 61.9% but up on a constant currency basis with average unit cost expected to be up modestly in the first half and down in the second half of the year slight leverage in operating expense relative to last year's adjusted non-GAAP rate of 58.3% but with some deleverage in the second quarter related to timing of marketing and other strategic investments.
We expect operating income growth over last year on adjusted non-GAAP basis more than offsetting the expected $30 million adverse impact from FX.
And as a reminder the effect from foreign currency is determined by applying fiscal 2016 forecasted rates to fiscal 2015 results and is net of the year-over-year impact from hedging.
We expect an effective tax rate in the mid to upper 30s and a weighted average diluted share count of approximately 68 million shares excluding the effect of potential share buyback.
Excluded from our full-year outlook are potential charges such as those related to impairment store closings and our strategic initiatives.
We are targeting capital expenditures in the range of $150 million to $175 million for the full year which include approximately $70 million for new stores and store updates and continued significant investment of approximately $70 million in direct to consumer omni-channel and IT to support growth and profit improvement initiatives.
In 2016 we expect to complete approximately 60 Hollister store interior remodels through the course of the year with the majority to be completed by the end of the second quarter.
We also plan to open approximately 15 full priced stores including 10 in international markets primarily China and 5 in the US.
And we plan to open approximately 10 new outlet stores primarily in the US.
In addition we anticipate closing approximately 60 stores in the US during 2016 through natural lease expiration.
I’ll now hand it over to Fran to provide more color around brand performance and strategic initiatives.
Fran? Thank you Joanne and good morning everyone.
First of all I am very excited about the potential of both Abercrombie and Hollister brands and I look forward to working with the team in both organizations.
Both brands made important progress during 2015.
This was the result of the hard work and dedication of each of our team and our enthusiastic focus on delivering for our customers.
As you’ve heard from Arthur and Jonathan our comps saw that our customers have responded well to the work we have done to evolve our offerings and improve their shopping experience.
My goal for 2016 is to build on the success of Hollister and accelerate our recovery at Abercrombie which has been slower than we would have liked.
We believe our continued progress will be fuelled among other things by the launch of new brand positioning for both Abercrombie and Hollister.
In an intensive effort over the past six months we’ve mapped out our core belief and conviction to drive each brand and the DNA of the brands that supports those beliefs and convictions.
We are now working on a communication strategy surrounding these brand positionings and expect that to roll out over the course of this year.
Moving back to a review of our 2015 performance.
We were encouraged by a return to positive comp growth in the fourth quarter and that inventory was well managed.
For Hollister comp sales were up 4% for the quarter continuing the trend of sequential quarterly comp sales improvement.
By geography Hollister again delivered positive comp sales in each of our key volume regions of the US Europe and China.
In the US we were able to drive positive comps while generating higher AUR as we continued to reduce our promotional depth and frequency.
In Europe comps were particularly strong over the Black Friday weekend and in China we continued to see solid growth particularly online.
By category Hollister continued to see the greatest strength in the girls’ tops business driven by ongoing strengths in layering and shirting.
Girls’ accessories and dresses also performed well while sweaters were weak.
On the guys side we achieved sequential comp improvement from the third quarter driven by strength in our overall tops business.
In addition denim and sweatpants remained strong while outerwear graphic Ts and pants were weak.
Hollister’s improvements reflected a re-dedication to our customers.
We simplified the in-store shopping experience with changes in props lighting scents and sound.
We implemented new store manager training and incentive program and empowered the team with improved tools and autonomy to drive greater accountability and customer engagement at the store level.
We set a simplified global pricing and promotional model that appropriately positions the brand versus key regional competitors.
We developed and tested a fully redesigned store prototype and plan to roll out the new design to about 60 additional Hollister stores for this year with additional stores under consideration.
We launched new mobile apps to improve our digital experience.
We worked with our key social media partners to drive innovative customer engagement which included Hollister becoming the first retailer to offer a sponsored geo-filter with SnapChat and being ranked number one retailer on Instagram as published in Adweek.
We piloted our Club Cali Loyalty program in several markets across the country which has proved to be successful in driving higher customer identification retention and sales as a result a US rollout plan for 2016.
We were so thrilled to continue our efforts to raise awareness around anti-bullying with Hollister’s partnership with Echosmith during the year.
In addition we implemented significant changes to core processes for the Hollister brand and improved the overall quality content and esthetic of our assortment.
And we built a global assortment that strikes balance between fashion quality value and strengthened our teams senior level hires across multiple functions.
The Abercrombie brand also delivered sequential comp improvement for the fourth quarter with positive comps in A&amp;F women and international.
By geography Abercrombie continued to generate comp improvement across each of North America Europe and Asia which included positive comp in Canada the UK and China.
By category we saw strength in our A&amp;F women’s business which turned positive for the quarter and was driven by the tops business.
Female dresses accessories and sleepwear categories also performed well while outerwear and bottoms under performed.
In A&amp;F male tops continued to underperform but were encouraged by the sequential improvement from third quarter.
Bottoms also continued to be a better performer while outerwear was weak.
Similar to Hollister Abercrombie also took several steps to improve the customer experience such as rolling out new incentive and training programs making changes to the store experience.
On the digital side we enhanced our customer experience with greater focus on lifestyle marketing on-figure product presentations seamless shopping and app development.
With regard to evolving the assortment we augmented the Abercrombie team with key hires including new design leads for each men and women.
We are excited by the work they are doing with the teams and look forward to delivering their new products over the course of the year.
In addition we executed the rollout of the extended sizes for younger ages in our kids business.
Our entire online assortment and half of our in-store assortment is now available in sizes for children aged three to six.
We also have 35 [ph] stores where we have a combined kids merchandise and the A&amp;F adult store.
Results have been positive in both new customer acquisition and average transaction value.
During 2016 we will continue building the leadership talent for both brands with the appointment of brand president.
The brand presidents will each have the privilege of leading an iconic brand and working every day with a talented group of people.
I would like to thank all of our team for their energy enthusiasm and eagerness and for their dedication to moving our brand forward in the coming year.
And with that I will turn it back to Brian.
Thanks Fran.
This concludes our prepared comments.
At this time we will be happy to take your questions.
As a reminder please limit yourself to one question so we can speak to as many of you as possible.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] We’ll take our first question from Anna Andreeva with Oppenheimer.
Thanks so much.
Congrats guys to a great finish to the year [technical difficulty] by quarter I think Joanne you mentioned the bulk of remodel activity at Hollister expected in 2Q and maybe you guys could talk about what are you seeing across the business this quarter to date? Some of your competitors have called out better weather so far in February.
Thanks so much.
In terms of sales cadence across the quarters we won’t comment on our current quarter business it’s not our practice to do that.
Related to our outlook the top line sales will be affected I think I mentioned by FX not impacting comp but the top line will be impacted by FX.
We see FX throughout the year – headwind throughout the year with the biggest headwind in the second quarter and Q1 and Q3 about even and much less of a headwind in Q4.
So from a top line perspective that’s the FX impact.
On a comp perspective we do expect to remodel and reopen most of the Hollister remodels in the second quarter for back to school and they will be closed for a period of time during the remodel and that will put a little bit of pressure on the comp and the top line sales in Q2.
Next we go to Randy Konik with Jefferies.
Thanks a lot.
I guess a question for Jonathan.
Can we just kind of think about what’s the margin recapture opportunity from your perspective? The four-wall margins of international are higher than the US but obviously all the margins across the globe have come down.
If we kind of back out the FX impact potentially on that just trying to get a sense of where the margin recapture story could go? Recognizing people try to look at your company relative to others in the space and where their margins are so just curious there.
And just one for Fran if possible.
Now that you are President of the business and looking across both brands can you just give us some perspective on some of the processes at Hollister that you implemented that you didn't see at Abercrombie division that you are potentially implementing and how you see the differences that need to be in the two businesses or no differences as it relates to pricing architecture logo penetration and product focus? Randy let me start with a little context on future margin opportunity.
First of all I think to the point in your question it’s really important to back out FX in terms of getting a real look on what happened in ’15 and what we are projecting to happen in ’16.
We are projecting ’16 to have gross margin rate enhancement on a constant currency basis and that’s an opportunity we think will continue to exist going forward.
It is likely to be an important part of our overall margin recovery story.
And we also think on an FX neutral basis again we can get some expense leverage in 2016 and we can continue to do that going forward particularly if we can maintain momentum on the comp line.
So I think sitting here today we’re not in a position to give a longer term outlook but we do believe we will continue to make progress on those two key levers of our margin rate structure in 2016 and we believe there’s certainly further opportunity beyond that.
Hi Randy let’s see where shall we start? As far as each brand is concerned they will be positioned a bit differently as we move forward.
And as I mentioned we are currently working on defining what those brand positions are and we look forward to sharing that as the year unfolds.
From a process perspective yes there are some processes that we implemented in Hollister that we will be applying to the Abercrombie brand.
As far as the pricing architecture goes it will be in lockstep with how we define each of the brand.
Next we’ll go to Lorraine Hutchinson with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Joanne could you talk about the key factors that will offset the $30 million of FX pressure on EBIT? Are there a lot more costs to cut at this point and sort of how do you expect to get that operating expense leverage in 2016? From an operating expense perspective we do expect leverage partially – we’ve had a lot of success in our past driven by profit improvement initiatives as you know $250 million of expense came out of our base.
We have continued with our continuous profit improvement initiative finding and implementing efficiency ideas and expense saving ideas that allow us to invest back into the business.
The big puts and takes on OpEx in 2016 include FX – some FX benefits also include an expectation for continuous profit improvement and expense efficiencies but also we’re looking at investing back into the business in key areas to drive our growth like DTC and marketing to support the brand positioning.
Next we’ll go to Dorothy Lakner with Topeka Capital Markets.
Thanks everyone and good morning.
Just wondered if you could share with us what backgrounds you found in the new design leadership at A&amp;F what you were looking for there? And also what you would be looking for in new brand presidents and if you could share a bit about how you are thinking about brand positioning? To start with regarding the brand presidents we’re looking for leadership – retail leadership with a pretty broad experience and both merchandising stores and bottom line accountability.
Regarding our new talent and leadership I guess particularly if you’re asking in Abercrombie we were looking for leaders who could appreciate sort of the heritage of the brand as well as bring us a new modern take on it.
And I believe that is where they are headed.
As far as the brand positioning goes we’re actually not ready to share it at this point but we will as the year unfolds.
Next we’ll go to Adrienne Yih with Wolfe Research.
This is actually Cody on for Adrienne this morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
Can you guys just discuss the inventory position that you guys have for Q1 and the first half of this year? And just remind us of what the impact and timing if any impact from the port delays last year were on 1Q and 2Q? We have managed inventory very very well throughout 2015 and had shown inventory reductions every quarter through 2015.
We expect to continue to show discipline in managing inventory.
I expect inventory to be down as we manage through 2016 and showing improvement in overall inventory turn.
The impact of the port delays last year we actually had less of an impact I think than some of our peers and our teams did a very nice job managing around that so that there is not a big timing difference year over year.
Next we’ll go to Matthew Boss with JPMorgan.
Congrats on a great quarter.
So if we walk through the capital allocation priorities for 2016 and beyond I think that would be really helpful.
I guess any investments that we need to consider to support the return to positive comps.
And then just the best way to think about any potential capital investments versus just thinking about a return to share repurchase over time? Yes Matt this is Joanne.
Our capital allocation philosophy hasn’t changed.
And as you know our first priority is to invest back into the business on investments that have the highest risk adjusted return and we maintain a very disciplined approach around that.
I think our CapEx outlook for 2016 at $150 million to $175 million we are positioning our capital to work for us both in store expansion of new stores as well as supporting ongoing remodels and some of the investments that we see providing a return so the Hollister remodel would be an example of that and we plan to roll that out to 60 stores in 2016.
Additionally we are stepping up our funding behind the DTC effort we continue to see that as a growth area for our business and had success with the investments we made to date and continue to put our capital behind DTC omni-channel and IT.
As it relates to the balance of our capital allocation philosophy we still anticipate returning as a second priority cash back to shareholders through dividend and share repurchases and that is conversation and those are actions that we evaluate quarterly based on share price valuation and liquidity and it’s also the subject of discussion every quarter at our board meetings.
Next we’ll go to Betty Chen with Mizuho Securities.
Good morning everyone.
Congrats on the nice progress.
I was wondering if you can talk a little bit about the bottoms business at both Hollister and A&amp;F.
I think in the past you cited denim to be a very strong category for you.
Any changes in the fourth quarter any new silhouette or washes that might get you excited about denim or other bottoms in 2016? And then when should we expect the men's business which showed some improvement in Q4 to kind of -- how should we expect that business to kind of progress in the year? Sure.
Hey Betty it’s Fran.
To start out with the bottoms business we were pleased actually in both brands for the year with our denim business.
We’ve also seen the bottoms business diversify into things such as the fleece business and joggers and that continues.
Stretch was a whole new category for us in our denim for the year and that certainly continues as we move forward.
As far as the men’s business is concerned we were happy to see that progress obviously from third quarter fourth quarter and our goal and our intent is to continue to see improvement over the course of the year.
In terms of the new design leads Fran when should we expect to see their influences hit the stores? It’s a gradual evolution Betty.
[Aaron] has been here little hit longer than Christina in the women’s business so you will start to see that probably in the back half of second quarter.
But over the course of the year you will see it evolving.
Our next question comes from Neely Tamminga with Piper Jaffray.
This is actually Kayla Wesser on for Neely.
I was just wondering if you guys could talk a little bit more about international pricing initial pricing UK at both brands? It looks like maybe you guys have taken up the initial pricing.
Is that accurate and why is that? No Kayla that’s correct.
We were pricing about a year ago and that was an effect for pretty much all of 2015.
So you might be seeing individual items where you’re seeing a difference but broadly the ticket strategy the Hollister has been relatively consistent over the past year and it’s been a bit of an evolution in A&amp;F but I would say not dramatic over the course of ’15.
Just to underscore that we stared the pricing strategy for Hollister in the first half of the year with certain categories about the time we got to back to school it was the complete repositioning which has been very successful for us.
Now we’ll go to Simeon Siegel with Nomura Securities.
Thanks.
Good morning and congrats on the improvement.
So given the improvement at Hollister can you speak to the profitability of both concepts? How does the Hollister EBIT rate compare to Abercrombie and maybe any color on where both are versus their historical peaks? We typically don’t Simeon give a lot of color on that.
I think our four-wall margins in Europe still remain significantly above the US which going back to Randy Konik’s question earlier we think there’s certainly opportunity in the US to get the margins up.
There is a bit of a difference domestically and internationally between the two brands which we historically haven’t got into a lot of color on.
But international margins have come down over time partly because of the impact of taking price down that we spoke to a second ago but as Fran said we saw a nice response to that in terms of the top line which has led us to conclude that that was certainly the right move to make.
But those international margins still remain a very healthy we have a very high proportion of our stores which operate a healthy four-wall EBITDA margins so January is still a very healthy fleet and the new stores we are opening in China and the Middle East are continuing to do very well in terms of profitability.
The US – as you know from when we used to report it a couple of years back has had structurally lower four-wall margins for some time but we do believe there is opportunity to improve those margins going forward.
Sorry if I missed it but have you said what percent of Q4 sales are generally generated by outerwear? I don’t think we’ve ever been that specific.
Next we’ll go to Oliver Chen with Cowen and Company.
It sounds like you have become a lot more customer centric and focused.
I am just curious about the comment on the tools to measure how customers may be responding to change.
Do you have a hypothesis about what you are looking for here and any early examples of how that may impact? And on the autonomy with the store management teams could you just give us color for the nature of the freedom they are given to help drive comps and margins? And just on omnichannel omnichannel sounds like a really nice percentage of mix.
Are you feeling like there is a new chapter in terms of that aiding you and driving traffic to the store? So let me start with a couple of those Oliver.
In terms of the tools we have we have a number of new tools we’ve rolled out.
I don’t think that we are really looking for in terms of what the outcome of those tools is.
What we are looking for is to get a good read on how our customer is reacting when they come into the store are they having a positive shopping experience are they feeling positive about the brand when they leave the store and obviously the same applies online.
So it’s some customer satisfaction measures it’s an overall brand sentiment measures that we’re now just going to be in a much more robust position to track going forward.
Since we rolled out some of those tools relatively recently we don’t have a long enough data period yet reporting on them but they are important to us internally so that we can get a clear sense of how our customer is reacting and give us evidence that we are making progress in improving customer experience customer satisfaction and brand sentiment over time.
In terms of the example of the autonomy at the store level I think we talked about that a little bit in prior earnings calls.
Yes we’ve given greater autonomy to store managers to move placements within the store they see something that’s doing particularly well in their local store is an example – is the types of things that have influence on today that there was less the case in the past.
So that would just be one example.
And then in terms of omnichannel could you just maybe recap your question there please? I am just curious -- as you become what is the message for becoming more customer centric online in terms of what you may need to do next? And also will you enable this to be a material driver of helping drive traffic into your stores kind of leveraging the whole ecosystem? Is there personalization ahead mobile? Well it’s important to know that our DTC and omnichannel business is already a very high percentage we were up to 28% in the fourth quarter so we’re very highly penetrated there.
It’s also a major area of focus for us from an investment standpoint a lot of our CapEx dollars over the past couple of years have been going towards omnichannel and IT investments mobile investments to really make that customer experience when they are online on their phone very positive and over time more and more seamless would be in-store experience.
So we believe that’s a critical component of our long term strategy.
We’re going to continue to invest in it.
Specifically we’re going to -- going forward we’re not ready to talk about today other than the ones we’ve already spoken to.
But as we said in the prepared remarks we will be rolling out omnichannel capabilities beyond the US increasingly but overall I would just underscore this is a critical area of focus for us and we think we’ve come a long way and have been very successful here but we have a big opportunity ahead of us to keep that going.
Next we’ll go to Lindsay Drucker Mann with Goldman Sachs.
I wanted to follow up on the Hollister remodels and just could you confirm -- I think that as of the last quarter you said that you had 15 remodels between the US and Europe.
How many did you end the year with? And as you talk about the 60 for next year what’s the balance in US and Europe? How do we think about the CapEx that you said is going to be going to brick and mortar? How much of that is towards remodel versus store openings? And any difference in terms of -- you talked about the nice double-digit improvement in sales and traffic versus the control group for your remodeled stores.
Is that about the same in US versus Europe? Just any additional color there would be great.
Thank you.
Yes I would say broadly speaking your numbers are right.
We had a little more than a dozens – we had little more than a dozen stores that we fully remodeled on the interior.
We have seen strong returns from those double digit as you mentioned traffic lifts versus the control group as well as sales lifts and we’re seeing that consistently and it goes give us confidence to continue the rollout and the rollout for 2016 is 60 stores I think that’s a testament that CapEx split – I don’t have the dollar numbers specifically but we do plan to open 15 new stores and 10 outlet stores so that’s the portion that will be brick and mortar if you will and then the balance would be going to remodels.
Is there any news on an Abercrombie store prototype? Yes we’re in the beginning process of that.
We’re looking forward to rolling that out by the end of this year.
Next we’ll go to Brian Tunick with RBC Capital Markets.
Thanks and congrats on the progress as well.
It sounds like you are evolving towards being a global brand more so from just a retailer.
So curious what do you think the ultimate size of your store base should look like and how big could Amazon and Next and ASOS be over time? How many franchise locations can you have? What does your fragrance license impact look like? When does that start to hit the P&amp;L? Just sort of what does the business look like bigger picture a couple of years from now as you evolve toward that global brand? And then a second question just shorter-term just on some of the AUC comments we are trying to understand what’s happening out there.
Other retailers are calling out the cotton improvement in the first half and it doesn't sound like you guys are going to see that.
Thanks very much.
Brian we’re going to divide those up so I will start with the first couple – in terms of store closures we have been closing 50 60 a year for several years yes we closed over a third of the fleet as we alluded to in the prepared comments.
We broadly see in the US that trajectory continuing with a fairly healthy amount of closures in the next few years.
I don’t think we’ve ever been ready to say there is a final store count number because it’s clearly going to depend on other factors including in our ability to drive improvements and productivity over time that would leave us to keep some stores open.
Internationally yes we’ve had a couple stores we closed but generally speaking as we alluded to earlier the profitability profile the international piece is very strong and we expect to continue to add stores internationally albeit at a somewhat slower pace than where we were two or three years ago and focus on a couple of core markets like China and the Middle East.
In terms of some of the other revenue streams your question gets at in our evolution from selling exclusive through our own channels to bringing in some other channels such as wholesale.
It’s very early days for us we really only got going on that about 18 months ago we talked about the Next and ASOS business being 10 million and 15 million which is fairly modest in absolute terms but we do think there’s a lot of potential there it’s something we’re looking at very closely strategically we’re testing our way into it both from a franchising and wholesaling standpoint [indiscernible] licensing arrangement with Inter Parfums and we do think it’s a significant area of opportunity for us going forward.
We’re just not ready today to quantify how significant that can be.
Hi Brian as we mentioned we will have a relatively different story in the first half and the second half of the year regarding AUC.
In the first half of the year we’re reinvesting in the products we will be benefitting from some of the macro opportunities but since we are reinvesting in the quality as we have not left that as we have in the second half we will see a slight increase and as we get into the second half of the year where we did reinvest in the product we do have some macro opportunities on certainly like for like products to have an AUC reduction so we will have an overall slight reduction in the second half of the year.
Our next question comes from Janet Kloppenburg with JJK Research.
Good morning everyone.
Congratulations on a nice quarter.
I had a couple of questions.
First Fran I understand what you are saying about the comps for the second quarter because of Hollister.
But I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about why your comp guidance appears so conservative in light of the momentum that you have built in the third and the fourth quarter.
And secondly Fran I wondered if you could talk about the categories that you thought could be the greatest opportunity for both Hollister and Abercrombie this year as we look forward and when we might see some of those brand repositioning initiatives that you talked about earlier? Hi Janet it’s Joanne.
I will jump in on our overall comp guidance for the year.
We believe our comp guidance is realistic and certainly given the conditions in the market we don’t feel any need to be more bullish at this point.
And is there something going on in terms of inventory or discipline there that might hold back comps? No we continue to feel very good about our inventory management and if anything expect that our inventory management to continue to improve as we roll out more improved processes across the chain.
So inventory is certainly not a constraint it’s been well managed and we expect to continue to be well managed as we move forward.
Okay to start off with – which questions – the categories.
We expect to see Janet in the women’s business both women’s and girls’ business a continuation of our momentum in tops.
And our goal is obviously to get that momentum going in the men’s and guys business so that’s our focus for the first half of the year.
Regarding our brand positioning I think we talked about a little bit but we have really established our core beliefs and convictions and we are working on an internal communication of that over the next several months.
And I think you will see that in the back half of the year certainly it’s not going to be a light switch that we have out there but it’s going to be an evolution in how we approach our customer.
And our next question will come from Kimberly Greenberger with Morgan Stanley.
Fran I appreciate that you are not ready to share in this forum the sort of esthetic or the brand tenets that you would expect will ultimately embody both of your brands.
But I am wondering what aspects of the prior brand position in both Abercrombie and Hollister did your customer research show were no longer resonating -- and the guide the new brand position? And then just one clarification for Joanne.
Joanne it looked like you had about a $42 million increase in accounts payable with inventory down $24 million.
Maybe you could just talk about why inventory is going one direction and accounts payable is going the other? Thanks so much.
Kimberly I will start.
At this point we’re really not ready to share due to competitive reasons sort of what did and didn’t resonate with our customer but we do have some customer research that we’ve done around the world to help us solidify where both brands are going.
They clearly will both have some heritage associated with them and they will also have a new modern take.
Kimberly regarding the question around AP and inventory the accounts payable balance reflects actions that we did take this year to extend terms with our suppliers.
We also made available to them a supply chain financing platform and that’s primarily what unlocked the AP increase.
And Joanne when do you lap that change in terms? I believe we rolled it out late second quarter in 2015 so it began in late second quarter I think fully implemented by third quarter.
Now we’ll go to John Morris with BMO Capital.
A couple of quick ones.
Asked a lot about the new format program at Hollister.
I am wondering Jonathan if you can tell us what the potential is longer-term? Are most of those Hollister stores or all of them remaining candidates for the remodel? And then on the closings that you guys have achieved so far really nice work on that.
Can you update us longer-term are you the bulk of the way through that program or do you see more opportunity ahead? And if so how much how many leases coming up et cetera? And then just finally on the autonomy that you are giving at the store level to some of the managers is that essentially happening that kind of autonomy that you are giving out there at both divisions both Abercrombie and Hollister and is it pretty much across both fleets? I am going to let Joanne take the first part and then I will come back.
Regarding the Hollister remodels all stores in the fleet – all Hollister stores in the fleet are candidates for remodels we’d like to see less rollout broadly across the chain.
There are definitely considerations including lease terms and lease re-negotiations that we’re taking into account as well as the expected return we’re going to get in every location.
So we’re reviewing each remodel decision on a case by case basis with the goal of rolling it out broadly across the fleet.
On the second part John about store closures we continue to look at that on an annual basis.
As we said a couple minutes ago we have been closing 50 60 a year for several years we closed over a third of the fleet.
We’re not ready today to say what that ultimate store count number is but to part – what you said in your question we do have a lot of flexibility we have a high proportion of our leases coming up for renewal in the next two or three years so we have significant room to maneuver that.
But importantly I think as we said in the prepared remarks we think what we have done on store closures has been not a defensive move but a proactive move to reflect the reality of how our customer is increasingly shopping over time and again with 28% of our business in the fourth quarter coming through DTC omnichannel part of the corollary of that is reducing our store footprint over time.
John to answer your question on the store autonomy in both brands yes that is something that we paralleled last year between both brands to roll out to our store management.
I'm sure you remember in the recent past we focused more on the way our stores are presented rather than on the brand – on the business driving piece of it so they have been given tools to understand and read their businesses.
I’ve had an opportunity over the past year to visit many of our stores and it’s certainly a work in progress and we’ve made a lot of progress on it and that will continue as we move forward.
Our next question comes from Susan Anderson with FBR.
I was wondering if maybe you could give some color on the sales retention rate that you guys have seen from the closed stores in the US? Have you seen a lot of those sales moving to other stores or online? And then just a follow-up on the gross margin guidance for the year so expected to be up a bit when you exclude FX.
I guess is there anything changing from fourth quarter which seemed like a pretty good performance in terms of the puts and takes there? Hi Susan this is Joanne.
On the retention rate from closed stores it really varies depending on the markets in which we closed.
We don’t see typically a lot of transfer to other stores mainly due to the fact that they are not necessarily close to other stores so that that has a bearing on it.
We do see some migration post closing online but it’s minimal.
I think what we’re seeing more is the move to online has been happening and continues to happen and as we close these stores from an EBIT perspective we’re driving productivity overall in the fleet.
Related to our gross margin guidance for 2016 there are lot of puts and takes on gross margin in 2016.
Although the AUC is up modestly in the first half it’s down in the second half we expect it to be down for the year slightly.
On the AUR front a lot of puts and takes there so FX is a headwind on AUR but we expect continued AUR benefit both from inventory management activity as well as better selling at reg price and our ability to step away from promotional activity during the year.
So a number of puts and takes on gross margin that drive the guidance back to flat.
Next we’ll go to Paul Lejuez with Citigroup.
Can you talk a little bit more about the outlet channel? Just remind us how many stores you have.
Can you maybe share the performance of those stores versus your mall fleet? And then second just wondering if in any of your regions or concepts if there were any traffic bright spots is there any place where traffic is actually up at the store level? On the outlet question Paul we typically don’t break out the comp performance of outlets.
I think the important point there is we’re evolving to MFO we opened a number of new MFO stores for A&amp;F this year we convert another number.
The significant impact of that is to drive the gross margin on the profitability up in those stores.
It’s a little bit hard to read the comp frankly because you’re converting from one model to a somewhat different model and we historically haven’t broken that out.
Overall outlet it’s a fairly meaningful piece of our business now.
We have around 60 stores in total and as I said we don’t break out the comp performance of the outlet stores.
In terms of the traffic bright spots by the region I think that’s something we typically haven’t broken out.
Overall I’d say across the business the theme of the year was that traffic was more challenging whereas conversion was pretty strong across channels and geographies.
And how about as you look forward when you think about your comp guidance is that expected to be – what’s the unit play between traffic and conversion or maybe transactions versus ticket? We don’t break down our comp expectations at that level but overall I think given the current environment we expect to continue to drive strong conversion and many of our efforts are focused there.
We also have – are working on brand positioning to better communicate with our brand story and try and move that traffic number the traffic has been a headwind I think in the industry.
So we have a realistic expectation around traffic we expect continued improvements and continued strength in conversion and as we mentioned earlier driving AUR up slightly modestly based on our ability to step away from promotional activity and with the customers’ response to our product offerings.
And we’ll take our last question from Dana Telsey with Telsey Advisory Group.
Okay.
Moving on we’ll take our last question from Omar Saad with Evercore ISI.
I guess my one question I would like to get some more detail and information on the wholesale.
I know it’s a tiny business but you mentioned it in your prepared remarks.
I think $10 million mostly ASOS and I think you said Next.
But you also mentioned the fragrance going into Sephora.
Like help me understand how your thinking has evolved around the idea of wholesale which is obviously something historically the company has not been involved in? And are there further opportunities in the US especially to think about the wholesale channel as an opportunity for the brand? Thanks.
Yes we said Omar $10 million of wholesale revenue which is with Next and ASOS specifically that didn’t include the licensing or franchising which are separate initiatives we spoke to.
It’s early days for us we’ve been establishing our sort of technical capabilities to execute on wholesale and learning with these first two partners we’ve had in place.
But as we said early on we do regard this as being a potentially significant area of opportunity for us going forward as we do with regard to franchising and licensing.
Fairly early days but we think over time those three could all be pretty significant.
End of Q&amp;A And that does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you all for your participation.