Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
My name is Kristen and I'll be your conference operator today.
I would like to welcome everyone to the Gap Inc.
First Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to introduce your host Mark Webb Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon everyone.
Welcome to Gap Inc.'s First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
For those of you participating in the webcast please turn to Slides 2 and 3.
I'd like to remind you that the information made available on this webcast and conference call contains forward-looking statements.
For information on factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements as well as reconciliations of measures we are required to reconcile to GAAP financial measures please refer to today's press release as well as our most recent annual report on Form 10-K both of which are available on gapinc.com.
These forward-looking statements are based on information as of May 19 2011 and we assume no obligation to publicly update or revise our forward-looking statements.
Joining us on the call today are Chairman and CEO Glenn Murphy; and Executive Vice President and CFO Sabrina Simmons.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Sabrina.
Thank you Mark.
Good afternoon everyone.
In the face of a challenging quarter we continue to focus on levers that drive long-term value.
On the balance sheet and capital structure plan we repurchased 25 million shares during the quarter and we raised $1.65 billion of debt providing us the flexibility to deliver additional cash to shareholders.
On the operating side we continue to drive forward on our long-term growth initiatives while maintaining expense discipline and delivering operating expenses below the prior year.
Please turn to Slide 4 for our earnings recap.
In the first quarter net income was $233 million down 23% and EPS was $0.40 per share versus $0.45 last year.
Turning to Slide 5.
First quarter net sales were down 1% to $3.3 billion and this includes the impact of the events in Japan.
Comparable store sales were down 3%.
Online sales grew 18% overall and had a positive impact of 2 points on comp sales in the first quarter.
Total sales and comps by division are listed in today's press release.
Turning to Slide 6 for margins.
First quarter gross margin was down 250 basis points compared to last year's strong first quarter.
Rent and occupancy deleveraged only slightly by 10 basis points.
Merchandise margins were down 240 basis points driven by rising cotton prices which in turn increased our average unit costs.
First quarter gross profit of $1.3 billion was down $97 million to last year.
Turning to Slide 7 for inventory.
At the end of the first quarter inventory per store was up 9.9% with the increase in North America several points below that of Gap Inc.
This is a bit higher than our expectation we laid out in February with the variance driven by the unit sales miss in Japan which was worth about one point.
Please turn to Slide 8 for operating expenses.
We continued our commitment to managing cost tightly in the first quarter and delivered operating expenses down $9 million to last year and about flat as a percent to sales.
Total operating expenses for the quarter were $918 million and included $119 million of marketing up $6 million to last year driven by Athleta and China.
Please turn to Slide 9 for capital expenditures and store count.
We ended the quarter with 3 245 stores including franchised stores.
Net square footage for wholly-owned stores was 37.8 million down 2% compared to Q1 2010 and first quarter capital expenditures were $127 million.
Store count and square footage by division are listed in today's press release.
Regarding cash on Slide 10.
For the quarter free cash flow was an inflow of $104 million.
We repurchased 25 million shares in the first quarter for $548 million and ended the quarter with $2.5 billion in cash.
And now I'd like to discuss our outlook for the rest of the year.
Please turn to Slide 11.
As we stated on our fourth quarter earnings call we continue to expect 2011 average unit cost increases to more than outweigh offsetting average unit retail increases especially in our sizable value channel.
This is in fact how Q1 played out driving our merchandise margins down 240 basis points.
At the time of our fourth quarter call we had only completed purchases for our spring and summer seasons.
Although we anticipated escalation of average unit cost for the back half our costs are now actualizing well above our initial expectations at about up 20% versus last year.
Due to the sharp escalation of second half costing we are ever more focused on increasing our average unit retail.
In addition you can count on us to remain disciplined in managing our operating expenses tightly.
Also as a reminder we'll incur about $70 million in interest expense as a result of our recent debt issuance.
Driven primarily by the higher back half average unit costing we are revising our full year 2011 EPS guidance which we now expect to be $1.40 to $1.50.
It's important to note that we see this significant costing pressure as temporary.
Therefore we remain steadfast in supporting our long-term brand health through marketing and investing in initiatives that will enable future growth.
Regarding inventory we plan to buy units down to last year for the remainder of the year.
However given the sharp increases in average unit cost I've already discussed coupled with international store openings we expect Q2 ending inventory per store to be up in the teens.
We anticipate the increase in North America to be several points below that of Gap Inc.
Regarding stores and net square footage.
For the full year we now expect net store openings including franchise of about 75 up from our previous guidance of about 65 driven primarily by more Outlet stores in North America.
As a result we now expect full year net square footage for wholly-owned stores to decrease by about 2%.
The following full year guidance metrics remain unchanged: Depreciation and amortization about $550 million; effective tax rate about 39%; capital expenditures about $575 million.
In closing in the face of a very difficult costing environment we'll stay focused on managing average unit retail and maintaining expense discipline.
And of course we remain committed to our financial framework including distributing cash to shareholders.
Thank you and now I'll turn it over to Glenn.
Thank you Sabrina and good afternoon everybody.
I have[ph] a few things I'm going to talk about today before we hand it over for questions.
First and foremost I want to talk about Q1 a lot of events happened inside our business in the first quarter and I think it's important for me to put some color around that I then will reference to guidance that you heard Sabrina give for the full year and then I want to come back to our strategy and reinforce how strongly we still feel about Gap Inc.'s mid- and long-term strategic plan.
So in Q1 as everybody knows we dealt with the absolute tragedy in Japan.
I was in Japan met with our team in April spent time with them.
Now the Japanese business is from a consumer perspective it's going to go through a slowdown well beyond May June and July.
As a matter of fact the consumer confidence numbers came on Japan are the lowest numbers in 7 years which you'd expect.
So this is not going to change anytime soon.
We're planning our business accordingly knowing that the consumer is not going to show up traffic is going to be down.
To that point there's 5 stores we plan to open in Japan.
In 2011 there were value stores that we will not be opening now in 2011.
They're just not going to be ready.
But I do want to reinforce that our Old Navy strategy to open stores in the fall of 2012 is still absolutely our intention to do that.
The second thing I want to talk about is sales.
We were minus 3 comp in the first quarter which is not good performance.
For the last 6 quarters we have been either flat to positive 4 comp up until this latest quarter.
And as I sit back and take a look at it we were just more dormant than we should have been in March as a business.
We've made some adjustments in April you saw that with a plus 14 comp at Old Navy plus 11 comp at Banana Republic.
And we've clearly met with the teams and told them that when we get these calendar shifts which are rare to make sure that you make the right decisions through the whole quarter and not rely too much on this case April which benefited from the shift.
We made a change to our Old Navy marketing platform in February and March.
I feel really good about the change and really the strategic thinking behind it was that the model-themed[ph] campaign we had was really rooted in fun and value.
But as we've been changing our assortment we had to make a slight shift to fashion and value never ever giving up on the value piece.
And whenever you make these changes to a platform it's always likely that you're going to lose a little momentum you have to make some tweaks make sure that it's resonating with customers that they actually start seeing the new platform in as positive light as the one that you've left.
I now see that those have been made as I mentioned earlier evidenced by the performance in April and I believe the team continues to make those adjustments going forward into Q2.
And in the first quarter as everybody knows we made some changes to our organizational structure.
Now the first sad decision we made was to consolidate all of our creative activity and decision making in New York for Gap brand in our new Gap Global Creative Center.
Secondly strategically we brought together our specialty channel and our value channel and making sure that comes together under 2 leaders: Jack Calhoun Art Peck now control all those stores have to make the right decisions for customers the right decisions for the brands and the right decisions for return on invested capital.
We then turned around our last month and made some changes to our International team consolidating 2 divisions down to one all decision now for International business being made by Stephen Sunnucks out of London simpler cleaner decision-making for the overall business.
And 2 weeks ago we've made some changes to our design team at Gap Global.
And those are changes that I support needed to be made what I'm really asking the team to do is consider what is the right structure going forward.
Now that we know exactly the global potential of Gap brand what kind of structure do we need in our design team? What is the designed operating model for the business going forward and I've given that a lot of thought.
And lastly as you've heard from Sabrina in the first quarter we did get lift and improved performance on our AUR.
But the input costs were AUC made it difficult for us to hold onto our margin rate in the first quarter.
We've been trying things in different markets whether it's opening price points we've been looking at promotional levels marketing ideas to drive traffic that do not involve discounting.
What I can tell you and I may come back to this at the end I will not allow anybody in the business to compromise the long-term value proposition of each one of our brands for what turns out to be a near-term shift in our economic model.
Let me talk about full year guidance.
I'll be quite honest with you I don't feel good about having to come here today and reguide.
For 14 quarters in a row this management team that's in place have either delivered or exceeded what we said we're going to do.
We've taken a business from a 7.7% operating margin to 13.4% last year.
So we'll feel good about that but the 20% increase in our average unit cost in the back half is real.
And as you heard Sabrina said it's being driven by our 2 value businesses: Old Navy and our Outlet channel.
As further evidence of that Banana Republic's increase in their cost of goods as were forecasted right now is going to be mid-single digit.
So if that kind of performance applied to our total business which is not realistic given how invested we are in the Value segment obviously we'd have a different discussion today when it comes to guidance.
Also I think you need to know that we're making changes to our assortment in every one of our brands and divisions.
What is the right assortment as we stretch the assortment of our business towards more better and best price points? That alone is causing some pressure on the increasing average unit cost.
It's not the driver.
It's just another reason why you're seeing these 20% increases for Gap Inc.
in the back half.
What I can say in closing is that the recent 35% decline in the commodity pricing of cotton tells me this is not a structural issue.
We said that to analysts 6 month ago we reiterate it 3 months ago and now we have the evidence that it's not a structural issue.
So we have to make sure we are clearly concentrating and never getting off our long-term value proposition for what is going to turn out to be a near-term significant increase in our input costs but it is near term.
Lastly let me talk about our strategy.
In China we opened our fifth store this quarter in Beijing.
The 4 stores prior to that are still performing very very well and we're committed to doing 10 stores in 2011.
Italy continues to do exceptionally well in Milan both the Gap store and Banana Republic store and the top stores we have around the world.
We should do 8 to 10 new stores in Italy.
Our Franchise business we had committed to 75 stores in our guidance.
Our Athleta business we should do between 8 and 10 stores in 2011 to fill more store.
Our flagship we opened in San Francisco was performing ahead of our expectations.
And lastly our Online business has been very strong.
I think that was partially driven by the introduction of free shipping last fall.
It has a lot to do about the work that team is doing on mobile and other means to get our brand messaging up in the different mediums that they're using.
I'm very very pleased with what I'm seeing not only here domestically in our Online business but globally around the world.
So in closing I was talking to some people this weekend in the business.
And I was telling them as we're going through the strategy in the direction and the work the company is doing that without doubt you can't ignore what is in front of us on this near-term significant shift in our input costs in the business.
But it is near term which means we are going to do everything we can in terms of managing costs execution product marketing.
Everything this business does has to be of very high level this year to try to offset those costs as much as we can and still deliver a respectable performance in 2011.
But that doesn't change our strategy.
The strategic framework that we've laid out for people on the phone for our investors for the Board of Directors and for our employees is still in place.
We believe in it.
This is just a moment in time that we're going to have to deal with to the best of our abilities and then continue to move forward.
So with that said I'm happy to take any questions from the analysts.
Okay.
Operator that concludes our prepared remarks.
I will now open the call to questions and we'd like to get to as many questions as we can so we'd appreciate it if everyone could limit their questions to one each.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Jeff Black with Citigroup.
I guess Glenn costs moved from 10 to 20 in pretty lightning speed here and what was the disconnect? What did you not anticipate? Why is this happening? And when do we see any costs moderating? It just seems to me it's been there in front of us.
Either you guys weren't prepared for or you weren't talking about it.
Which one was it I guess? Jeff I'll start out on that.
At the time of our Q4 call we had only bought spring and summer and we just started buying fall.
We made the assumption at that time that holiday pricing would ease because we were buying fall into what we believe at the time was the peak of cotton.
We do most of our holiday buying and as you guys know our holiday buys are our biggest buys of the year.
We do most of our holiday buying through the months of March April May.
We're actually not all the way done and we still have our trends in spring assortments that come into Q4 still to go.
But we had made the assumption at the time that our fall buys would be the most expensive and that we'd get some easing in our holiday buys.
And it turns out we were just absolutely wrong on that assumption.
Holiday got worse and that costing came in much higher than we expected and higher than fall.
As we said on the opening comments the real focus here is in Old Navy and our Outlet business.
As you look at in hindsight for the last 3 years we've done a lot of work whether it's on the fabric on trim on choices for that business.
And we've gotten some of our benefit on the operating margins of the business to 2010 by some of the work that all our teams did.
Maybe we're a little ahead of the curve as when new management came in in 2007 and then the recession started to show it's show up at our door we started to move on a number of different fronts one was SG&amp;A and one was AUC which we talked about in all these calls.
And we did some good work.
Do I still think back then we had the lowest cost? No.
Do I still think today there's always opportunities for the business in terms of 2 ways that come in the market through negotiations? For us to get better costing I mean that's what we always have to believe when you're dealing as a retailer to a vendor.
But at the end of the day when cotton went above $2 around that February mark and sustained itself for almost 12 full weeks which was around at the time as Sabrina said we were in the midst of negotiations for our holiday product we didn't have any leverage.
And I'm with her I really thought what we're looking at -- I think we said this in a call in February we know a lot more about cotton than we did a year ago.
We've been talking to everybody.
I was out for 12 days out in Asia and our hubs meeting with vendors one-on-one trying to understand what options we had what could we do all the different tools available to us.
And even then Jeff in fairness that was 2 months ago and even then meeting with vendors and talking very specifically about what was going to happen at holiday even they didn't have the clarity that people like me would want even the responsibility that I have in the business.
Our team is still there today working very hard to try to still because holiday as Sabrina said is not complete.
But there's no way we're going to come out of the call today and not let people know with all the information we have and it's in real time this information.
I mean it's changing every single day so we're giving the best information we have today.
There's still a huge amount of pressure in our team.
I'm obviously disappointed at the numbers we're giving today.
We got a huge amount of pressure on our vendor community because we're disappointed in the numbers they are quoting back to us and how they're taking like-for-like product up to that 20% level or greater in Old Navy and in our Outlet business.
And so we haven't all of a sudden gone brain-dead when it comes to our ability to negotiate the 50 countries we use the hubs.
But we are very cotton-invested as a business in those 2 brands more than anybody else definitely a much bigger part of anything in our portfolio.
And our teams are not giving up.
But as we sit here today this is the best information we have and the forecast we want to come forward with.
But it is continued -- tomorrow I have new information.
It continues to move we continue to fight the good fight but cotton had almost a 300%-increase versus LY.
I may be off a little bit on that but directionally correct and given the amount of cotton means to our product we took a holiday hit much bigger than we thought 3 months ago.
But it's based on the information we have today.
Our next question is from Paul Lejuez with Nomura Securities.
Can you actually kind of differentiate between the cost pressures that's coming from cotton versus wage pressure that might be a little bit more structural? Are you seeing that from your vendors when you get pricing? And then second just wondering what you could tell us about China? What are they buying in those stores? Do they like the logo product? Paul I guess it's not easy what we may have said in some past calls is that what I like about our model is -- our buying model that is is that we can move from country to country.
And we've been moving into other countries outside of China now for the better part of the last 18 to 24 months.
There is wage pressure no question about it and our teams on the ground are keenly aware of that and we have moved to other markets.
Now we're well invested in Vietnam in Cambodia in other parts of India Bangladesh and Sri Lanka.
So we are moving business around where appropriate.
So there is some wage pressure there was no question about it.
But at the same time we're assuming but we don't know when the year plays out there's also going to be some further we suspect demand destruction which maybe will open up some capacity which would then also have an impact on the wages and the labor line.
But I'm not here to predict that today that's just a theory that could happen with further demand destruction.
In our China stores and I was there in March on the way back from the hub and the sourcing business that I did still to this day the percentage of purchases in the Fashion part of our business and as I was saying earlier part of the assortment moves that we're making that is a driver of the 20% increase is part of the assortment moves we're making is being driven by our International business.
So definitely in China which is below -- we're a little caught off guard.
We really thought that the balance of fashion to basics would be somewhat similar to our U.S.
business.
But the Fashion business is very strong which is reassuring for us.
We're going to obviously set a good price point when it comes to basics make sure we have good entry price points complete against who we've identified as our competitors in China fashion --  American fashion product has differentiated us.
So what we're encouraged mostly about is when we will get our fashion right because in women's today -- our fashion in Gap while they're selling successfully in China is not to our standard expectation.
That really provides a nice opening for us on marketing perspective and a differentiation.
We opened our fifth store 2 weeks ago in the same sort of split of business between fashion and basics that's a very encouraging sign.
Do you have a lot of logo product in the store Glenn? I haven't seen the stores.
And is that working? Yes not soon.
I mean anything with logo on it and obviously we customize that and localize it so when I was there recently Gap Shanghai Gap Beijing Gap China New York of course San Francisco.
We probably do a double-digit percent of our business on logo in some of these markets initially.
Our franchise markets our China markets because that really is what denim and logo bring people in.
And then you sell them the fashion because that's where the brand is known for.
Even our marketing was not emphasizing that but in our Franchise business still our European business today our Japanese business and China's planning the same way.
Logo and denim are very very popular with consumers.
Your next question is from the line of Edward Yruma with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
I know you'd made a number of very significant personal moves.
Glenn at this point is your team stable? And can you also give us some insight into what other types of personal moves you've been making maybe below that kind of below that kind of very most senior level? Mostly the focus as I mentioned at the beginning in the commentary was the integration and the merger of our Specialty and Our Value business.
That was very important.
And so that was a big move because our impact took over Gap North America then I was followed up by the international changes we made we're.
We're trying to simplify our structure internationally and Stephen Sunnucks has taken over International at London.
So I'd say from a stabilization perspective those 2 senior leaders are in place.
We put out a fairly large announcement internally just about a month ago which establishes all of our senior positions in International in our Gap Global Creative Center in New York in the team here in North America.
So that's all been done.
So I'm actually quite pleased with the moves we've made.
I think people are hitting the pavement running as they have to.
They're very focused on the Gap business and inside the Gap business very focused as a top priority in product in Women's.
So Mark Breitbard running Merchandise and I feel great about Kevin Komos that's in North America.
Kevin Komos running the International teams Seth Farbman joining us as our first-ever Chief Marketing Officer for the Global brand.
So there's a lot of strategic reasons we've made the changes.
We were fortunate to be able to fill most of those internally a couple of positions we went outside to get done.
So this was a nice shift to get the International team done the right call long-term to merge our Specialty and Value business.
And no there's always going to be some onesies and twosies but at the end of the day I think that the team is very much intact and working well together.
Our next question is from Stacy Pak with Barclays Capital.
I guess I'm curious how much of the hit to 2011 is Japan? That's sort of one thing.
And then just on the AUC what do you think accounts for the difference between Banana and Old Navy? And I guess how much of the sudden 20% increase which honestly is higher than I've heard anywhere has to do with how much you guys cut on sourcing in the past and maybe pushed too far and it's sort of payback time? So Stacy I'll start with your first question on Japan.
So we called out I think on the March sales call in April that we thought it'd be about $0.04 to the quarter.
It turned out around in that ballpark.
We did a little bit of cost cutting in Japan to offset the gross margin hit but that's the right ballpark.
Embedded in our new range is the fact that we don't think that Japan will perform to the level that we would have thought when we have pre-earthquake and tsunami.
It is actually recovering nicely so we're pleased to see that there's some recovery but we do not believe that the year will perform to the level pre-earthquake/tsunami.
And there's a little bit of a range in there but that is not a big driver to the revision in guidance.
The revision in guidance is driven by the AUC.
To give you some color on Old Navy versus BR there is just some old-fashioned map in this.
Old Navy's beginning AUC as you can imagine is far lower than Banana Republic.
So I'm going to make up numbers right now hypothetical.
If you take a $1 increase on a beginning average unit cost of $5 versus $1 increase on a beginning average unit cost of $12 to $15 your percentage is going to be much bigger at an Old Navy just because the base is so low.
And that is some of what we are definitely experiencing as we have worked through the last 3 years bringing costs down especially at Old Navy and Outlet to really low levels.
Glenn did you want to comment? The one thing I'll add on Old Navy as well is that we have quality standards.
I think everybody's business does.
And it's our view that while there were still choices available to us that may have allowed us to mitigate against the 20% in the back half that would just be crossing the line.
Right now the quality standards we have a lot of meetings with focus groups and other means to identify how our consumers view our quality upfront through either hand-feel through stretch and recovery all the different parts that define your quality through fit.
And as Tom Wyatt knows who runs Old Navy we are at an -- I'd say an acceptable level today.
It's not as probably as strong as Tom Wyatt and Nancy Green would like it but it's acceptable.
So there was no way that some of the choices that either vendors or hub leaders in production presented to us.
I saw some of the choices we could have made for fall.
Again holiday is still in motion so I'm not close enough to see some of the choices but I know in a lot of cases they just don't feel comfortable making those trade-offs.
So that's really how it played out at the -- from an Old Navy perspective.
On the payback commentary all I can say about that is I don't believe it.
I hope not.
We did some e-sourcing like a lot of other companies did in 2008 2009 to find out what the right price was.
When we made our statements publicly about our AUC cost opportunity that was driven by our own personal internal how we structure ourselves how we came to market.
The fact that we thought we were not getting recognized for the size of the business and getting the cost we should be getting.
But just one more time to reemphasize we have teams right now in the field meeting with vendors because as Sabrina said holiday has not completed yet but obviously with the decrease of cotton by about 35% that came down from that peak period that was around the end of April when it was well over $2 and the peak has started to come down fairly quickly for the last 5 or 6 weeks.
Our teams are certainly having conversations with vendors because -- I'm a little bit like you Stacy 20% is not a number that's been quoted publicly.
So we are looking and internally we're talking to our teams.
I'm not necessarily happy right now with our production teams.
They're talking to their vendors to say in light of the fact that cotton has come down.
It's not down or anywhere near where I think it's going to get to eventually but it has come down substantially.
What does that truly mean for the price we are going to pay when those goods get delivered in October.
So we are working all angles in that front and what we did was I don't think we had the lowest cost back in '08 or '09.
We were just taking a correction from a poor process and not being as aggressive a negotiating team as we should have been back 3 years ago.
Your next question is from the line of Lorraine Hutchinson with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
I was a little surprised to see that you expect to end the second quarter with inventory up in the teens.
And even x-ing out a couple of points for International I guess I was just hoping to get the rationale for buying inventory dollars up so high for the North American business.
Yes I'm glad you raised that Lorraine.
I want to make really clear that North America -- we keep saying North America units are definitely down further than International.
So we've been buying North America units down.
We're going to continue to buy them down and of course facing this AUC they are coming down further in the back half in North America.
The $1 per store that we give at the Inc.
level is being impacted of course by this very high AUC but also by our International growth which you might be surprised how much that impacts us.
We are opening for example about 20 new stores in the next 3 to 5 months internationally.
Some of those are important flagships like Rome.
They require quite a bit of inventory buy.
So that's definitely impacting us is that International store growth.
In addition to that with the weakening dollar that inventory that we buy is getting translated at a higher U.S.
dollar cost.
So again I want to leave you with the message that North America comp store units we are definitely buying down.
We are trying to balance that because we still have our full year goal of trying to deliver the total company revenue growth.
So we're doing the balancing act between not going so severely down so quickly that we have no ammunition to meet that goal but they are definitely down tightly.
Your next question is from Evren Kopelman with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC</strong> Question on expenses.
First on the SG&amp;A expenses they were down 1%.
Is that possible to see down SG&amp;A for the rest of the year given you have square footage growth internationally? And along the same lines depreciation was also down 12%.
If you can touch on what drove that that kind of decline in the quarter? And same question for the rest of the year I think based in your guidance you don't expect to see such a decline.
If you can touch on those that'd be great.
We're not guiding specifically to SG&amp;A Evren but we have demonstrated I think quarter-over-quarter or year-over-year a lot of discipline when it comes to expenses.
I think the important thing to point out as Glenn said in his remarks we're very committed to our long-term strategies into supporting our brand health.
So what we're most proud of is in Q1 we delivered expenses flat as a percent to sales and below last year even as we invested meaningfully in our growth initiatives internationally and for global online and also while we increased our marketing spend.
So that shows you our determination and our discipline on expense.
I'm not guiding that that's going to be so every quarter.
There's different dynamics that happen quarter-over-quarter.
But I think you can absolutely count on us to continue with that kind of expense discipline.
With regard to the depreciation that also can be bumpy quarter-by-quarter so we're sticking with our full year guidance.
But certainly we benefit from store closures.
We're lapping last year.
We had a lot of depreciation write-off because we were doing a lot of remodels for Old Navy in the first half.
We don't have that this year.
And we have some asset depletion.
But that's going to be a little bumpy but we're going to hold to our full year guidance on that.
Your next question is from the line of Dana Telsey with Telsey Advisory Group.
As you think about the new cost structure for the business how does it differ by brand? And as price points get adjusted how do you think about product category basic versus fashion for each brand and what you want the assortment to look like? Well look our economic model is based on the culmination of all of these different parts in our business.
So our Online business is obviously one we've always put out there as a very strong return on capital return on sales same with our Value business or Outlet business.
And even though we're going to go through this period of time as we highlighted them given the nature of their business what I talked earlier about Old Navy same thing applies to the Outlet business.
There's only so many trade-offs they can make given all the ones we have made the last 3 years.
But that economic model is still very strong still something we believe that not only here domestically but globally.
Same with the Old Navy business.
What I do and we have tried to do in the last couple of weeks as we've got ourselves ready for this call and stuff started become clearer to us in the last few weeks about early numbers coming through for holiday and we started looking at.
Sabrina and I have sat back often and looked at our business on a pro forma basis.
And do we still feel very confident? The answer is yes in our economic model in the business as we look at what is a normalized trend that's going to happen on AUC as we go forward and take out this moment in time.
So I think all of those components there's nothing going on right now in the business what we're talking about today that changes our view of the mix and the businesses we have the portfolio we have the multiple brands the multiple channels.
There's nothing on that side.
On pricing that's a great question because obviously that's one thing that people should be looking at when it comes to our guidance piece.
Some other people have been able -- maybe different businesses than ours and different models have come forward recently and said they're going to hold margin rate.
I guess the squeeze we're into right now is we do not want to take some of the choices that have been presented to us when it comes to product because the quality piece of the Outlet business in Old Navy is just too important to us as I stated earlier.
At the same time on the other side of that coin we don't want to take bad decisions on pricing on key categories for us that we believe in they're volume drivers they define the business.
I was talking to Sabrina earlier just to lighten the mood I was telling her that'd be like us going out Old Navy on something that they are known which $1 for flip flops and sell them for $1.50.
There's just certain things that you believe in the business and you have to stick to those principles.
And we are looking what we've been testing every opportunity we can on pricing.
We've been testing the depth of discounts frequency of discounts longevity of our discount and promotional cadences.
And it will come back to our pricing architecture.
At the end of the day if the competition that we've identified that we have to beat and that we have to make sure that our value proposition is equal to or better than theirs if there's no wiggle room for us to make moves in key categories that applies to Banana Republic Gap Old Navy and our value channel and Athleta and Piperlime and all of those brands there are certain things that are to different levels that we hold near and dear and are critical to the value proposition of that brand.
During this moment in time we believe that it would be irresponsible for us to put that at risk.
When we firmly believe what will be proven out to what level over the next 3 to 6 months.
What we do believe that the input costs are going to subside even further than they are today given what we believe that we're not going to take these chances on our value proposition.
And the adjustments we're making Dana on these tests we're doing some are working out successfully.
We're able to actually learn from it and maintain our unit volume and get the incremental gross margin dollars and AUR.
In some cases particularly given in the U.S.
right now where we're looking at fuel and food pricing going up some cases in some brands the consumer is not at a place where that can happen.
Globally there's different stories.
We got more leverage in our Franchise business.
China has some opportunities for us.
Japan of course we wouldn't even think about changing our prices right now.
The U.K.
with our austerity programs a little tough right now when it comes to traffic and comes to consumer confidence in England.
So we wouldn't be making any irresponsible changes there too.
So it's a big board that we look at by brand by geography by category versus the competition.
And where we can make adjustments we're making them.
Your next question is from the line of Jeff Klinefelter with Piper Jaffray.
Glenn could you talk a little bit more about your -- maybe on a longer-term view basis your International growth plans? You're clearly accelerating those openings this year and it sounds like those stores in both Europe and Asia are trending very well in terms of productivity.
You've also talked in the past couple of years about reducing your footprint in the U.S.
particularly for Old Navy where there are less productive stores.
Maybe talk about that cycle.
And to the extent that you can accelerate that the expansion of International the reduction of U.S.
in order to drive the overall productivity higher.
And I bring it up because internationally it seems that it's getting more and more competitive every quarter in terms of the real estate.
So how are you positioned to take advantage of that? Jeff I'd say that we haven't made the decision to push any further on the speed and the pace in which we're going to expand internationally.
Now 2012 is a long way off although plans are being put together and no order of importance.
We're very excited with our Franchise business.
We're up 43% in the first quarter in our Franchise business.
As Mark touched on it I think in his opening comments we were thinking that we do 75 stores.
And we're short now maybe 80 stores right in the right countries in place franchisees with the exception of maybe Greece that are going through a real tough time right now.
We have not hit any wall that I can tell with any of our franchise markets that our 23 countries today we'll -- as we sit here today we'll add another 5 or 10 over the next year or so.
So that's a very strong business for us.
Online International we're pushing I'd say pretty aggressively into it.
We're in Europe in 22 countries.
We're going to be looking at making that site into local languages which I think is only going to help.
And we're getting a great read from our online site in Europe to indicate to us what will be our next country after Italy we would consider going into.
That's a great way to get that read in our business.
So but we're -- Canada online is very strong with more to come on there.
Feeling good about Europe and in China.
It is basically -- our online site is our #1 store.
Sabrina and I've been talking about let's set a target on what actually online should be in China.
So yes it's 10% 11% here in North America.
We got to set up a bigger target because we really believe in our online site and our online innovation that happens.
China 5 stores one just got added of this year '10.
We are having a good look in 2012 now.
Second-tier cities which I hate to call some of those cities as second-tier cities but it seems to be a common language.
But in  China looking at other opportunities outside of Shanghai Beijing and Hong Kong I've been to 3 markets outside of those 3 big cities.
We're definitely going to go in there in 2012.
How many stores to be determined? Definitely Outlet will open 2012.
There's a lot of good Outlet centers today with more to come.
We're keeping Banana Republic probably a little bit in the back burner for now but maybe a 2013 that could be an option.
Italy 8 or 10 stores and I would -- all in good sense I'm going to Italy for 4 days in June a good sense what 2012  could to look like.
But Sabrina and I was always battling as every local team wants to step on the accelerator because once you feel like you've got a tiger by the tail everybody wants to get more and more store openings in capital and we just got to find the right pace.
And as we've said before if you're doing well and you're being a performer you get a good return on capital.
You're running the business well and the brand is actually resonating with consumers we will give you the capital.
We got to make those decisions.
And the last I want to mention 2 things in North America: Athleta looks a solid 9 stores now maybe 10 in 2011.
That is one that I would say Sabrina and I have both agree with Toby Lenk and Scott Key runs that business.
That's why we're pushing on the accelerator.
And that is -- although everybody has a perception they have a tiger by the tail the one that can clearly look at the day is Athleta definitely has that.
The store opportunity is significant the consumers love it the sales per foot we're getting the returns are all very strong.
And we think we've got a lot of white space and anybody who's in our way competitively we think we have a better model.
And so your point on Old Navy I'd say it's more of a Gap play in terms of store closures consolidation of Kids and Baby to Adult.
That's really where the closures are coming.
Recently in the conference I said in 2013 I could see us getting to around 700 Gap stores to that consolidation play and then beefing up our Specialty stores to around 250.
So getting almost closer to a 3:1 ratio which when I started here the ratio of Specialty to Value was 6:1.
So that's a strong signal from us to the market and to our customers most importantly.
As Jack Calhoun and Art Peck run these businesses holistically as opposed to by channel they're running it by brand.
They will make the right decisions for those brands about when to grow Value when to grow Specialty.
Old Navy is a square footage play but very few store closures.
Your next question is from Michelle Tan with Goldman Sachs.
I was just wondering if you take away the product cost issue can you give us a sense on what you guys are seeing with respect to markdowns and depth of promotions against last year and how you think about that through the balance of the year? Yes I think Michelle as we've been saying it on the monthly sales call every month February and March in particular we weren't happy with the performance of Women's at Gap and at Banana Republic.
We really need to make those Women assortments more appealing.
And so our performance in those departments in those 2 brands we have been disappointed.
We've had to go more at markdown than we wanted do.
And our markdown margins are impacted when the assortment and the styling doesn't resonate with the customer.
So we have our work cut out for us in those 2 brands.
At Old Navy we actually feel really good about the product assortment across-the-board and in particular in Women's.
So when we get her in the box we've seen throughout the quarter very nice conversion very nice AUR.
What we thought happened at Old Navy was really more of a marketing as Glenn talked about in his remarks in our evolution of that marketing campaign we lost some momentum on the traffic.
We've got a lot of that back in April and we hope to keep that momentum obviously as we go forward.
We've got some lessons learned in February and March.
But we're really happy with that product assortment.
And of course the teams at Gap are hard at work with all the changes on the leadership side.
And then at Banana that definitely is the focus of the team at Banana is to get that Women's product back on track.
And on the promotional front my view is we have every intention to be less promotional.
That's our goal.
We know what we did in 2008 2009 was to compete.
And I would argue that maybe in the second half of 2010 there was through better innovation better creativity better focus on just the product and not the promotional idea that may have come forward we probably should have started to move a little bit more in that direction in the latter half of 2010.
The teams are committed to that and as Sabrina said what we would have done a year ago is if we wanted to be promotional to drive traffic or to move through some inventory we would have holistically had a 40% off total store.
Now I think we go right to where inventory could be 40% off Women's excluding denim.
That would be an example of what's happening at Gap.
Now the goal is we have to -- there's no question we get the whole issue of what is it our customers want what kind of frequency yes she needs some incentive thinking out to couch a little more than usual.
That hopefully will weigh in over time.
But how do we through some very creative means and I think I'm starting to see that at Old Navy in particular through some of the partnerships they're doing which I think will really benefit us in this summer and this fall by not actually just go into a traditional way of driving traffic and describing your value proposition by getting much more creative.
I mean everybody on the phone has heard me say this before.
And there's times where we've actually delivered on this.
And there's time I've been disappointed that we go to the lowest common denominator at times.
But the business and all the leaders that I deal with are very committed.
We're going to see more of that in the back half of the year shifting the conversation to less about discount and more about product.
Great thanks.
And then Sabrina just a quick one if you could quantify the impact of International on the inventory dollars that would be really helpful.
We haven't quantified that.
I'll tell you the foreign exchange piece by itself is a point.
And again I'll just emphasize that the units in North America are very tight and definitely down much more than than International.
Your next question is from Janet Kloppenburg with JJK Research.
I heard a whole lot about costs today but I haven't heard a lot about top line.
So I would love you to give us some idea about how you're feeling the confidence you have in the brands Glenn domestically for the rest of the year.
And if some of these earnings revision has to do with a less optimistic outlook in terms of your top line performance.
And with respect to the costs coming down in the first half of fiscal '12 I'm just wondering are we just supposed to adjust our models and get back all the margin that we're taking away? Or perhaps you could help us rationally develop a model for next year.
It's probably a little premature.
Obviously coming here today 3 months after we gave guidance to have to reguide because as I said earlier because holiday is just happening in real time.
It's still happening now.
The last thing that I want to do is try to be predictive on spring and summer right here right now.
As information becomes available and as we get clarity we will absolutely -- the minute we have clarity know exactly what spring is going to look like and which would probably be at our next conference call we'll be able to at least identify whether this 35% drop in cotton which again futures are around $1.10 and $1.15 but in December if that trajectory was to continue you would have a much better sense of what will that mean for our AUC.
Sitting here today I just find it hard to believe that for the fiscal year 2012 -- and this is again there is no evidence of this I'm just sitting here today with what I know if it was to keep coming down at the rate that it's supposed to come down from people who are experts in this field how could our AUCs not be below through a whole -- through all of our 2012 versus 2011 how could they not be lower? But that -- we're going to give information as we know and as we meet with our teams and as we negotiate.
You're absolutely right to bring up top line.
We knew today was going to be a lot about -- obviously the news today was about the reguidance and the reasons behind it.
But top line perspective I'd look at it this way and say that Sabrina's right.
The Old Navy business we put a new marketing platform in place I mentioned earlier didn't have the needed effect immediately.
We made those adjustments.
What we were actually feeling with the work Nancy Green and her team have done under Tom's leadership we're starting to see that form a conversion perspective and at UPT inside of our stores.
So I'm feeling that Old Navy and they've got more innovative ideas coming.
They're massively embracing new category introductions.
The marketing team even though they had to bridge from the old to the new platform they have so many other ideas coming.
And I think that team in this environment from a top line perspective -- because we need Old Navy to do what Old Navy has done.
I think it was either Mark will correct me in a second.
I believe either flat performance to positive comp 18 of the 24 months.
We need Old Navy to have that kind of performance in order for us to grow in 2012 which is our goal.
Our goal is to grow top line sales in 2012.Gap right now is obviously going through quite a bit of change.
Art Peck and Stephen Sunnucks in conjunction together from a global perspective are trying to use our speed platform to help out a little bit in fall but it will be a little bit.
They're mostly taking Women's non-denim for holiday and just tearing it apart trying to do the right things so we can get the best chance to have an assortment that we can feel good about for holiday.
Now I was telling Sabrina this notion of our business that anytime you make a change you have to wait 12 months or something to happen.
I just don't accept it.
And the team has been in New York.
I've been there a few days over the last few weeks.
They've been there for the last 3 or 4 weeks under clear direction under Stephen and Art's working with Mark Breitbard and working with Simon -- sorry Kevin Komos making the changes to make sure that we fix the one area of the business that we're very unhappy with today.
On the other side Kids and Baby is doing well.
Our Body business particularly GapBodyFit is doing well.
Our Denim business in Men's and a number of woven tops in Men's and knits are doing well.
Our Denim in Women's coming out of our LA design office led by Rosella Giuliani is doing well.
But that size of the assortment Women's Non-denim is a big pool for Gap and it really defines your fashion message for the season.
And I'm hoping the though small adjustments in fall but holiday they can show us what that brand needs.
So their goal: Keep the strength that we have right now and make those adjustments in product to get to a better sales performance.
And Banana Republic as you know for the last 6 to 9 months our Women's business has not resonated.
Our Men's business is on fire.
I think Women's in general is in a bit of malaise just market-wise.
But regardless of that some people are gaining share and are growing Women's.
But in general Women's from an NPD's perspective looks a little down right now.
But our team I think we'll see -- the new flow just came in now.
I saw some real adjustments they made for July which I felt actually good about Julie Rosen and Jack Calhoun have done.
So all of that sort of -- that's a little trip around every single one of the brands to get to the point is that we are still committed even in the face of these cost increases still committed to getting total top line growth in the full fiscal year at Gap Inc.
that's a critical message for us.
And for Sabrina I was wondering if we should consider the inventory levels domestically which I know are down somewhat less than they are on a global basis.
But we should consider those in addition to AUC at least for our gross margin estimates in the second and the third quarter.
Would that be appropriate? So we haven't guided to inventory beyond Q2 -- in the Q2 Janet.
But with these AUC levels the way we've described them for the back half you're definitely going to have inventory higher than cost because we're also basically we said since actually the fourth quarter earning call pressure on merchandise margins pressure on operating margins.
It's just that now with the AUCs coming through at much higher levels that gap is even wider.
But I'm speaking to the question of promotions to bring that inventory down.
I think that it's more than just AUC that's driving the inventory isn't it? You came into the year with more than you expected domestically and you need to get them in line with sales.
We won't have them in line with comps because our margins are not going to be flat or up to LY.
They're going to be down to LY.
So the inventories will remain above the cost.
Now we're taking units down for sure.
We keep reiterating that in North America especially our comp store units will be down.
But the cost is up such that in the AUR we won't expect to come up as much as would make up that comp that you're going to have margin pressure on the merch margin just like we did in Q1 and that's going to flow through the operating margin line.
Now we're bringing the units down we're trying to balance again to your first question on top line.
We want to keep enough units in the system to give us an opportunity to meet our overall goal of driving top line.
But the units are down.
We're not bringing them down severely.
I mean they're down a lot in North America but we don't want to go so severe that we have no opportunity to drive top line overall.
That's the balance that we're trying to achieve.
Your next question is from the line of Brian Tunick with JPMorgan.
Just a quick question I guess.
On the -- it looks like the cash flow the free cash flow this year I guess on your new $1.40 to $1.50 would be I guess under $800 million.
And I was just wondering Sabrina given the bond offering and given your share repurchase program announcement does this at all change your appetite or pace of share repurchase program? So we're very committed as I said in my prepared remarks Brian we're very committed to our financial framework.
We're very disciplined about distributing cash to shareholders.
The debt issuance just gives us more flexibility with regard to how much we achieve.
But we have demonstrated over a decade that through many cycles of positive comp negative comp global recession our cash flow is very strong.
So it's strong enough that we remain confident and comfortable that we can continue on our path of distributing cash to shareholders.
Your final question will come from the line of Kimberly Greenberger with Morgan Stanley and Company.
I wanted to ask just philosophically about how -- what benchmarks did you use in order to guide your inventory buy? I'm just looking at the last 4 quarters where we had total sales growing faster than total inventory -- I'm sorry rather total inventory growing faster than total sales.
So I understand that there can be a quarter where there's timing differences or an international impact or Japan et cetera.
But to have a persistent growth in inventory above sales it strikes me that there might be something different today about the way you're managing inventory and I was just hoping you could step back from the noise of the quarter and help us understand how you're thinking about that going forward? Yes that's a great question Kimberly.
So it's in our long-held philosophy that we want to try and keep inventory units in line with demand.
There's a lot of noise now with AUC which I'll get too.
But our underlying philosophy for many years has been to buy inventory units in line with demand.
Last year the management team broadly speaking at Gap Inc.
held hands to make the decision to air on the side of the customer and buy units to make sure that we were in stock in our stores.
So last year we began to depart a little bit from buying the units in line with our traffic.
We were not happy with the results.
And we've talked about that and we definitely also decided given the results of that that we would go back to our practice of bringing the units down.
Just at the time we brought the units back down we're getting safe with this very high average unit costs.
So that is frustrating because we're not reporting the dollars as far as the units are down but the units again I will say are definitely down.
We're getting back to our principle of getting back down in line with traffic for certain.
We realized the cost is up much where in many cases bringing them down below traffic to account for the fact that average unit costs are up so much.
I feel like they're in reasonable shape in North America.
We've actually bought them quite conservatively especially at our largest brand Old Navy.
The other dynamic that's happening that's masking that discipline is this commitment to International growth and that the pressure that is putting on a per-store basis as we try and open these stores internationally in our back half some of which are flagships and bringing inventory in.
So I -- we will consider going forward whether we just get more transparent about telling you about our units in North America down because it obviously is an important point to make and it might be helpful in future as we consider actually just being more clear about how far those units are down because I think you guys would gain comfort from that.
Okay we'd like to thank everybody for joining us on the call today.
As a reminder the earnings press release is available on www.gapinc.com and it contains a full recap of our Q1 results as well as the forward-looking guidance included in Sabrina's remarks.
And as always the IR team will be around after the call to take questions.
Thanks.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
My name is Kristen and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Gap Inc.
Second Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to introduce your host Katrina O'Connell Vice President of Investor Relations.
Good afternoon everyone.
Welcome to Gap Inc.'s Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
For those of you participating in the webcast please turn to Slides 2 and 3.
I'd like to remind you that the information made available on this webcast and conference call contains forward-looking statements.
For information on factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements as well as reconciliations of measures we are required to reconcile to GAAP financial measures please refer to today's press release as well as our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and our most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q all of which are available on gapinc.com.
These forward-looking statements are based on information as of August 18 2011 and we assume no obligation to publicly update or revise our forward-looking statements.
Joining us today on the call are Chairman and CEO Glenn Murphy; and Executive Vice President and CFO Sabrina Simmons.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Sabrina.
Thank you Katrina.
Good afternoon everyone.
Though we're certainly not pleased with an earnings decline our second quarter performance does demonstrate a continued focus on our stated goals including growing the top line maintaining expense discipline investing in our future and returning excess cash to shareholders.
Specifically we're pleased that we were able to achieve net sales growth of 2% driven by our new international stores and our online and franchise businesses.
We tightly managed our operating expenses which were flat to last year and leveraged 50 basis points.
And finally during the quarter we returned $880 million to shareholders with $820 million in share repurchases and $60 million in dividends.
Please turn to Slide 4 for our earnings recap.
In the second quarter net income was $189 million down 19% and EPS was $0.35 per share versus $0.36 last year.
Turning to Slide 5.
Second quarter net sales were up 2% to $3.4 billion.
Total sales and comps by division are listed in today's press release.
Turning to Slide 6 for margins.
Second quarter gross margin was down 270 basis points driven entirely by declines in merchandise margins.
Second quarter gross profit of $1.3 billion was down $63 million to last year.
Turning to Slide 7 for inventory.
At the end of the second quarter inventory units per store were down and inventory per store in terms of dollars was up 5% in line with our revised guidance.
Please turn to Slide 8 for operating expenses.
Total operating expenses for the quarter were $917 million and leveraged 50 basis points as a percent of sales.
This includes $114 million of marketing up $13 million to last year driven by Old Navy and our online businesses.
Please turn to Slide 9 for capital expenditures and store count.
In the first half capital expenditures were $261 million focused on international stores global online expansion and Old Navy downsizes.
As a reminder our goal is to grow our store base internationally through both wholly-owned and franchise stores.
In North America our goal is to reduce our square footage overall driven by downsizes at Old Navy and closures at Gap brands.
True to our goals year-to-date we've opened 15 international stores and 18 franchise stores.
We've downsized and remodeled nearly 40 Old Navy stores and have closed about 30 Gap stores in North America driving a total net square footage decline of 2% compared to Q2 2010.
Regarding cash on Slide 10 year-to-date free cash flow was an inflow of $298 million slightly above last year.
We ended the quarter with $2.2 billion in cash and short-term investments.
As continuing evidence of our commitment to return cash to shareholders we've repurchased 67 million shares in the first half for $1.4 billion.
Our Q2 weighted average diluted shares were 545 million.
At the end of Q2 we had about $670 million remaining on our current $2 billion share repurchase authorization.
And now I'd like to discuss our outlook for the rest of the year.
Please turn to Slide 11.
We are reaffirming our full year earnings per share guidance of $1.40 to $1.50.
As a reminder our back half assumes average unit costs are up about 20%.
Given our focus on targeted price increases and promotions we expect our average unit retails to be up especially as we bring our unit sales down.
However we do not expect average unit retails to increase enough to offset the average unit cost increases.
Therefore our guidance reflects significant pressure on our margins.
We have a goal of leveraging rent and occupancy and operating expenses.
We're confident the goal is achievable on a positive comp base but it's more challenging if comps remain negative.
Our planned inventory unit buys are down across all divisions in Q3.
Despite this we expect our inventory dollars per store at the end of Q3 to be up in the high single digits driven by average unit costs up about 20%.
The following full year guidance metrics remain unchanged.
Depreciation and amortization about $550 million; effective tax rate about 39%; capital expenditures about $575 million; net store openings including franchise about 75; and net square footage decline about 2%.
In closing we remain committed to our 2011 goals of growing top line maintaining expense discipline investing for long-term growth and returning cash to shareholders.
Thank you and now I'll turn it over to Glenn.
Thank you Sabrina and good afternoon everybody.
Before I hand it back to the analysts for any questions on the second quarter I want to just give you some opening comments.
I'm going to start talking about our international business because there's been a lot of progress in the second quarter and then I'm going to come back and talk about our domestic business.
So first on the international front we just recently opened our sixth store in China and we're excited about that.
We have 10 more stores to open between now and the end of the year with the key of those 10 store openings being the major flagship in Hong Kong.
And also something that's different I think from the last conference call we had we were pretty much set on opening only in 3 cities in 2011: Shanghai Beijing and Hong Kong.
We've now made the decision as we have been presented incredible opportunities.
We're going to open up in 2 incremental cities in 2011: Tianjin and Hangzhou.
Now for Italy.
We've also as of today opened 6 stores with the key opening in the second quarter being Rome.
We have an amazing site in Rome.
It's doing really well.
It's a flagship location just like Milan.
So we feel very good about our Italian strategy right now and we will open up 5 more stores between now and the end of the year.
Our franchise business we're going to open up in 7 new countries in the second half of this year.
That the most new countries we've done in any single 6-month period.
Our global outlet business we did 6 stores in the first half.
We'll do 15 stores in the back half.
Our Athleta business we just opened up in New York City.
So we're now on the East Coast.
Two stores in New York opened back to back and we're very excited strong response from the consumers in New York and we will do 6 more stores by the end of the year.
Our Piperlime business we're adding more and more exclusively brands.
The newest on Piperlime is we're adding men's apparel this month which I think will be a nice complement to the business we have.
Our online business globally is doing very well.
We are in 22 countries in Europe and our China online business is just super impressive between our own site and also we're on Taobao.
The penetration in China is very strong and that is part of our long-term strategy to get major high street locations like the store in Hong Kong complemented with core mall locations with outlet and with a very strong online presence.
Okay.
Let me switch gears now and talk about our domestic business.
We've negative comped 2 quarters in a row now and that's not good performance and it certainly is below our standards.
We've been very clear internally and externally our goal is to have moderate steady growth in our domestic business.
So we've not achieved that.
What's critical is our business needs to comp in North America and that is something that the teams and the brand presidents clearly understand.
Now as I look forward to the second half of the year there are really just 2 key priorities for us in the second half.
One is marketing and the second one is women's product.
On women's business we're disappointing with our performance.
If you look at the key categories at Gap Inc.
Kids and baby did not negative comp in the quarter.
Men's did not negative comp in the quarter.
So really it's our women's business that's a drag on the total company's performance.
We need to get better right away in our women's product.
We understand that our teams understand that we need to have great products in our stores.
Banana Republic I'd say the 3 brands as I look at them I'd say Banana Republic is the furthest ahead in terms of achieving that.
When I saw the product I was in stores this weekend with the team I think it's a good flow and particularly in pants.
Wear-to-work women's pants casual and going out.
I'd say Old Navy is the next one and there's a lot of great work going on by that team when it comes to product.
But I've really seen it now in their denim.
A lot of new fit a lot of new washes great color denim coming into Old Navy in the next few weeks which I know the team is very excited about.
Gap brand for their women's product I think we've been telling everybody who's an investor that the Gap brand team is working tirelessly.
The team in New York led by Pam Wallack have been focused on making sure that the Gap product in women American casual style that it gets designed right by the team in New York and we get that right product in our stores.
Mostly our customers are going to see that in spring.
Having said that I do believe that there's going to be improvements in holiday from the last 9 months which we've been operating in in 2011.
And lastly we've had some ineffective marketing in the first half.
Not that it was bad it was just less effective than we wanted it to be.
Now our marketing dollars are up versus LY but most of that has gone towards Piperlime Athleta Old Navy and has gone towards opening up our stores in our new international markets.
So Gap had some very limited marketing spend particularly in the second quarter because there was not a lot of news at Gap.
We're strong believers philosophically of not putting money in marketing just for the sake of doing it.
There has to be something to talk about.
Old Navy we had some storylines but the marketing did not pull did not drive traffic as much as we wanted.
We're still very fixated on getting new customers in our stores.
We know that's important to us.
The 1969 campaign really was an example of that telling that L.A.-design studio story but telling it in a unique way.
That's something that a lot of new customers they really gravitate to that.
They love how genuine it is how real it is.
You're going to see more of that type of marketing not only from Gap but from other brands because people are telling us they respond very well to that genre of marketing.
You'll see a shift in our media mix in the back half definitely a lot more online media.
We've been testing that for the last 6 months.
We like the early response.
And most importantly the Old Navy creative and marketing messages and the strength of Old Navy's aggressive marketing to drive traffic to their key customer across their lease line it needs to get better.
There's a lot of good stuff going on at Old Navy right now.
I see it in the product.
I see it in the fact we have 300 stores now that have been remodeled new categories coming in.
But at the core as marketing needs to find who they are and there's a big value component to that but also it's the spirit and the personality of Old Navy that's a big priority in the second half.
So in conclusion I believe the company is making a lot of great strides overall on its corporate strategy which is to be dominant in multiple brands multiple geographies and multiple channels and I highlighted that at the beginning when I talked about the countries we're in; our franchise business which is unique channel; online outlet and our new brands Athleta and Piperlime.
Now domestically prior to coming into 2011 we have not negative comp for 6 quarters in a row.
That's good and we're really not off to the kind of start that we feel good about so far in 2011 granted there's been huge fluctuations in input costs.
And yes the economy in the U.S.
has been a little lumpy in the last 6 months.
But here's what I tell everybody internally and I mean it.
There's business out there.
There is business out there in the U.S.
market.
I look at other retailers other brands not everybody but certain ones that I watch closely and there's business out there.
So besides following all the initiatives we put forth we have 2 priorities right now: marketing in North America being more effective and our women's product going from being okay to great.
Those are 2 key priorities.
So now I'm going to turn it over to Katrina and I'm happy after that to answer any questions from anybody on the phone.
Thank you very much.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We'll now open up the call to questions and we'd appreciate limiting your questions to one per person.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question is from the line of Lorraine Hutchinson with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Glenn I just wanted to follow up on the comment you made about there's business out there you just need to go get it.
Who do you think your female customer is who should be shopping at Gap? And where is she shopping right now? And what do you think you need to offer her to get her back in the door? Well let me think.
I'll come back to the question 2 ways.
I'll answer it from a Gap Inc.
perspective first.
When we look at our business today we believe that even though the women's business from an industry perspective at a very high level seems to be lagging the men's business.
We see there have been a bit of this down cycle.
So I think all of us are going through that.
And when you see the reports from people who are multiple categories such as department stores that seems to highlight a lot about their accessory business their cosmetics business their men's business and not much about women's.
So in general I think women's is in a bit of a down cycle and there's not a lot of business relatively speaking from a growth perspective as we've seen in the past.
But I would say the people who are getting the traffic right now are probably benefiting by their multiple categories that they offer and they are taking share.
So that would be the department stores and some of the ones that I think are in Gap brands' direct line of sight would be a department store like Macy's.
When you think of Old Navy I would say that today -- and again there seems to be from the research we've done plus the trips we make to the stores the people we speak to not just customers but our own store managers and competitors seems to be a little bit of a deceleration in the number of trips people are taking.
I think that's driven a bit Lorraine by the economics times in which we're in; obviously in the second quarter by gas prices.
And when that happens and over the last decade or 2 there's always cycles like this where I think people pull back a little bit.
And when they pull back trips come down.
And when trips come down if you are a multiple category retailer such as department stores or a one-stop shop retailer like a Target would be a direct competitor to Old Navy that for this moment in time seems to be a benefit.
So trips are down a bit and we're seeing that obviously with our traffic but also with some of the research we've done.
At this moment that's what's going on.
So I'd say those are 2 examples of retailers and brands who in my estimation and the category when it comes to women's seem to be doing better than our 2 main brands Gap and Old Navy.
Your next question is from the line of Evren Kopelman with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC</strong> Sabrina I think you said you expect to leverage on the rent occupancy and operating expenses in the second half but that requires positive comps.
And I'm just curious isn't that a little aggressive given the negative comp performance in the first half and kind of the -- it seems to be an increasing uncertainty in the economy? Yes Evren thanks for the opportunity to clarify.
So what I said was we have definitely a goal to leverage rent and occupancy and operating expenses and we feel confident about meeting that if we positive comp.
So if we don't positive comp it's definitely more challenging.
Now what we're very proud of in the second quarter from an expense management perspective is we actually achieved 50 basis points of expense leverage even though we had a negative 2 comp.
So that gives us some evidence that when we really put our minds to it it's doable but it's very difficult on a negative comp.
We do feel much more confident if we achieved the positive comp.
So thanks for letting me clarify that.
Your next question is from Janet Kloppenburg with JJK Research.
I had a question about the opportunity for positive comps.
It sounds like the women's business is going to be tough.
I think Glenn said we should expect it to get better in the spring.
So if the women's business doesn't improve from the levels we saw in the second quarter is there an opportunity for positive comps? And secondly perhaps you have some vision or confidence that it could improve a bit from the second quarter.
I'd like to sort of get a feel for the confidence level you have in the ability to see some progress made in that category in the second half of this year.
Janet if you're referring to Gap brand because that's the brand I talked about more in the spring when I answered Lorraine's question on Gap Inc.
was more about women's in general in our total business.
And again I think there's a bit of a lull going on in the market right now.
But in spite of that we need to perform better at Gap brand.
The team led by the global team but the North American team led by Art and Mark Breitbard and the work being done by Pam Wallack in New York I would say that they start to feel much more confident about the fashion and trend decisions because they've been working at this now for 5 months trying to transition the brand aesthetic which got a little out in terms of the evolution of the Women's aesthetic got a little too modern for our customers.
We want to be relevant.
But I think the new team has really done a much better job on the aesthetic.
We're going to start seeing that show up in our stores in the spring.
What I was saying -- and the comp question is still to be determined because you heard earlier about the environment in which we're dealing with.
These are all questions I think all retailers have right now.
What I do know is when I look at what work has been done on the last 5 months and the media focus when they got in was to do some work on holiday.
So the holiday work the product that's coming in the categories we're focusing on the reversal of the aesthetic that was in place and changing it to consummate some categories that are really appropriate not only trend-right but appropriate for Gap I believe gives a much better chance to reverse the fortunes of the women's business inside the Gap brand.
How do you feel about it Old Navy Glenn? I'll be honest with you Janet.
I'm disappointed in the number of customers we are not getting into Old Navy to actually see the product.
So is that the marketing issue you talked about? Yes I think at the end of the day to be quite frank whenever we have a traffic issue like this I always go to product first.
Even though I to be honest with you I think our women's product at Old Navy in the last 3 months has improved and I see that clearly.
And I think right now there are some challenges in women's wovens.
But in general our women's product is actually pretty good at Old Navy.
So I always go to that first because it's so easy to blame this on store execution and ineffective marketing.
Now the ineffective marketing is certainly something we are fixing as we speak.
But the women's business I think in my opening comments I've seen an improvement in this most recent flow at Banana Republic and I've actually felt good the last 3 months.
There's always a category here and there -- of what the work that Nancy Green has done at Old Navy.
So the biggest frustration is that we have to get more people in the store.
We have to find all the different mediums and levers we have to get people in online and the marketing we spend the social media work that we do to get more people in to give that product a chance to be experienced tried on bought and spoken about because word of mouth is still a powerful vehicle inside of our business.
So I'm kind of disappointed in the brand.
I'm disappointed in the leadership that we've been unable to get enough people in the customers we target to come in and see what Nancy has actually put into the store.
With that said it's always has room for improvement.
But as I ranked them earlier I think Banana Republic is the furthest ahead.
I think Old Navy has been good but has some room to still improve but I think it's good right now.
And Gap is a redo which I hope to see noticeable improvement in holiday.
Can you change the marketing for Old Navy in time to make it effective for third quarter? Here's what I'll say to you.
Basically the campaign that we have been playing with since March we shifted formats and platforms everybody knows.
We tried to make it stronger in the last 5 months and last weekend we decided to just put it on the back burner.
We had another campaign we are working on.
And I think this weekend you're going to see a new campaign come forward for Old Navy as we put the other one on the back burner either it will be once and for all as a platform fixed to drive traffic.
Or when we come out very strongly in October and November and December we'll a brand new campaign.
The one we have now I think is a nice stopgap you'll see this weekend but if we can't fix what we have we'll have a brand new one.
Your next question is from Michelle Tan with Goldman Sachs.
Just first Sabrina maybe you could clarify just on the comments around positive comp and being confident in the achievability of your goals if you get the positive comp.
I know it's a comment about leveraging rent and occupancy.
But is it also applicable to your broader financial goals for the year as a result of leveraging rent and occupancy or is it just specific to that component? And then Glenn I had a follow-up for you as well.
Yes tell me if I'm not hitting your question correctly Michelle because I'm not sure I'm understanding it.
But my comments were all with regard to how we would leverage rent and occupancy and operating expense.
So we're always going after the discipline in reducing square footage shedding unproductive rent and occupancy and trying to leverage that.
As you've seen though both in Q1 and Q2 if we don't positive comp so both Q1 and Q2 negative comp we don't get broad leverage.
So it's very difficult to get a broad leverage if you don't positive comp.
And then on operating expenses we've done better in Q2.
We actually leveraged with a negative comp but it's not easy.
So my comments were very specific to that.
With regard to kind of our view overall for the rest of the year just to underscore what Glenn responded to in the last question we have not given up on our goals certainly of total revenue growth for the full year.
That's an important goal for us goal and even with a first half comp at negative 2 we have achieved total revenue growth.
So we're pleased with that and we're definitely focused on delivering that for the full year.
The comp piece of it is challenging given that the first half is in at a negative and the second half we brought our units down and it's kind of bumpy road ahead but we're going to aspire to that.
Okay.
Got it.
And then Glenn kind of in a related question.
You've talked about some of the challenges that the consumer has been living with and the sector's been living with for a little while now.
Can you give us any perspective on what you're seeing in the last several weeks or in the back-to-school season in terms of volatility? I mean do you signals that some of this turmoil is taking a greater toll on the consumer in terms of traffic or in terms of just those consolidated trips or whatever? Let's answer this in 2 parts.
I'll give you sort of a broader answer about I think the consumer more midterm from now to the end of the year.
And Sabrina can speak more specifically about any recent volatility we may have seen in our business.
Okay.
There's been a lot of mixed economic news and there was a bag full of mixed economic news today and there's issues across the pond which affect the stock markets here in the United States.
So we're certainly thinking the sentiment in the back half relative to the first half will be neutral at best.
So it would be a similar sentiment from a consumer perspective.
We are certainly nowhere near that it's going to be an improving sentiment to what we had to operate in and compete in in the first half.
And if you were advised to lean on one side or the other I'd say it's more likely to be slightly more negative from a sentiment perspective in consumers in the United States.
So I'm not speaking globally right now just in our home country which is a significant part of our business more likely to be slightly negative than it was in the first half.
But we'll see how things progress over the next number of months.
And all keeping our fingers crossed that good decisions get made and that better economic data comes forward and that maybe the holiday season could be slightly positive.
But we're not counting on it right now.
Your next question is from John Morris with BMO Capital.
Question I think for Sabrina.
You did talk a little bit about SG&amp;A and really good job there on controlling the costs and managing it.
But stepping back and looking at the my model and with the increased marketing that you do have going on.
First kind of part to check with you is is there -- are you also including in some of that spending some of the upfront costs for international expansion? And if so all the more reason to suggest that you're doing a great job managing costs there.
Where is that coming from? Where are some of those improvements coming from given the weakest comps? Good question John and yes definitely all of our expenses are included in our operating expense number including our investments in international.
Now that's not necessarily putting a whole lot of pressure on this year because of course we began those investments last year.
So we're anniversarying the investments but they absolutely are happening within that bucket.
And then of course we have increased by about $13 million in the quarter the marketing spend.
So there's no really big one factor that's helping us deliver all-in flat operating expenses.
I think it speaks to the culture that we have been developing over the last few years together and that the company has fully embraced.
And I think all the teams just do a fantastic job and it's just $1 million here $1 million there making sure we're responsible in every form.
There's really no big call out other than that but the total expenses definitely include the investments in international as well as marketing.
Your next question is from Erika Maschmeyer with Robert W.
Baird.
You mentioned that Banana was further ahead.
Have you done more across your teams to maybe take some of those learnings to the other concepts on the design side? And could you also talk about on the speed side on the initiatives there where you're at from a speed perspective with each of your concepts and how that might help as we get into the spring? The comment about Banana was that I think we would all collectively agree from a women's perspective that team which -- the women's business has been soft for quite a while now.
They have really -- I mean everybody in the company when there's a missed opportunity whether it's we're off fashion or the trend is not right or somebody competitively is beating us and doing a better job that in this company at least that brings a lot of focus to where the big light shines on it.
In think Banana's been at fairly aggressively now for the last 6-plus months trying to get better momentum on their women's business.
We'll see if it develops any momentum.
But when you walk in the store and the consumer comments and how many stores -- a lot that we hear from our store manager and our teams is that they feel this is a much better flow that was received 10 days ago than they've seen in a while.
So I think that's positive news.
In terms of cross communication in the business our merchants get together in a regular basis.
I mean my job is to make sure that they spend a lot of time when necessary speaking to one another about each other's businesses talking about broader trends.
But then really go into their own corners because each brand has to stand for something completely differently.
The only thing the 3 brands have in common is -- well there's 2 things they have in common.
One they're owned by Gap Inc.
and secondly they're American brands.
But after that their consumers are different their age profile can be slightly different their average household income is different.
So I think it's good that they get together and compare trends but then apply that and how do you bring that alive within your own brand and aesthetic guardrails.
In terms of speed we've been for the last 6 or 9 months really questioning our merchandising model inside the company.
And the first thing we did when it comes to our merchandising model was to push hard on speed.
We're getting some benefit coming through this fall and holiday.
And again some brands are further ahead than others.
So I'm actually anticipating that in this holiday season when we take our pipeline which we cut down by third of the weeks and then you take our speed pipeline and that's another 40% less weeks than our core pipeline we're going to make better decisions.
Those are better decisions and a lot of it is fashion product.
Better decisions on fashion and trend better decision on the inventory buys better decisions on allocations to stores.
I mean this is not rocket science.
So there's been 2 outstanding retailers in the last 50 years who actually built their business on this.
This is not the Gap Inc.
model.
But as we continue to evolve our merchandising model's speed and getting much faster making much better decisions getting closer to customers is key to us delivering on our modest steady growth in our North American business.
Is it Old Navy that's further along? It's Old Navy that's further along.
Great.
Could you rank the other 2 behind that or...
Let's just say that Gap has work to do.
Your next question is from the line of Brian Tunick with JPMorgan.
I guess so 2 quick ones.
Sabrina did you mention sort of what your lead times are on buying at Old Navy? So when should we expect some relief on the AUC side? Is that second quarter next year? And then maybe Glenn you talked about some hope that AURs will be up at Old Navy.
Have you or Tom been testing any specific categories looking at some of the competitors and seeing what they're doing maybe denim? Just give us some confidence that you guys have some visibility there.
Okay.
So on the first part Brian we're not going to get too far into 2012 since it's just the Q2 call.
But certainly we're in the midst of doing some of our spring 2012 buys.
I think it's a good thing obviously that we've seen most commodities including cotton of course come way down from their peak.
I think it's important to remember though that for spring '11 when we made those purchases cotton was probably $0.90 $0.95 and today you're looking more like $1.05 $1.10.
So it's fabulous that it's come down.
It's still up year-over-year a little bit and we won't try and have a crystal ball on upcoming seasons.
But we would certainly hope when we anniversary the very sharp peaks we experienced for fall and holiday next year we're going to look at some significant easing.
But again these are volatile times in the market so it's too early to say.
And on the AUR front AUR in the business in the second quarter was up.
So we are seeing our AURs are up LY.
And just specifically about Old Navy I think when it comes to AUR and when you start stretching price points there's a lot of tools in AUR.
One is as Sabrina mentioned earlier managing inventory very tightly not only to the economic conditions but to traffic in which we're seeing that's one measurement of AUR.
Second thing to your point Brian is can you get more initial price which is what's known as everybody knows as AIR.
And I think the Old Navy team has probably been a little conservative on that front on the first half which I'm supportive off because I think we've mentioned in the last call if we felt which we did at the time but luckily we were not wrong that we were going through a cyclical change here when it comes to our input cost on cotton and we didn't want to make any midterm or long-term decisions to our most important value brand on something that's going to pass and as a moment in time.
So while there were some selected pricing decisions made in the second quarter and then probably a few more that Tom has certainly been testing and when you test these pricing challenges with your consumer in the value segment you hope they work.
And in some cases to be quite honest they don't.
And if they don't work  and you can't get the reaction you want then you have to stay at that pricing level because consumers have -- muscle memory is a lot greater than you might suspect it is when it comes to pricing in this particular environment.
And a third thing is just looking at the assortment and what do we want to do on better pricing and best pricing in terms of the assortment and Nancy has made some changes at Old Navy as all the merchants have.
But our value business which is greater than 50% of our North American business they got to be careful.
Because there is a halo effect if you start to get too much assortment in the better-best category it can be negatively viewed on your overall value proposition inside your stores.
So while I encourage them to do it and all brands are certainly doing that and making good decisions I think in our value business they should do it but be careful.
So I think that AUR up in the second quarter and hopefully that's a trend that we could count on going forward.
Your next question is from Adrienne Tennant with Janney Capital Markets.
Glenn I just was wondering internationally as you pursue that strategy how are you feeling about the strategy of franchising versus owning the stores? And then Sabrina if you can just talk about you've been very aggressive with the share repurchase activity.
Typically you guys step it up in the back half of the year when you have more free cash flow.
And I'm just wondering if we should expect ongoing aggressiveness on the share repurchase activity.
On the franchise versus corporate we agreed with our board about 3 years ago what the criteria is.
What are the criteria of each country and there's multitudes of ways to do this so what -- determine whether we should go in as a franchise operation in the channel or go in corporately.
I think I might have mentioned at a call or a conference a while back that we had this debate when it comes to Russia we had a debate when it comes to China because these are not clear decisions.
Big countries and obviously China was not only a big country with the growth and the potential.
In Russia's case when we through our criteria we decided to go franchise.
In China's case we decided to go company-owned.
We have 2 very large countries which we have not determined yet but down the road we will be faced with decisions in those countries.
That will be Brazil and that will be India.
So I think that we've made some really solid decisions right now.
I feel very good about the decisions we made in China.
The other thing worth remembering when it comes to our franchisees is we always have the option at a time of a mutual choosing between ourselves and our franchise owners to turn that into a joint venture or to take it over completely corporately which has been something Inditex has done a very good job of.
To date all our franchise arrangements continue to be franchise.
But if we felt there was a country down the road that tipped in from a criteria perspective and therefore was more appealing for us to operate on our own or in a joint venture we're happy to do that any given time.
And then with regard to the share repurchases Adrienne you're definitely right that in more kind of normalized market conditions in our history we have tended to repurchase probably more in the second half that matches our cash -- our free cash inflow.
I think this year what you've also seen from us is we've always taken a position that's opportunistic and we've always told our shareholders and investors that we try and really buy on depth more aggressively when we feel like the stock is at a particularly good value.
And I think those opportunities presented themselves in Q2.
So we were out there delivering on the same principle we always; have which is to get excess cash off of our balance sheet and utilize it.
Our authorization is $2 billion.
We're pleased we still have about $670 million left.
I think if and when we complete that authorization we will review the circumstances and conditions that exist in our company and in the market place at that time and decide whether it's appropriate to go back to our board with another ask.
Your next question is from Jeff Klinefelter with Piper Jaffray.
Glenn just a follow-up on the international comments that you made.
I mean given the growing importance and visibility of this of the growth of international both franchise and company-owned could you talk a little bit more about the profit consideration here? At some point we're going to see an inflection I think in your consolidated operating margins given the more profitable nature of some of these markets.
Can you talk about where you are what sort of contribution it's having today and at what point you could see that accelerating? Well Jeff I think the one thing we've talked about is that we really wanted to make sure that the model we went into in our new countries was different than the model we went into in the mid-1990s.
And the difference there is that we go in right now with city strategy when it comes to our high-street stores.
And then that's followed which is a very strong brand message you heard me mentioned in the call Milan Rome Shanghai Beijing Hong Kong; get really flagship locations in that city center on the right street on the right corner.
Now on to itself if we emulated that as we did in our past that alone is probably not a path to create profitability.
But when your second tier core stores which are in malls which are smaller stores in a lot of cases on percentage rent deals where the return of capital and the presentation of brand is still strong but not as strong as the flagship you further the next ring complement that with outlet stores very quickly.
So in Italy we went in 6 months after we launched the brand market it got it done we opened our first outlet store.
We're going to be opening our first outlet store in August of next year in China and the outlet opportunity in Italy and in China are going to be robust.
And last and most important to me is the online business which when you look at the numbers Sabrina gives out well I think at the last conference we were at we talked about getting our online business in the United States up to 15% by 2013.
And when I started that penetration was just about 5%.
So the key now is look at these countries and say one because it is part of our multiple brand multiple channel multiple geography strategy.
But also the outcome of that to your point is the economic return: return on sales and return on capital is so much better.
So right now early days to tell.
We like the start we've had in the 2 new countries in Italy and China.
We love our franchise business because it's what we call internally a capital-light strategy and it's cost very little to no capital for us to do what we've done.
So you've heard me on the call say that we're going to go into 7 new countries in the back half and you heard Sabrina say we'll probably do close to 75 stores this year.
That's a big program for us in the franchise business.
So it's also a different way of going in.
It's smart.
It gets the brand out there but also it's a very good return on sales and a very good return on capital.
So I think we're thoughtful and to me all this stuff starts with strategy: What are the right countries? What's the competition? Can we go in and win? Will our multiple brands that are American that stand for different things that are truly brands and not retail stores can our 3 brands as part of Gap Inc.
go in and win in these new countries? And once we feel strongly through the work we do that we can and look at the competitive landscape and do a research then coming in with the formula I just described gives a chance to produce for the total company incremental earnings.
So Glenn all in today is your international business more profitable than the domestic business? And what are your targets going forward? Yes we don't give that out.
Here's what I said before is that where we've taken a component of that formula -- Let's just give you an example Paris where we just have a city strategy selected stores core mall stores complementing it.
That is very profitable business relative to our total company business.
I'm not talking about a country.
I'm just saying we've obviously -- before we decided to go down this path we had little pockets of examples about how our international business as we roll it out could become an incremental contributor.
But we don't break out for purposes of these calls the difference between the 2.
Suffice it to say we're not in the international business just to drive sales.
Your next question is from Paul Lejuez with Nomura Securities.
Just continuing on the international theme.
Just wondering which countries you would say you've had your strongest openings.
And I guess I'm also wondering if there have been any openings where -- that you would kind of call it not so well received? Well it's mostly very positive Paul.
I mean the difference between an absolute phenomenal start like we had in Italy and maybe some odd countries very few in the franchise side where maybe we didn't register as strongly it really comes down to brand awareness.
And in Italy our brand awareness was always very strong.
I think there's a natural connection between the 2 countries obviously it's proximity to Paris and close proximity to our business in London.
So Milan and Rome both from Banana Republic and Gap have been outstanding openings.
We feel very good about that.
China I mean we said before I don't know if we -- I think we said how pleased we are.
I think we've said how it ranks in the top 5% the first 4 stores we did of the total Gap Inc.
portfolio 3 of those 4 stores in the top 5%.
That really speaks to how big the opportunity is and size of the cities in which we're dealing with.
Again the marketing we did was great.
So I think we're off to a very good start in China.
I'm looking forward tremendously to our opening in Hong Kong which is one of the best corners in the world.
We're going to open on November 1 of this year.
There's probably been a few countries in the franchise business not a lot as I mentioned earlier we're struggling in Greece right now but I think that's a common problem for everybody.
We got off to a nice start but right now it's not going that well.
And there's a few franchise businesses that didn't get off to the start we wanted.
And I think we mentioned probably well over a year ago the reason we went franchise first was to go into some countries to learn.
Learn how to open a store how does the American casual style component of Gap come through and how do we make sure that it gets registered and we win competitively.
And as we take those lessons those can easily be applied to the current countries were opening and the future countries we plan to open it.
I'm sensing you don't want to share those countries with us but just figured I'd ask again what those were.
Well let's say that in the early days of the franchise business when maybe this plan I talk to you about about going in with a great high-street store first to really identify the brand and get great traffic and great awareness from people who might be more closer proximity to the second or third store you might open some of those were in -- by the way we're on fire now in Southeast Asia.
But 4 years ago when we opened in some of the smaller countries there we had some of those issues.
We're doing very well in the Middle East right now but 2 of those countries we opened in 4 years ago didn't get off to the best starts.
But we're doing very well now which again proves to me that you're going to learn as you make mistakes.
You can recover.
And if you are willing to put the money behind it from a marketing perspective and if it doesn't get off to a good start change your real estate plan or reintroduce yourself to the customer these brands are so strong on Gap in particular worldwide but doesn't take a lot to get it back on track.
So those I'd say were 2 geographical areas around the world maybe the start was not as good as we hoped but they've since clearly recovered.
Your next question is from Dana Telsey with Telsey Advisory Group.
Glenn on the process of the business changes you've talked about changes in vendor base to help reduce the AUC pressure and the new design center to facilitate the flow of ideas between domestic and international.
Can you talk about how each of those are going how it's impacting the business and what changes you expect? Well we talked the last call coming off of the holiday buy that we were disappointed.
And that we made some decisions that going forward we wanted to make some adjustments to our supply chain.
Now some of these are not going to be happening immediately.
They're going to happen over a period of time.
But initially the first things we wanted to do was deal directly with mills as oppose to just vendors.
And I think I guess in our defense for the better part of 2 decades with the fabric pricing being pretty constant for the most part because our #1 commodity price was constant the negotiations that really took place were through vendors and through vendor relationships.
But as the commodity prices went up and yarn pricing went up we were probably less quick as we should have been to deal directly with mills.
And that's -- going forward we've made some changes to that in the New Year for the New Year buy.
We've made some changes to that 3 months ago and we're going to continue to make more changes with direct mill relationships.
I'd also say that there's some consolidation going on.
We're taking our volume as Gap Inc.
more than we have in the past.
Sometimes we do act as one total conglomerate sometimes we act as separate brands.
But in order to leverage our size I think the supply chain team has worked more closely going to meet with the vendors and offering up our entire book of business as opposed to by brand and by style.
And that is certainly something we've done going forward and want to do more of in the future.
And there's a lot of other changes that I think that I've been clear on that were probably changes we could have made a year ago but with cotton and the commodity crisis we're going through it was better to just stay as we were.
But now we've made some with a lot more to come.
When it comes to New York I mean that's a major change that we went through back in the spring putting our whole global design team our whole global marketing team which was nonexistent we created it and our global production team in New York.
And I think under Pam's leadership I'd be lying to you to say there wasn't some dark days in order to bring that together but we're in a really good place now.
The reason this was done was very clear.
This is an American brand with an American aesthetic with global aspirations.
And putting -- as I think we're going to eventually introduce that team to some people in the call today but putting them together in one office and thinking about the larger business and getting input from our Asian business from our European business from our franchise business to come into New York.
So now instead of the New York product design being 100% driven out of San Francisco it is its own independent body.
Again that takes time.
It's certainly a big shift inside the business strategically to make that the creative center for the brand.
But after 5 months I'm actually quite pleased.
I'm going to be there on Sunday meeting with the team to go through some progress.
I've not been there well over a month.
But indications to me is that we can expect some pretty good work out of New York City certainly in the spring.
But as I highlighted earlier to Janet I have some expectations that things will get slightly better in holiday.
But for spring which I will be seeing on Sunday there's certainly some good signs.
Your next question is from Betty Chen with Wedbush Securities.
Glenn I wanted to go back to the marketing topic  if we could.
I think you've mentioned that you felt the Old Navy marketing was somewhat ineffective in the first half in driving traffic.
Have you been able to get any learnings on maybe what elements of the campaigns were not effective? And also as we shift into the back half how should we think about the marketing dollars and in total and how does that breakdown by brand? And then I had also follow-up in regards to the international business.
Are you seeing any differences in the online customer base versus some of the brick-and-mortar locations? I'll just start Betty with a quick answer on go-forward spend.
So we don't give a lot of color on the marketing breakdown.
But I will tell you that for Q3 you can probably expect overall marketing to increase in the same ballpark that Q2 did versus LY.
And it probably will be driven by the same 2 divisions that drove the increase over LY in the second quarter which is namely Old Navy as we really try and get that really hyper started again and get the traffic in the door; and then also our direct business including online media spend.
So those are the 2 areas that are probably going to come up a little but it's relatively modest and within the same ballpark as Q2.
And on the marketing I'd say a couple of issues happened.
One as we switch to the new platform the actual messaging to our key customer was more about her and less about her family.
And when we do marketing that registers about her family she tends to respond quite well.
And I think that in fairness to the team and you've heard us say this before there's always this ongoing balance when you have a value brand.
I see it when I watch Target's marketing as when I watch Kohl's and other people.
There's always that balance between brand marketing and what's the strong value message.
And you've heard us that we've been trying to find that right balance.
The environment got a little worse than we have anticipated.
And the message while people thought it was good and they remembered it it wasn't anywhere near the call to action it needed to be to get somebody to get into a car and make a trip to Old Navy.
And that's critical for this business is the store is the brand.
The product defines the brand.
The people in the store define the brand and the marketing certainly tells the voice and the story of the brand.
But one thing that Old Navy will never ever lose is its value proposition.
So it has fun it has fashion it has family.
But all 3 of those are -- step on top of a foundation called value.
And sometimes campaigns that you put together are good.
But in this environment and as I mentioned earlier with what seems to me to be some slight reduction in the number of trips that our key customer's taking the value part and the aggressiveness that Old Navy can demonstrate and needs to come forward and that's the change that I would -- that's the comment that underlines the point I made on being ineffective.
So now as I mentioned to I think Janet we're making quick adjustments.
And we're going to -- I think the tapping on the edges of the platform wasn't good enough.
We had to really just get rid of it and bring something else forward in order to get the traffic that that brand deserves.
On the international front it's a little bit what I was answering earlier.
I'm not sure if it was Paul I was answering the question but no doubt about it.
We -- if you could do it all over again you would set up your structure in your existing countries and make sure your online business was set up for a much bigger share of your total business.
So as I said by 2013 in the U.S.
we're planning to get that penetration of 15%.
Sabrina and I and Katrina agree that we don't give out too much information on certain areas of our business.
What I will tell you though is that in Canada that has been opened less than a year it will get to the 10% very quickly.
While it took us 9 years to get it here in the U.S.
it will get there very quickly.
In China it's unfair to give the number because we only have 6 stores.
But say just for hypothetically if the steady-state in China was a couple hundred stores hypothetically I would be very disappointed when we had those stores if we didn't have a much more significant penetration in the mid double digits in China.
So our goal is to market it and keep driving it and keep reminding people that the stores talk about online.
And so I think that it's a different breakout of the tools and the channels the company has.
Now we're catching up very quickly in the U.S.
But the new countries or existing countries that just recently received online it's going to become a much more significant part of our business.
Your next question will be from Kimberly Greenberger with Morgan Stanley.
Glenn I think I understood fairly well in the late '90s what the casual American aesthetic was for the Gap women's customer.
I'm just wondering if you can help us understand today what that team is looking at for inspiration because it's dangerous to go back to what made Gap great let's say 10 years ago.
You've always got to move forward.
I'm sure the team's doing just that and I'm just not sure I understand exactly where Gap fits within the mall today in terms of its brand positioning.
Let's say if you're in the mall today and you're thinking of women's only then I might completely accept your comment at face value.
Let me just take it up a notch.
I think the first thing is that this is a multi-gender and multigenerational brand.
And that's key to the overall brand and women's is a big part of that business.
And I think everyone on the phone knows that we are more disproportionally invested in the women's business than most other retailers.
But I think I don't want them to lose sight of Kids and Baby of Body of men's and of women's which creates the holistic message and brand positioning for Gap.
So we start at that point and then you bring it down.
The words are important to me.
Some people may not think they are.
But American casual style and there's other words we're using to make sure the aesthetic is right is something that we've proven in a number of cities in the U.S.
even as we negative comp in the second quarter.
We have a number of stores -- and I'm not going to give you the number -- we have a number of stores and a chain of 889 stores that had very nice positive comps.
We are positive comping in a lot of places internationally franchise business as I talked about earlier.
So I think that when -- and this is what product we don't feel great about in women's.
It's off it's not on trend.
And I've sat down in New York and the team and we brought in a lot of people who were with the brand recently and people who we've added to the brand in the last year.
We've run through the aesthetic.
We looked at the competitive set.
We talked to lots of customers.
And Kimberly there's an interpretation issue we went through this spring and summer.
But the pure definition of American first and foremost casual secondly and style and there's other words.
To me that still resonates and this has not to do with going back to the past.
So we're not going to go into the bag of tricks and pull out crazy stripes.
This is not what this is about.
There's -- and I'm not sure if that was exactly the filter that drove the aesthetic in the 1990s all I know is going forward that filtering mechanism focusing on that and making sure that A it's relevant for today's consumer; secondly there's competitive advantages to it and that's the reason you open up a studio in L.A.
because under American is the word denim.
And if you're going to want to be dominating on denim you go to L.A.
you make a bold move you hire a whole bunch of great designers which is in the marketing campaign as we speak you create an environment for them to be close to the customer to develop one of the more important categories if not the most important category we have that defines American casual style.
I'm just using denim.
I could take you down back through knits.
I could take you back through to khakis and chinos.
But there's categories that just belong to that brand and that's not going back to the past.
And there's other new categories we're going to be bringing in.
So unlike you when it comes to the question when you walk the mall most recently and you run it through the filter of aesthetic and relevance and where I know the brand needs to go it doesn't register.
And this is why design guardrails and clarity is so critical in our business.
And I'm obviously the one who is 100% accountable over the last 18 months that I allowed what was coming out of New York driven by San Francisco to not deliver 100% to the filters we had in place.
I mean I don't run the brand.
But ultimately I'm accountable for anything happens in the company.
That's why I feel confident that Pam Wallack the new design team the new marketing team and the design executives from around the world we put together in Europe with the key merchants for international and North America are actually going to get that clarity and they're going to deliver it season in season out.
Because some of the brands that I have a lot of admiration for and are consistently delivering every single season are the ones that actually stick to who they are.
We know what that feels like and every now and then a brand gets off.
There's other brands who we can talk about today and I'm not going to who have gotten off recently.
It can happen.
Inexcusable.
Nobody's happy about it.
But I think you're going to see that team get back to the core part of what I just talked about the brand really stands for.
All right.
I'd like to thank everyone for joining us on the call today.
As a reminder our earnings press release which is available on gapinc.com contains a full recap of our Q2 results as well as the forward-looking guidance included in Sabrina's remarks.
And as always the Investor Relations team will be available after the call for further questions.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
My name is Kristen and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Gap Inc.
Third Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to introduce your host Katrina O'Connell Vice President of Investor Relations.
Good afternoon everyone.
Welcome to Gap Inc.'s Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
For those of you participating in the webcast please turn to Slides 2 and 3.
I'd like to remind you that the information made available on this webcast and conference call contains forward-looking statements.
For information on factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements as well as reconciliations of measures we are required to reconcile to GAAP financial measures please refer to today's press release as well as our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and our most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q all of which are available on gapinc.com.
These forward-looking statements are based on information as of November 17 2011 and we assume no obligation to publicly update or revise our forward-looking statements.
Joining us today on the call are Chairman and CEO Glenn Murphy; and Executive Vice President and CFO Sabrina Simmons.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Glenn.
Thank you Katrina.
And welcome everybody.
In a few minutes I'm going to hand the call over to Sabrina she will take you through all the key metrics in the third quarter.
She will talk about the fact that the business delivered $0.38 earnings per share slightly above consensus.
She'll certainly reference that fact the company leveraged SG&amp;A and did a good job on expenses.
She'll talk about the fact that our inventory is in decent shape coming into the fourth quarter.
She'll reference that we used $700 million in cash to buy back shares and to pay out a dividend.
Those are some of a number of financial metrics that Sabrina will take you through.
To me there's only  one metric that matters: The company had a minus 5 comp in the third quarter and that is unacceptable.
Now inside of that our Women's business had a negative double-digit comp in the third quarter and that's where a lot of energy and time is being put in by our brand presidents our senior merchants and myself to reverse that trend which is the largest contributor to the minus comp that we experienced in our business in the third quarter.
If you look at our 2 biggest brands talk about Gap brand which is as we said on the last 2 calls and at our October meeting with analysts is work in progress.
I'd like to think that when people go to stores in December they'll start seeing the beginning of some changes to the business when it comes to its aesthetic in terms of the quality of the product in terms of the acceptance of color.
They'll start to see the beginning of some changes in the month of December.
I'm feeling better about what I'm seeing coming in the spring.
So between the product improving at Gap and a global marketing platform that I think we can stand behind I'm feeling better about 2012 when it comes to Gap.
At Old Navy we are still struggling with the effects of the marketing campaign that we launched back in February.
We sunset that campaign have a brand-new campaign called Funnovations Inc.
that started this month.
We had to get back to the core of what makes Old Navy great so we made that change with our campaign.
And one more thing about Old Navy.
Just over one year ago the team at Old Navy made the decision to broaden their assortment which strategically I believe is absolutely the right decision.
Our assortment and our price points at Old Navy have been consistently too narrow.
But with the input costs faced by us and other people in the sector and with a very tough economic environment for that consumer that shift in our assortment has proven to be a bit of a challenge for our consumer.
Now we really kept tight on a lot of opening price points.
That's critical.
When you're in the value business even though the inflationary pressure from our input cost was very high in the third and fourth quarter we're still selling lots of denim on a ticketed price of $29.94.
We still believe in those price points.
The only way you can have an assortment that has more product in the best bucket more product in the better bucket is for your good bucket your opening price points to be strong.
All that means for me we have to make sure we're competitive in holiday make the right promotional decisions fourth quarter.
They're going to have to make sure that they're aggressive in their promotional offering when it comes to those products in the better and best bucket.
Now as I look at the third quarter there's a glass half-full prior to the quarter.
Our e-commerce business was up 21% in the third quarter.
We've made great investments and good decisions on mobile technology.
We've made very good decisions when it comes to online media investments we're making in marketing.
Those decisions have really helped propel a plus 21 performance.
We opened up some great Athleta stores in the third quarter and we feel very good about every location and market we've been into: in Philadelphia in Georgetown in New York City in L.A.
We're about to open up in Minneapolis.
So in the Athleta store openings and the potential for that brand we continue to feel very strong about.
Our franchise business was up 47% in the third quarter.
New countries new stores all contributing to that kind of performance.
Our China store performance from a sales perspective has been very positive.
We're very pleased with what we're seeing in China.
Sabrina will talk later on about China the investments we have to make.
Brand awareness is really strong.
The acceptance of American style is very positive.
Obviously as we said in October at the analyst conference we feel good enough we're going to open 30 new stores in 2012 but you have to invest in China.
It's a busy market.
There's lots of brands coming in and you've got to put marketing money into that business in order to make sure that long term you have a sustainable healthy profitable brand.
Now let me close by talking about Banana Republic.
We had a minus one comp in the quarter had a plus one comp in October.
And even though I know Jack Calhoun and his team wanted to do better and I think can and will do better I was encouraged by the performance of Banana Republic in the third quarter.
Now looking forward we're in a brand-new quarter.
Everybody knows the importance of the month of November and December to retail in general.
From a business perspective we all believe it's going to be a very aggressive fourth quarter.
I think we can feel that right now.
And we've already got a sense of what we're going to do on Black Friday.
From my perspective is can you find the right balance between your store business and your online business? I think that's critical.
We got to make sure that our marketing works harder that our windows are great that our store presentation is stronger than you've seen.
I know that the state of readiness is very high.
We have to make sure we're making very good decisions and that our brands and their value propositions are strong in the fourth quarter.
With that said we have 2 different streams going on in work around the business right now.
We have a lot of the organization who are working on it right now.
How do we make sure that everything we do today allows us to maximize the company's performance in the next 12 weeks? And you have another stream of work going on which is very important to me which is let's make sure all the lessons learned from 2011 get applied as many of them as possible to 2012.
Momentum matters in business.
We like the plans we put in place for 2012.
The company has not executed so far this year the way it should and the way I expected.
Everything that I talked about in Q3 that didn't go right is absolutely correctable and it will be corrected.
We're going to compete aggressively in the fourth quarter and we're going to build momentum in 2012.
Those are my goals.
Sabrina over to you.
Thank you Glenn.
Good afternoon everyone.
Our third quarter performance demonstrates a continued focus on investing in our future returning excess cash to shareholders and maintaining expense discipline.
Specifically we continued on our path of executing against our strategic goals to support our long-term growth while returning $700 million to shareholders with $645 million in share repurchases and $55 million in dividends.
And we tightly managed our operating expenses which leveraged to 40 basis points.
Please turn to Slide 4 for our earnings recap.
In the third quarter net income was $193 million and earnings per share was $0.38 down 21%.
Turning to Slide 5 third quarter net sales were down 2% to $3.6 billion.
Comp store sales were down 5% with the differential due primarily to non-comp stores growth in our franchise business and our Athleta and Piperlime businesses.
Total sales and comps by division are listed in today's press release.
Turning to Slide 6 for margins.
Third quarter gross margin was down 450 basis points.
Merchandise margins were down 400 basis points and rent and occupancy deleveraged by 50 basis points.
Third quarter gross profit of $1.3 billion was down $191 million to last year.
As we foreshadowed all year though our average unit retails were up the increase was not enough to offset even higher average unit costs.
Turning to Slide 7 for inventory.
At the end of the third quarter inventory units per store were down and inventory per store in terms of dollars was up 6%.
Please turn to Slide 8 for operating expenses.
Total operating expenses for the quarter were $968 million and leveraged 40 basis points as a percent of sales.
This includes $149 million of marketing up slightly to last year.
Please turn to Slide 9 for capital expenditures and store count.
Year-to-date we spent $416 million on capital focused on Old Navy downsizes International stores and global online expansion.
As we discussed in detail at our Investor Meeting in October in North America our goal is to reduce our square footage overall leading to strategic closures and consolidations at Gap brand and downsizes at Old Navy.
Reducing our square footage should not only provide a better shopping environment for our customers but should also support improved productivity per square foot.
Year-to-date in North America we've closed 20 stores on a net basis.
Outside North America our goal is to grow through both company operated and franchise stores.
In line with this strategy year-to-date on a net basis we added 17 International company-operated stores and 33 franchise stores.
We ended the quarter with 3 276 stores in total including franchise.
Total Gap Inc.
net square footage was down 2% compared to Q3 2010.
Regarding cash on Slide 10 we ended the quarter with $1.4 billion in cash and short-term investments.
As continuing evidence of our commitment to return cash to shareholders year-to-date we've repurchased 107 million shares for $2 billion.
Our Q3 weighted average diluted shares were $505 million.
Finally we're pleased that our board has authorized another $500 million share repurchase program.
And now I'd like to discuss our outlook for the remainder of the year.
Please turn to Slide 11.
We are reaffirming our full year earnings per share guidance of $1.40 to $1.50.
It's important to note that we continue to anticipate significant pressure on our margins.
As we said previously our average unit costs escalate each quarter during 2011 and we may therefore face our greatest merchandise margin pressure in the fourth quarter.
Here's some additional information for the rest of the year.
Regarding our store guidance while we still expect store openings to be about 125 we now expect about 150 closures versus our previous guidance of about 125.
This is due primarily to timing of Gap specialty store closures and consolidations.
As a reminder our strategy results in a Gap North America fleet size of about 950 stores by year end 2013 made up of about 700 Gap specialty stores and about 250 Gap outlet stores.
We continue to expect our full year net square footage decline to be about 2%.
Capital expenditures are still expected to be about $575 million.
Depreciation and amortization is now expected to be about $510 million with the decrease driven primarily by the Gap specialty store closures I just discussed as well as a greater number of assets reaching the end of their useful life.
Our effective tax rate is now expected to be about 40% up from our previous guidance of about 39% driven primarily by greater-than-expected startup costs associated with our China business.
And finally with regards to inventory our Q4 planned inventory unit buys are down.
Similar to Q3 we expect our inventory dollars per store at the end of the fourth quarter to be up in the mid to high-single digits.
In closing as we enter our most important selling season of the year we remain committed to executing on our financial goals while continuing to make improvements and investments in our business.
Thanks.
And now I'll turn it over to Katrina.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We'll now open up the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions].
[Operator Instructions] And your first question is from Marni Shapiro with The Retail Tracker.
Could you talk a little bit about your online business as you think about the holiday season? You've put a lot of levers in place on free shipping and different kinds of campaigns As you think about it holistically will you separate out what you're doing at Piperlime Athleta? Will you be more aggressive at Old Navy? Is it easy to do that when they're intertwined on the website? Just how you're approaching the whole business online.
It's actually -- it's not only easy to do but it's what we're doing right now.
I mean first and foremost we approach the business as this is a holistic brand Old Navy Banana Republic are a brand and we run 3 brands that's why we moved our outlet business and their infrastructure into the specialty store business at the beginning of this year to make those 2 which were previously distinct teams operate as one business because the brand matters the most.
Under Toby's leadership I think that first him and his team look at what's the right thing for the brand how can come across to customers as a business because we've learned over the last 3 years that our customers increasingly cross-shop between our online business our specialty business and our value expression of the brand.
So recognizing that we're going to make sure we are not disconnected.
Now with that said it's a unique channel.
We have a separate team that runs it.
While they buy the same product they take different tacks in terms of their marketing so we certainly have a -- because let's start with the first 2 Marni.
I mean Athleta is completely disconnected from the other 3 brands so it runs its own business.
It has its own P&amp;L and it takes different tactics than you'd see at our 3 more established businesses.
That's critical for us.
Because I think you may have heard us mention it before as we start opening stores of Athleta we start putting in new ideas new processes a brand-new operating model.
And because we believe some of the ideas and the lessons learned that Toby and Scott Key who runs our Athleta business are going to get on a smaller fleet could be applied into our 3 established brands over time.
Piperlime also completely disconnected from the business.
Obviously not a vertical business but a horizontal business.
I think now that we've added men's apparel exclusive brands private label we're stepping up our marketing.
That also is something we believe as we -- if you look at the model that's been established by ASOS in the U.K.
now they come into the U.S.
Piperlime is certainly taking on a lot of those lessons and applying it to their business.
I actually feel good about the direction and the growth we're seeing there.
And when it comes to the holiday season we know there's Merry Monday which happens before Cyber Monday and Toby and our brands will be participating through that channel aggressively.
They will be competing.
And then when you look at the third quarter you heard me say in the opening comments I mean they had 21% growth rate in the third quarter and this is one of the quarters I would actually say they had a spectacular performance because the delta between the negative comp in our specialty business and the growth in our e-commerce business is the widest I've seen in a while.
So as I was mentioning earlier we're disappointed and it's unacceptable the performance we're having at our traditional bricks-and-mortar business here domestically in North America but I will take my hat off and applaud the work that our e-commerce team has done by generating a 21% comp in Q3.
Your next question is from Brian Tunick with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I guess Sabrina any comments you could make regarding what you're seeing for AUC as we move into the spring season particularly at Old Navy? And then for Glenn it sounds like you're contemplating an aggressive Q4.
Does that mean your implied guidance for Q4 assumes you can comp let's say down mid-single digits again like you did last quarter and still hit your numbers? Brian I'll start with your first question about spring.
I think similar to what you've heard from a lot of people in our sector spring pricing is definitely better.
The underlying cotton prices are definitely down from the holiday peak.
They are however definitely still up versus spring '11 and spring '12.
But improving and as we know we're glad to see that overall cotton is staying kind of at a good position so that foreshadows good things for us as we move forward in time.
But spring '12 is definitely above spring '11.
And on the comment about aggressively competing I think there's a motherhood component.
I think everybody given the environment at which we're operating in and given in our case the situation which we're coming from with this performance in Q3 we were going to be aggressive anyways.
We've just decided particularly we'd look at Old Navy and their minus 9 comp in October we're going to have to step up our aggressiveness in the fourth quarter in order to get a better performance on everything I talked about -- or will talk about now in reference to my opening comments.
That's all assumed it's in the company's guidance.
But we've have been looking a lot at the Old Navy business.
If you look at it they comped in 2010.
They had about a give or take minus 2 comp in Q1 they had a flat comp in Q2.
And as Sabrina said Q3 and Q4 we knew that's one of the highest costs were going to be felt in the Old Navy business and greater in Q4 than in Q3.
So if you just take the numbers we guided to back in May that we said the back half our average unit cost would be up 20%.
We said the big driver of that 20% increase in the back half was our value business.
And if Q4 is greater than Q3 you can deduct pretty quickly the kind of increases Old Navy would be facing in the fourth quarter.
And our AUR in Old Navy was up in the first quarter.
It was up greater in the second quarter than the first.
It was up that much greater in Q3.
But now you get to a point where the model we put together economically at Old Navy that Sabrina and I have signed off on with AUC being up at a very high level in the fourth quarter and then you pull back units aggressively because that's the right thing to do inside the business and then you get an AUR that is intended to be up in Q3 greater than -- sorry in Q4 greater than Q3 those were the plans the business had.
Now we look at it and go we have to actually make some adjustments once again all assumed in our guidance.
You have to make adjustments to the plan we initially put together 6 months ago given the performance in October.
Because in October as we look at our business at a minus 9 obviously the aggressiveness the value proposition of Old Navy was not strong enough to generate a better performance than that.
So we're going to have to make sure we're making -- it's like this is -- you hear us talk all the time this is retail.
You put your plan together.
Consumers may respond to it or in some cases in Old Navy's case in October the comp did not respond to the level we had hoped for so we have to make some adjustments and make sure we're aggressive in terms of our pricing sharpen up our value proposition and make sure to prepare to compete in the fourth quarter.
Your next question is from Dorothy Lakner with Caris &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on the question on Old Navy.
And Glenn if you could just -- want to make sure I understood what you were saying earlier in your remarks about Old Navy and the good better best.
Is what you're saying that the better and best is a little bit too pricey for that consumer and you will need to get more aggressive in the fourth quarter? Or are you talking sort of longer-term you need to find a better balance between the 3 buckets at Old Navy? Dorothy this is the ongoing challenge of a business like the apparel sector where the timeline between when you put your plans together and you actually get your product coming in is broad.
Therefore when we planned out Old Navy's assortment and Tom Wyatt and Nancy Green made these decisions in 2011 they just looked at a price bands that were just too narrow.
And I agree with that.
Strategically as I said in my opening comments we have to broaden the bands of our pricing.
We've been testing this.
We just didn't do it all of a sudden.
We've been trying that in certain categories and we've been getting good response.
Now when you make that decision and then it was all in advance of us recognizing and understanding the kind of cost increases we would see in the business what was intended to be a band of maybe better pricing above the good of x percent greater and best pricing of x percent greater than the better pricing.
And when your costs come up at a much higher level we anticipated a year ago the answer is that as a percentage of the business these are small shifts.
We would never let any of our businesses swing the pendulum dramatically.
But  moving some of the unit assortment into better and to best which I believe is absolutely strategically correct but the pricing that's had to go into that to get a gross margin we're comfortable with in some cases is more of a challenge for our customer.
And we're hearing that.
So what I'm saying is strategically the assortment and the management of it going forward Old Navy will have to -- Old Navy will be continuing that strategy going forward.
They'll have to make some adjustments in certain categories because it's just -- particularly as cotton comes down that will be helpful to us.
We'll make some adjustments based on the learnings they've had in Q3 and in Q4.
But one data point that's worth acknowledging because we didn't take these increases and just apply them to a gross margin rate and then round up to the nearest $9.50 Old Navy last year 90% of its Women's assortment in denim 90% was priced at $29.50 or $29.94.
This year that number is just little less than 80%.
So strategically on a category as important as denim Old Navy held its price points at a much greater rate than the average unit cost would have dictated if we just allowed pricing to flow through.
So there has been strategic decisions made so I don't want people to think that we just had everything flow through based on cost increases.
But where we've moved in the right categories to more of a better best strategy some cases that hasn't worked out and we've got to make some adjustments in that price points to either promotions or through reticketing in order to move forward.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So in some categories you've made more adjustments than in others? Yes definitely Women's.
I mean if you look at some of the -- I mean this assortment shift is certainly it's broad-based.
It's in Kids it's in Baby's it's in Men's but it's certainly in Women's.
And I don't want to leave anybody with the impression that the only issue we're dealing with at Old Navy in its Women's performance as I quoted a Gap Inc.
number but applies to Old Navy which is double-digit negative comp in Q3 that the issue is broader than just consumer acceptance of the value proposition.
I'd also say and so would Nancy and so would Tom that some of the choices that were made the product acceptance is also an issue at Old Navy.
It's a combination of both.
Your next question is from Paul Lejuez with Nomura Securities.
Research Division</strong> Can you maybe give a little bit more detail on the cost that you're anticipating in China? And just wondering how does this impact when this business turns profitable for you guys? Yes Paul we said for a long time that China is definitely our longest term investment.
Meaning like when we started several growth initiatives in 2010 we knew China would take the longest to become accretive and that's actually precisely how it's turned out.
Almost every other growth initiative we've launched is now healthy performance not dilutive.
China as predicted would take some time.
So definitely dilutive this year likely dilutive next year as well because again it's a very long-term investment although we are very pleased strategically being in the country pleased with store performance.
What we know in a developing market and it's even in some areas more challenging than we envisioned doing business in a developing market is very different than a developed market.
It's taking more headcount.
It's more burdensome administratively.
So those costs are heavier than initially envisioned.
We're also putting a lot of money into marketing of course because we're trying to build our brand.
So we believe in the country we think it's really important for our long term.
As you know we are happy we're not really hugely exposed we haven't been overly aggressive with our store growth.
We should end this year with about 15 stores.
So it's not like we have been overly aggressive in our view in our exposure to it.
And as predicted we'll be dilutive given the importance of really investing correctly in the overhead structure in marketing in particular.
To add to that Paul is if we felt there was some issue in terms of brand awareness and I think Sabrina was right one of the big investments we've made and I'm actually comfortable doing it is to make sure we continue to keep up a fairly aggressive level of marketing in 2011 2012 and probably beyond.
Big country loving American brands but we have to make sure that our brand -- because a lot of new brands are coming into China and every time something comes in that is the bright shiny object.
So keeping our name front and center and really putting money behind marketing has been a strategic call we've made probably a little greater dollar investment than we envisioned 2 years ago when we first put this on a piece of paper but we are getting the benefit of brand awareness.
And if we weren't getting that we'd be the first people because most people in the call know us well that we would not be advocating and telling everybody we're going to open 30 stores in 2012 if we didn't feel the acceptance of the brand.
And the performance of the top line right now has given us the indication the motivation to double our store count from the 15 we're going to end with this year to opening 30 new stores in 2012.
Our next question is from Stacy Pak with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of follow-ups and then my question.
On the promotional sort of bend you have to take at Old Navy is it really centered in Women's or is it the whole family? I wasn't clear on that.
And if the pricing needs to be below your expectation in Q4 at Old Navy what's the offset? And then more broadly question can you comment on what you're seeing internationally particularly U.K.
and Italy weather impact what you saw during the quarter what you're seeing from that consumer ticket is there anything you can talk about? Yes all we were indicating on the call about Old Navy is that there was always a plan to be aggressive.
Old Navy has something of an association with Black Friday Thanksgiving weekend and holiday.
So there was always a plan to be aggressive.
I think what we're looking at right now is when you read the business and we got some early reads in early October as we were putting together this assortment and as I explained to Dorothy earlier and had a small shift to better and best we're not talking about anything significant here all we're doing is being transparent that when we look at that some is being accepted fine that's great because the product is right the value proposition is exactly what somebody will pay.
In some cases in this environment those are not being as accepted as well as we would have liked.
So this is -- we're targeted.
The marketing campaign and the promotional element that gets to Old Navy's value proposition for the family is absolutely intact for November December.
Over and above that in a small way we're going to have to be targeted in Women's in particular to make sure that we bring the pricing in a few categories and the small number of styles in the better and best bucket to make sure we're more competitive than we were in October to make sure we move those through.
And also what's important to me not derail the ultimate strategy which is to broaden our price point over the long run.
So you don't want anybody's perception in those few categories and few styles to hurt the overall strategy.
So by sharpening those up that will not only help for the fourth quarter but will help with the brand image for Old Navy going forward.
And Stacy just to underscore what Glenn said.
We have contemplated several scenarios in the range we reaffirmed and as I mentioned we fully anticipate continued pressure on our margin in the fourth quarter.
And I said in particular on the merchandise margins because of some of these scenarios embedded on making sure that we're being very competitive in this promotional environment we expect.
Going to Europe while we -- if you look at our business right now there's 2 things we've been doing in Europe which we still feel very confident and even though the economic situation the consumer sentiment is very difficult in the European market.
One we continue to make investments in our value business.
So our factory stores our outlet stores in the U.K.
we've opened up power centers recently.
We still believe that's absolutely the right thing to do particularly in this environment and that will continue until 2012 as well as factory stores and outlet stores in Italy.
Our online business is only a year old so we're going to make the investments as you've heard us in October for language and some other investments which we're going to make in our site to make sure it's as strong in Europe as it is in the U.S.
Those are going to continue.
With that said given everything going on and we're very happy with our Italian business right now we're fast approaching 10 stores we're being a little more careful.
It's kind of a double-edged sword I guess I would position it as.
We've got to be careful of the number of new stores we're opening up in Italy in particular rolling and opening up one store this month -- sorry early next month in Paris a Banana Republic.
Maybe that will lead to a couple more stores down the road.
But I think that's an overall more of a cautionary tone for us when it comes to our bricks-and-mortar business in the European market.
So I think that Italy is doing well and we'll add a few more definitely more stores in 2012.
We're being little more cautious.
Banana Republic I hope gets off to a great start in Paris.
So we'll watch that carefully to see if that drives us to any more stores but we are watching it carefully.
And our value business I think is full steam ahead because that makes absolute sense.
The great side about this is given the current state there's a strong chance that rents may come down.
So we may have to be opportunistic.
We'll be careful.
If we can get the right store in the right market and we notice that rents come down as a percentage of what we thought they would have been 12 months ago that would be good news.
Now we're much more focused on being cautious about the consumer than we are about being optimistic on rent but that could be one of the outcome that comes up similar to here in the U.S.
3 years ago where we were presented with opportunities we never would've had in 2007.
We were presented with opportunities in 2008 2009 given the recessionary times we live through here.
Your next question is from Lorraine Hutchinson from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Sabrina I just wanted to ask about SG&amp;A.
Dollars went down in the third quarter and that continues to be I think somewhat surprising given all the dramatic cost cuts over the past 2 years.
Can you talk a little bit about what you've been able to cut and then perhaps what's left to cut if sales don't come in in line with expectations for the next few quarters? Yes I'm glad you asked that question Lorraine.
We're really pleased with how we managed the expenses with great discipline again in the third quarter.
I definitely would caution against extrapolating that trend forward into Q4.
Just underscoring your point we definitely want to be careful in our most important biggest quarter that we're not cutting into areas like marketing and payroll.
And you know that our SG&amp;A can vary quarter-to-quarter.
So although the result was terrific in terms of leverage on a negative 5 comp in the third quarter just as a reminder in Q1 we only had a negative 3 comp and we actually didn't leverage.
Expenses were flat as the percent of sales.
So it can definitely vary quarter to quarter.
You can count on us to continue to be disciplined but I wouldn't extrapolate that strong of a trend forward or I would caution against that.
And your next question is from Barbara Wyckoff with Credit Agricole.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about the learnings of the Active categories in denim and accessories in Gap Women's? how important were they were during the fall season? And what could've been done in these categories better to drive sales? And then given the price action in the mall and the mid-market how aggressive is Gap prepared to get during the holiday season? Well on the 2 categories you highlight on Gap on the Active business we've actually been pleased.
It's in 100 stores now and I believe we're on our way to put it into another 100 stores early next year.
That's the relaunch -- sorry not relaunch the actual launch of the GapBodyFit.
And that's a sub-brand that is working well and bottoms in particular.
I would say my -- the opportunity for them and one of my concerns is that the pant launched well no different than when 1969 denim was down we didn't follow it up with all the other components that she was looking for.
But it's a good business.
I think we have a great price point of $49.50 which is relative to where some of the market leaders are that would be about 50% of their price point.
I think the stores have done a great job displaying it.
The market has been very strong.
Now like all great retailers who launch new categories how do you follow that up? What are the other categories? How do we create in the 200 stores we will have some time in 2012 how do we create a business that is much more grounded than simply in a great pant with a great fit with great fabric? So fit is something that Gap brands talk about a lot from its denim to its black pants relaunch to now the GapBodyFit.
So I think that is something that they can clearly get known for and should be reemphasizing in marketing but they need to add more categories around it.
Accessories I was sure if Mark Breitbard or Pam Wallack were on the phone right now they would say we have a long way to go in accessories.
That's not anything that we would say is a strength of the business.
We need to do a lot more work.
You'll see a little bit of that in the holiday assortment that's in right now.
You'll see some greater emphasis on the assortment category -- sorry in the accessory categories in the assortment in spring.
But I still believe very strongly there's a huge opportunity for Gap brand.
I've seen the research from customers.
I speak to people in the store.
I do know people want to complete their purchases and are looking for certain key categories under accessories that we don't deliver right now.
It may be an opportunity as we've talked about at probably these phone calls or we definitely talked about in New York at the Analyst Meeting maybe an opportunity for third-party brands.
Because certain categories are not part of the core of what Gap does and I know that our team are testing in some of our stores some third-party brands to find out whether that may be part of the overall shift in our merchandising model to complement the assortment we have today.
But I see accessories as a very big opportunity for Gap and they got to pace it in.
But I think that's -- you'll see a little bit of that in the fourth quarter and hopefully a lot more to come in 2012.
Research Division</strong> And the pricing? How aggressive is Gap prepared to get? Gap is in the malls.
They have seen throughout this year how a lot of their either direct competitors or indirect competitors -- by that I mean some of the department stores and the level of aggressiveness they've had.
What I said at the beginning and it applies to all our businesses I mean we're prepared to compete in the fourth quarter and we have to.
Last year I would say Gap was quite aggressive in November.
And we know we're putting our plans and our plans are put together now there's always a little adjustments you can make.
But what I encourage the team to do is not look at any given day or any given month that the fourth quarter is made up especially of November and December and to make sure we don't try to actually go out there in any given short period of time like in the morning of Black Friday and try to win in that 4-hour period.
Gap is a different brand.
That's not how they compete.
So we have to make sure they're offering great value but try to make sure they look at it a little more midterm and across the overall 8-week period.
Gap is much more of a brand that consumers respond to more strongly in the last week of December when people are in the mall looking for last-minute gifts.
It's a brand it's recognized it's comfortable.
So trying to learn some lessons last year where those are maybe better times to make sure that our value proposition is more than competitive is probably a better strategy than trying to win on one given day.
Your next question is from Janet Kloppenburg with JJK Research.
Glenn and Sabrina Glenn first.
I'd just like to make sure that as we listen to what you're saying about Old Navy and its pricing that there'll be some directive for the brand's pricing as we go into the spring to reflect some of the problems that you're talking about.
So if you could talk about that for a second that would be great.
And Sabrina I appreciate what you're saying about expense management but I just wanted to make sure that if top line continued to be compressed that you would be able to adjust your infrastructure costs in line with that.
Yes I'll start with the second one Janet.
So just to be clear I think we've demonstrated gosh for many many many consecutive quarters now our commitment to expense discipline.
You've been terrific at it really.
Fantastic.
Yes that's not going to change.
I'm just saying I would caution against relationships of being able to leverage 40 basis points on a minus 5 comp.
You can absolutely count on us to continue to do our best and flex all of our levers within our expense management to make sure that we stay just as disciplined as we have quarter in quarter out year in year out.
Given the step up in sales Sabrina in the fourth quarter versus the third quarter you would think there would be some leverage opportunity no? We'll continue to say Janet if we positive comp we always feel confident we can leverage both rod and expenses.
If we don't positive comp it becomes much more difficult to pull off.
And on the assortment just going back to one thing I said I think Old Navy when they had to make their decisions on pricing -- let's all admit it's been a unique time in terms of the cost increases that we've lived with.
As I referenced earlier a 20% -- increase of 20% on the AUC in the second half for Gap Inc.
driven by our value businesses that were a large part of the contributing factor for that 20% increase Old Navy has had fairly sizable increases in the third and fourth quarters.
So when you have a slight shift I want to keep emphasizing a slight shift in the assortment strategy and then you have all these increases in AUC they've had to make a lot of decisions that in fairness might be a little foreign to them.
It's the first time that probably anybody inside that business has lived through their cost of goods from year-over-year going up at 20% at a minimum inside of a business.
So they've had to make choices.
I think they made a lot of good choices as the denim example I gave earlier.
In some cases the combination of a slight shift in assortment and a significant increase in AUC your customer will give you the response and what good retailers do is to make those adjustments.
We have the ability certainly in spring to make any retail adjustment we choose to make if it's appropriate.
The assortment is the assortment.
That's done it's bought.
It's on the water or it's coming into our DC in the next 30 days.
But any pricing adjustments are definitely easy for us to make as we learned lessons from October and we'll learn more lessons from November December.
Your next question is from Jennifer Davis from Lazard Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you guys could talk a little bit about -- well you've talked about Jennie at Old Navy.
So I was wondering if you could talk about your target Gap Women's customer like who she is what does she want from Gap? And if you've done any focus groups what she thinks she likes what she doesn't like and what she wants from Gap? Well probably Tom and his team talk about their customer more than any of our brands.
I wouldn't say that's because they know it any better but it's a large part of the personality of Old Navy and how Old Navy can compete in a value business without having to necessarily just be the lowest or finding a way to make sure they have very strong aggressive pricing but also bring the personality of Old Navy alive as you referenced for Jenny because that's how she responds very well whether that's store environment whether that's the type of marketing we put forward whether that's unique categories you put into the store whether that's the type of people we hire.
So I think that that gets a lot of airtime as it should because Tom is in the value business and you can't strictly compete on price.
Some people can but long term Old Navy's multiple personalities are critical for its success.
At Gap and Banana Republic both Art Peck Stephen Sunnucks internationally Jack Calhoun have all done the same work.
Who's their customer? Exactly what do they believe in? What is our positioning with them? So when it comes to Gap the number one thing that we are working on to make sure that customers see one is this is a customer that has multiple opportunities.
We don't have any other business like this where you really are going after customer who's about Kids and Baby.
And even inside the Kids and Baby you would get somebody who comes in for the gift aspect of Baby.
So you have a very broad customer base and that's why it's always dangerous when you talk about Gap.
And I know we've done it to make sure that our design teams are focused by talking about a 28-year-old to make sure the teams are focused.
But to me Gap is a very broad brand.
And that is Kids and Baby and that is the Women's and the Men's business.
So making sure that we acknowledge that not try to be too narrow.
Some people see that as a risk and I see that as one of the advantages of the brand is that it has that.
The second thing about -- besides this broad customer that it appeals to is something we have not done as well this year and that's the missed opportunities the aesthetic of the brand because it still resonates very strongly when it's done right.
And we did a 1969 relaunch 2 years ago.
When we go after the optimistic American casual style we hit that right as we did on denim.
Then customers resonate with that.
It is ultimately there's an association with a brand when it comes to aesthetic and there's definitely a demand for it inside of the marketplace.
There's other people we compete against I get that.
We're never going to have a monopoly.
But those 2 in combination which is the broader demographics even though there's a central approach by design of a 28-year-old but looking at these mobile categories and then making sure that the aesthetic which has been a shortcoming of our team this year in 2011 is hitting the sweet spot of optimistic American casual style.
Your next question is from Christine Chen with Needham &amp; Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> Glen maybe you could share with us sort of your philosophy on how you want to use promotions.
We've seen you go back and forth between the broad-based promotions where the entire stores is a certain percentage off versus targeted categories.
And I'm just wondering what do you find more effective and is the goal really to drive traffic or is the goal to kind of leave the customer wanting more and maybe trying to drive full price selling in the better -- better categories? And I'm sure it differs by brand.
That's a big question that I don't have time for a fulsome answer but I will say to you that I don't think we've necessarily changed.
I think there's nothing wrong -- and I'm not trying to be defensive here I'm just trying to give an explanation -- that in no time certainly I've been doing this for 25 years in no time has the environment been as erratic and volatile as it's been.
And that's caused retailers including us to make sure you're make adjustments in how you present.
What's your voice of your brand? So I always go to what's -- ultimately what's your value proposition? Secondly what's your brand positioning? And then what's the brand platform you're going to use to go and tell to the consumer why come in to GAAP Old Navy Banana Republic? Either you're telling them externality or when they're inside the mall what are you telling them that this is the day they need to come in? If you were to rank them because you mentioned it no question one of the strongest reasons that you do promotional activity which I'll talk to you in a second is not only about that discounting as a percentage of but one of the number one reasons you send a message in your window you send an email you run something in the magazine you use television is to get people inside your store.
Now there's a brand enhancement component to that.
But you'll see at Old Navy when we try to talk about the brand a little bit more in the first 3 quarters of this year we still mentioned value but it was a brand message first and a product message second.
And the value part of the Old Navy communication in the old campaign we had value was the third most important message in the order of what we did for the campaign.
It did not work.
So you're right.
Every brand is different.
It comes down to if you went through that hierarchy I just went through what's the health of your brand and how do you use promotions which could be again multifaceted.
It could be about a gift card.
It could be about a giveaway.
It could be about a promotional percent.
It could be a friends and family message.
So this starting today for Old Navy for the next 5 days is redemption time and something they're calling super cash.
Spend $20 get $10.
So there's different levers they have to be right for the brand that hopefully are innovative I would say from a marketing perspective and I believe that strongly it's something hopefully your competitors are either unwilling or unable to do.
And so we put that all into sort of a pool of opportunities and a menu for each brand that's different and how they want to come forward over a 52-week period.
Now 2008 and 2009 and 2010 have certainly been much more promotional from a pure discount perspective for Banana Republic and Gap as we would like.
We had to compete.
We had to make sure that we didn't get left behind.
You've seen other brands who probably never promoted for the longest period of time and now they're promoting.
We are working hard at to make sure that anything we do in those 2 brands in particular they're innovative they're different and that we move over time as the consumer environment improves to less and less of a dependence on a percentage off as one of the tools in our toolkit.
Your next question is from Erika Maschmeyer with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk about your thinking around your additional store closures what the catalyst was there? And can you give us any sense of the characteristics of the 150 stores that you're closing this year versus the rest of the base in terms of productivity or profitability and how many of these closures are consolidations versus just pure closures? And then also how are you thinking about Old Navy remodels for next year? That's a whole host of questions and I can probably pull a bunch of detail and take you through that offline.
But I'll tell you at a high level the additional -- because the only real news here right is that we're closing 25 more stores and that's principally Gap specialty stores.
And that really is all under the same strategic umbrella we have laid out.
So it's just that we've accelerated the timing opportunistically given some of the discussions with our landlord.
We have a lot of short term keepers.
I think at Analyst Day in October I got the opportunity to speak to some of you one-on-one.
To talk about the path to the 700 Gap specialty stores is made up of quite a few stores that we've had on our list of underperforming stores which doesn't mean that they're losing money by the way on a four-wall basis.
It's just means that the contribution is very very low and the return's low.
But many of those we've kept short term because our landlord have wished us to stay a little bit longer and we've negotiated some good rents in the short term.
So it's really that group of short term keepers that we just had opportunity to say quite frankly it's not worth continuing to put the payroll and energy and resource into those stores to just keep them open 5 6 more months whatever.
So it's just timing really.
So there's no big news around the closures.
And on the Old Navy remodels we don't have the final number just yet.
We've been averaging give or take 100 stores a year.
A lot of what we've done -- and they'll finish this year around 375 stores under their new prototype.
A lot of what we've done have been reductions in space which everybody knows we've had a goal since the new management team has been in place to not only close stores but dramatically reduce the square footage we have.
So we're pleased with it.
It's going well.
I think as I said earlier to a question that came up it really helps define the personality of what Old Navy stands for and when you go to that store it's unique against people that compete on directly who their goal is to go out there and compete and steal market share.
I think it's a unique store experience.
So we'll do more next year.
Probably less and less of these reductions in space there's still going to be some probably be less over time.
So -- and we've always said day one there's never been an intention that the whole fleet is going to get done.
That's 1 000 stores.
We don't see the need to put the new look into 1 000 stores.
So we'll see how our real estate team does and how it plays out.
We have the capital available to do another range of stores -- another tranche I mean.
And how big? We'll know in the next 2 to 3 months.
Your next question is from Evren Kopelman with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> My question is on inventory strategy as you look out given your comp trends have been soft but you're optimistic about some of your initiatives into the spring season.
How should we think about your inventory strategy for the next season? Well Evren we only do that one quarter at a time so we'll give you a lot more color on our Q4 call about 2012.
We've told you that we expect to end the fourth quarter similar to the third quarter basically.
But overall philosophically what we want to do is never like get too far ahead of demand in terms of inventory.
And that's why we put a lot of focus on our fast pipeline and enhancing our ability to chase.
And really that's the vehicle that is momentum gained because you're right we do feel like as we move into 2012 our assortments are improving.
And as that momentum improves we're going to initially buy fairly tightly as we have been buying this year and then use that ability to chase and use our fast pipeline to increase the inventory.
And your final question is from Kimberly Greenberger with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I'm wondering if you can comment about the direct sales growth.
You indicated Gap old Navy and Banana were all been positive.
Has that been consistent all year or was there a change in trend? And lastly on your balance sheet you're showing now about $240 million of net debt cash net of debt.
It's the first time we've seen that since Q1 of '03 and I'm wondering if you can just talk about how you think about the leverage on your balance sheet and what level strikes you as comfortable? Well I'll start with the second part Kimberly.
So we are very comfortable with our capital structure.
We raised some debt for the first time in a very long time in the spring opportunistically.
For a company of our size $1.650 billion which is our total debt level is not -- does not feel at all imprudent to us.
In our history we've carried much more leverage than that.
What we have continued to say is from a cash perspective we want to continue to be conservative with our balance sheet.
We want to continue to hold on cash on our balance sheet.
$1.2 billion is our cash target.
And we're comfortable that that's plenty to fund all of our working capital needs.
As you know most of our debt 1250 of the debt is in a 10-year bond so it's very long term money.
And then we have that smaller tranche of $400 million which is a short term piece or a shorter term piece it's term loan of which only $40 million is due every year.
So we're very comfortable with our capital structure and we think the leverage we took out actually helped optimize our weighted average cost of capital.
And on the online we don't -- as you know we don't give out information disclose that.
What I can say is it would be very rare on any given month or quarter for one of our brands to make negative comp online.
I mean the online business is growing somewhere dependent on the year growing between high-single digits to low-double digits.
And that's how the Apparel Online business is growing at that level.
So one thing we've been very pleased with -- I was obviously throwing a compliment to our team at the online lead by Toby Lenk and he certainly deserved the complement I think I've said a number of times on these calls and at meetings is that they've been a perennial market share gainer in the whole time I've been there.
And again take out and given month but on a year-in-year-out basis relative to the growth of e-commerce in apparel they've been a market share gainer and we feel very good about that.
The challenge for them is that the best -- the way for them to maximize their growth and their sales is for our brands to have great product be healthy.
And the healthier our brands are in the physical manifestation of the brand the better we do e-commerce.
So I was trying to say earlier a 21% total growth for online business in a quarter in which we're quite disappointed in our sales in bricks and mortar I was impressed with.
I'd like to thank everyone for joining the call today.
And as a reminder our earnings press release which is available on gapinc.com contains a full recap of our Q3 results as well as the forward-looking guidance included in Sabrina's remarks.
And as always the Investor Relations team will be available after the call for further questions.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
My name is Doris and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Gap Inc.
Fourth Quarter 2011 Conference call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to introduce your host Katrina O'Connell Vice President of Investor Relations.
Good afternoon everyone.
Welcome to Gap Inc.'s Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
For those of you participating in the webcast please turn to Slides 2 and 3.
I'd like to remind you that the information made available on this webcast and conference call contains forward-looking statements.
For information on factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements as well as reconciliations of measures we are required to reconcile to GAAP financial measures please refer to today's press release as well as our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and our most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q all of which are available on gapinc.com.
These forward-looking statements are based on information as of February 23 2012 and we assume no obligation to publicly update or revise our forward-looking statements.
Joining us on the call today are Chairman and CEO Glenn Murphy; and Executive Vice President and CFO Sabrina Simmons.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Glenn.
Thank you Katrina and good afternoon everybody.
In a few minutes I'll hand the conference call over to Sabrina who'll take you through 2011 highlights and also talk to you about our guidance and some key metrics for 2012.
So before we get to that I want to take you through a couple of thoughts I had on this past year and also talk to you about where I see 2012 in terms of the company's strategic plan and what investments we see ourselves making in the upcoming year.
In spite of 2011 earnings being below last year we actually did make quite a bit of progress against our strategic plan.
So we have 2 key initiatives that Gap Inc.
has been pursuing for the last 4 years that make up our strategic plan.
The first key initiative is to reduce our dependency on our North American specialty bricks and mortar business.
So we did accomplish quite a bit on that front in 2011.
First off we grew our online business of penetration to our total sales by 2 percentage points.
The second thing we did is we reduced our specialty square footage by over 4% while at the same time growing our outlet square footage domestically by 4%.
We closed 65 stores domestically and we opened up 8 Athleta stores very successful I may add and that makes us feel very good about our future for 2012 and beyond.
The second area which we made quite a bit of progress is our move to expand our brands internationally.
At the beginning of the year we operate in 31 countries combination of franchised and company-owned stores and we ended 2011 by operating in 39 countries.
In China we opened 10 stores.
We finished the year with 14 stores and feel very good about the progress we're making in China particularly in Hong Kong.
And in 2012 we have a plan right now to open 30 stores.
Franchise business where we opened 50 stores and good performance were seen in our franchise business and we grew total year 2011 at greater than 40% and we see an opportunity to open at least 50 stores in 2012.
We added global outlet into Italy in Japan in the U.K.
and we'll be taking our global outlet business to China in the fall of 2012.
And lastly Banana Republic opened up in Paris in the Champs-lyses and a beautiful store and that will be the beginning of Banana Republic expanding into France.
As we come into 2012 our goal clearly is to advance our strategic plan in this fiscal year while at the same time improving our sales and earnings profile of the corporation.
So in order to ensure success one of my key mandates through 2011 was to make sure the business took appropriate corrective measures in some key areas to make sure we can deliver on that latter goal of improving our sales and earnings profile in 2012.
So there's 4 areas that we've been focused on in the last fiscal year: product; our assortment; our marketing; and our supply chain.
So let me first talk about product.
Probably the biggest change we made throughout the year in 2011 was the creation of the Gap Global Creative Center in New York City.
That was the bringing together from a domestic and international perspective design marketing and production to create one amazing hub of creativity at New York City for all of our stores around the world.
Really the first output from that team just showed up in our stores globally 2 weeks ago.
I really like the progress I've seen that's come out under Pam Wallack's leadership in New York.
The other changes have been quite a bit of investment in people to make through the year and continue to make going forward.
The first one that came out was the creation of this Creative Advisor role.
Tracy Gardner joined us about 4 weeks ago.
We just announced that Jill Stanton will be Creative Advisor at Old Navy.
Jill has an amazing background in Next Marks &amp; Spencer and Nike globally.
This is a new role but it's critical to me to get to consistent product execution.
One of the conclusions we came to through the year is we need to add this role to work with our designers and create a nice bridge between the design teams and the merchandising teams.
So really quite a bit of development along product.
With everything we're doing the goal is clear here.
We need to have consistent product execution every quarter every year across all our brands.
We focused on assortment at the latter part of 2011 and probably driven by the spike in cotton pricing in value businesses.
We got a little off balance between basics and fashion and also we got a little bit off between our opening price point product and our best product.
Those changes have been made and Old Navy's assortment will be much better balanced between the areas I talked about coming into April and May.
Marketing was quite a bit of work in 2011.
I'm really excited.
If I look at all of our brands we are either starting the year with a brand new marketing platform or a modified platform in order to make sure we get a great return for our marketing and really drive brand equity and traffic.
So Old Navy we modified the Funnovations Inc.
platform that we introduced in November and the real modification is make sure the product shows up better.
I mean it's a great platform.
It's so Old Navy but the product doesn't show up as well as it should.
Those modifications are being made.
Brand new platform at Gap came out 2 weeks ago Be Bright.
It's a global campaign and we really think we have a great idea.
Banana Republic you'll see in the marketing that came out this spring a real focus on what we're calling internally new work.
The marketing is about that.
It's showing up in the windows.
It's showing up in store.
How does Banana Republic as it did a decade ago redefine what work is.
And Athleta came out with a brand new platform called Power to the She.
Very appropriate for the Athleta business as we add from our 10 stores we currently have and add 25 new stores in 2012.
The campaign is going to be so important for that.
And lastly we made some adjustments to our supply chain.
We brought our distribution and logistics team together and merged it with our sourcing team to create one supply chain team lead by Colin Funnell our Executive Vice President of Supply Chain.
Same time we also changed how we go to market.
For years we've had a geographically based hub structure and we moved to category teams and we've added a lot of new talent.
New leadership in India new leadership in Hong Kong.
That's critical to make sure that our supply chain efforts in 2012 and beyond really bring great value to the corporation.
And lastly as I do every year on the February call I have to talk about the investments the company wants to make in 2012 once again to support its strategic plan.
Look SG&amp;A to me has 2 really distinct components inside of it.
There's a fixed component which the company needs to spend every single year and there's a variable component.
And the time we spend as a management team is always discussing in advance of a new year where are we going to place our bets where are we going to invest money not only to achieve our strategic plan but to get a great return and to drive sales and earnings inside the business.
Examples of that were in 2010 where the highlights of that year were about China at about global online.
Last year we talked about opening up Italy and expanding our Athleta business.
So as we enter 2012 we're going to continue with our international expansion.
But what you're going to hear a little differently is that we're going to have a focus on putting some money back into our domestic business in 3 key areas: in product; in marketing; and in e-commerce.
On the product front like a lot of other people in the industry we expect to get some tailwinds in our cost of goods in the second half of 2012.
So we made some decisions that we're going to make some investments very targeted very specific in categories we know we can dominate on where we can get a point of differentiation and really the focus for me is categories I believe are assets of the corporation.
So that's been the filter we're using.
We want to make sure we get savings from the reduction in costs but we're going to make some targeted investments and that's really going to benefit our domestic business.
So key categories in Banana Republic Old Navy and in Gap brand is investment we're going to make in 2012.
We're going to put some money behind Gap brand marketing.
The time is right.
We really believe in our team at the Gap Global Creative Center.
And we're going to be putting some money behind marketing for the new platform called Be Bright around the world but a real focus here in North America.
I think Art Peck and his team have done a lot of work in 2011 to position them not only to drive our brand equity but to make sure we're out there telling customers about it week in week out month in month out season in season out.
That's very important for Gap brand.
And lastly we're going to put some money as we have really the last couple of years but even a stepped-up amount behind our e-commerce business.
We opened up a new distribution center in 2011.
So we're going to have those costs to carry forward for all of 2012.
But the real investment is in mobile.
Our mobile platform has done extremely well.
We have a lot of new ideas innovative ideas coming out from Toby and his team.
And the last area which is really about global is we're going to create a brand new global IT platform.
Now when you open up in Italy and China and some of the other plans we have for the business going forward you have to be strong in IT and you have to be strong in supply chain.
It's going to take us a number of years to get done to really create and build a brand new global IT platform.
So we enter 2012 everybody here at Gap Inc.
very focused on what we have to get done.
We know what needs to be done and we're very motivated as we come into the year to make sure that we take all of our brands to a new level and perform well domestically and internationally across every brand every channel and every geography.
So with that said let me hand it over to Sabrina who will take you through the financial highlights and I'm going to come back after that and answer any questions from the analysts.
Sabrina? Thank you Glenn.
Good afternoon everyone.
I'll begin today with a review of our fourth quarter and full year results and then provide an overview of our outlook for 2012.
Although 2011 was a challenging year it's worth pointing out some bright spots in our performance.
Throughout the year we delivered higher average unit retails enabled by our disciplined inventory management.
While continuing to invest in our long-term growth initiatives we tightly managed our operating expenses which leveraged 30 basis points.
We generated $800 million in free cash flow and finally we distributed $2.3 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
Please turn to Slide 4 for our earnings recap.
In the fourth quarter net earnings were $218 million and earnings per share were $0.44.
Full year net earnings were $833 million and full year earnings per share was $1.56 down 17%.
Turning to Slide 5 sales performance.
Fourth quarter total sales were $4.3 billion down 2%.
Full year total sales were down 1% to $14.5 billion in comparable sales which include the associated comparable online sales were down 4% for the year.
Total sales and comps by division are listed in our press release.
Turning to Slide 6 gross profit.
Since Q1 of 2011 we laid out our view that margins would contract significantly during the year driven by the sharp escalation in average unit costs especially in the back half.
Further we also said that we would deliver average unit retails up but not up enough to offset the increase in average unit costs.
The year did indeed play out this way.
For the fourth quarter gross margin was down 540 basis points to 32.8%.
Merchandise margins were down 500 basis points while rent and occupancy deleveraged by 40 basis points.
Gross profit was $1.4 billion.
For the full year gross margin was 36.2% down 400 basis points.
Merchandise margins were down 370 basis points and rent and occupancy deleveraged by 30 basis points.
Gross profit for the year was $5.3 billion down 10%.
Turning to inventory on Slide 7.
Given the high average unit costs this year we managed our inventory units down so that our total inventory dollars per store remained reasonable.
We're pleased that at the end of the fourth quarter as indicated on our January sales press release inventory per store in terms of dollars was about flat.
Please turn to Slide 8 for operating expenses.
Given the decline in our gross margin dollars we responded to mitigate the impact to earnings by managing our expenses tightly.
And even as we continued to invest meaningfully in our international growth initiative we leveraged Q4 operating expenses by 60 basis points.
For the fourth quarter total operating expenses were $1 billion.
These expenses include $166 million of marketing up slightly to last year.
For the full year total operating expenses were $3.8 billion down $85 million from the prior year and leveraged as a percent of sales by 30 basis points.
Full year marketing expenses were $548 million up $32 million to last year.
Please turn to Slide 9 for capital expenditures.
Full year capital expenditures were $548 million focused on international and the associated IT investments global online and Old Navy downsizes.
In line with our articulated strategy in North America we continued to reduce our square footage through closures and consolidations at Gap brand and downsizes at Old Navy.
For the year we closed 65 stores on a net basis and decreased square footage by 1.3 million square feet in North America.
Outside of North America we grew through both company-operated and franchise stores.
On a net basis we added 33 international company-operated stores and 49 franchise stores.
Total Gap Inc.
net square footage was down 2.6% compared to last year.
Store count and square footage by division are listed in our press release.
Regarding cash on Slide 10.
We generated strong free cash flow defined as cash from operations less capital expenditures of $800 million and we repurchased 111 million shares for $2.1 billion at an average price of $18.88.
Our level of share repurchase for the year was higher than usual enabled by our capital raising in the first quarter of 2011.
We ended the year with 485 million shares outstanding.
Now I'd like to share with you our outlook for 2012.
Please turn to Slide 11.
We expect earnings per share for fiscal year 2012 which includes the 53rd week to be in the range of $1.75 to $1.80 and operating margin to be about 10%.
Underlying that guidance are the following priorities: improving sales with healthy merchandise margins; investing in our business while maintaining discipline; and returning excess cash to shareholders.
With regard to improving sales and delivering healthy merchandise margins.
It's our objective to drive modest top line growth through the stabilization of our base businesses and a continuation of our global growth initiatives which are focused on our online outlet and franchise channels.
Moving to margins.
Clearly cotton inflation had a significant impact on our average unit costs in 2011.
As is commonly known in the sector spring 2012 costs are up though up less than holiday 2011.
We are fairly confident that average unit costs will improve in the second half of 2012.
However we've just begun to purchase the back half and are still finalizing our assortment and reinvestment decisions.
Therefore some uncertainty exists regarding precisely where costing will land.
Our second priority is investing in our businesses while maintaining discipline.
As Glenn discussed after 5 years of extremely disciplined expense management coupled with a focus on international growth we are going to be investing more in our domestic businesses.
As a result of that it's unlikely we will leverage operating expenses in 2012.
We'll obviously temper the level of investments depending upon our momentum and our likely returns and we will update you as we proceed throughout the year.
With regard to inventory we plan to continue to manage inventory units in a disciplined manner and expect inventory dollars per store to be about flat at the end of Q1.
Our third priority is returning cash to shareholders.
As I mentioned our 2011 share repurchases were higher than usual due to our capital raising.
In 2012 we expect to return to a more normalized pace of share repurchases.
And today we announced a $1 billion share repurchase authorization.
In addition we plan to increase our annual dividend by $0.05 to $0.50 per share representing a payout of nearly 30% of net earnings.
Please turn to Slide 12 for a summary of the guidance I just provided and some additional full year 2012 metrics.
Regarding company-operated stores.
Net of repositions we plan to open about 125 stores and close about 115.
Store openings are weighted toward international and outlets while store closures are weighted toward Gap specialty stores in North America.
We expect net square footage to decrease by about 1%.
We expect capital expenditures to be about $600 million and depreciation and amortization to be about $475 million.
And finally we expect our full year effective tax rate to be about 39.5%.
In conclusion as we enter a new year we're committed to growing earnings per share while strategically reinvesting in the business.
Thank you and now I'll turn it over to Katrina.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We'll now open up the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] [Operator Instructions] Your first question is from the line of Christine Chen with Needham &amp; Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask as you think about your -- the improved product and your inventory levels how are you going to balance trying to regain market share and attract traffic versus promotions and the margin hit? There is a lot in there.
What I would say is that we talked in the opening comments about a number of things.
One we are making some investments in our product.
And again we're being selective we're being targeted we're making them in some key categories across all our brands.
And then what probably wasn't clear in the opening comments then if you do that that's part of the driver as to why you're seeing us put a little bit more marketing money in our domestic business because if you're going to do that we have to go out either through the windows in store through social media through other tools to let people know that we have either done -- made some investments in key categories like suiting up Banana Republic and there's a list of categories we believe in across all our brands.
I believe that's going to generate some attention from customers and turn into traffic for our stores such as one area in which we're doing that.
In terms of promotional activity I think that we're always challenging our teams and last year was not necessarily our best year on this front.
We were much better at this in 2010 just finding the innovative really differentiated marketing value proposition to bring people into the stores.
If you look at something Old Navy started in 2012 was called Super C-A-S-H.
I think ideas like that that Gap can have a version.
Banana Republic Athleta and of course Old Navy and our outlet stores need to always find what's innovative what's unique what does a customer really respond to? I think those 2 things in combination should be enough to at least give us an improvement on the traffic trajectory that we were disappointed in in 2011.
And I guess all I'll add Christine is on the inventory front.
As I mentioned in my remarks we do want to deliver modest top line growth with healthy margins.
So that means we really want to watch our inventory and keep it tightly managed and we'll continue to do so as the year progresses.
It will be a great thing if we end up having to chase some inventory because demand begins exceeding the inventories we have.
But we'll see how that goes.
But the intention is to definitely deliver healthy margins and keep the inventory tightly managed.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then I guess just what I've noticed in the stores it seems like you're backing off on promotions for the broader audience.
But for cardholders the promotion seemed to be a little bit more compelling.
Or is that just might bias for you because I have your card? Yes.
I don't know if they're more committed but probably what you're seeing if you're a frequent buyer in the company you're probably seeing more money being spent directly to talk to whether through e-mail or through CRM.
Again that's part of the marketing investments that I was talking about in the opening comments.
And there's an overall move we've been going through at a pace that maybe I'd like to see us accelerate in 2012 which is a little bit more towards person casting and less about broadcast media.
That takes a while and there's tools out there.
We've actually developed our own proprietary tools in some cases to be able to speak to people directly and not just rely on broadcast media.
So that also may be affecting your bias.
And your next question is from the line of Michelle Tan with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Sabrina or Glenn I was wondering if you could put a little bit more kind of numbers behind or ranges behind the kind of marketing investments you're thinking about making over the course of the year is it up low-single digit in terms of budget or are we thinking bigger investment offset by other areas of savings again? And then Sabrina if you could just give us if you can a depreciation number for the year.
Yes the depreciation and amortization was $475 million Michelle and it's on the slide there.
Research Division</strong> I meant for '12.
Is that the...
Yes that's the number for '12 yes.
Now with regard to the rest of your question I guess what I would say is we're trying to be helpful by signaling it's likely that we'll deleverage operating expenses for the full year.
The reason we're not articulating precise amounts is quite frankly because the amount and pacing of some of that spend is really going to flex and depend on our momentum and our confidence in the product in the momentum of the business and that those investments will deliver a return.
So a lot of this has yet to unfold.
I hope what you can count on us on is to manage all of those levers responsibly and our commitment is really around delivering on that EPS range we put out there.
And just to build on my last answer some of the marketing we're putting in front to our customers is in some new media that we probably have not put as much money behind in the past and what we haven't decided to do just yet is make that a brick-in break-out [ph] investment.
But of course if we can get through the person casting and through the new media work we're doing some proprietary tools that we built in the latter part of 2011 get the traction we want to get then we can forego and reduce on some of the traditional broadcast media we've had.
So we're going to see how that plays out just like Sabrina said.
Yes.
And in Q1 in particular since we're in this quarter to be helpful I will tell you we are making those investments and you should expect marketing to be up in the quarter and it's driven by what Glenn outlined.
And your next -- I'm sorry [Operator Instructions] And your next question is from the line of Laura Champine with Collins Stewart.
Research Division</strong> My question is really on the fashion side.
I mean Glenn can you talk about what you're seeing that gives you some confidence in the new product that you got launching this spring and later this year? I can't comment directly on how it's performing inside the store.
What I can say is that and I could take an exhaustive answer here and go brand by brand but it was commented at the beginning of the call on product.
The change we made in New York City was that was a seismic shift for us because it really is bringing together the domestic design teams the international design teams under one full global design team in New York City for Gap.
So that team worked for about 10 months together.
They worked through processes and we had to make sure we're all aligned on our global aesthetic and there was work being done.
We'd all agreed 2011 was not our best foot forward at Gap.
So that work just showed up in the store on February 10 a little later in some of our global markets but February 10 in North America.
Then -- so there's a lot in there that I feel good about.
The work from in terms of the talent and bringing together those 2 teams then the addition of the Creative Advisor role under Tracy.
I'm starting to see at least and I was in New York just recently how they're working together what decisions from a fashion and basic the balance of the assortment and the decisions those teams are making.
I think they're really crystal clear on the aesthetic going forward.
The Banana Republic team they start going through not the same seismic shift that went on at Gap but they addressed some of their concerns in Women's and obviously because there's a reported number that helped.
The Banana Republic team have a 6 comp in January.
I believe they've been on top of making the changes they needed to make about 6 months ago.
And there's some similar changes going on at Old Navy.
So all in all with the trends in the marketplace which are really highlighted by a real focus on color and demand of color given our brands and what the American aesthetic they stand for and the work that we've done to actually take corrective measures because we keep saying internally that anybody can have a good month.
We don't want to perform well and above where we've been which is our commitment based on the fact we're just lucky on a trend.
We want to actually make changes in the business that affect our business performance.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just as a follow-up.
When you talk about investing in the product this year is that on -- would you expect that to happen more on the fashion product or on the basic side? The focus is really on what do we feel good about from a category perspective.
We can dominate on we can differentiate the marketplace.
The word I always use is what are the assets of the company.
So one of the examples that we're going to be putting because we've tested some of these things.
We haven't just done it starting this year and it's going to happen throughout the year is babyGap.
Clearly an asset of the organization that cannot be commoditized and where it makes sense in key categories our design teams have put the case forward that they can get paid for which is another filter you have to go through in my book and put the investments behind it.
There's different ways to judge the success of products but one of them is just are the fabrics right? And is it actually in keeping with where you look at your competitive set or will your customers actually notice it and most importantly will they pay for it? [Operator Instructions] And your next question is from the line of Roxanne Meyer.
Research Division</strong> My question is regarding the international business.
It's obviously a key strategic priority that you're clearly excited about.
Huge global opportunity.
Can you help us appreciate how -- some of the metrics that you're seeing with your international business how it's performing how some of the comp classes have been doing for us to really get excited about the promise as we move throughout the years? Roxanne I'd say 2011 was a bit of a mixed bag.
So if I start at the top we feel very good about our franchise business.
We opened up in 8 new countries in 2011.
We had greater than 45% growth 50 stores.
And as Sabrina mentioned in her comments we'll do at least 50 stores in 2012.
So I feel really good on the franchise team our franchisees so that's one piece.
China I also feel very good about.
14 stores operating 30 more stores to open in 2012.
Opened in Hong Kong in November was a -- it's been a very successful opening for us.
Opened in 2 other cities Tianjin and Hangzhou so now we're in 5 cities in China 5 more cities to happen.
So we'll close 2012 with 10 cities which we're going to operate and in also feel very good.
The Japanese businesses is difficult for us to gauge given the incredible disaster they faced in 3/11 last year and we have a big business in Japan.
I'll have a better sense of that coming into later in the spring and in the summer.
But I like what the team is doing.
I think -- I happen to know the work being done in the Gap Global Creative Center is resonating well with the Japanese team.
Some of the product has not got to our customer yet but our team likes what they're seeing.
Our Banana Republic business is going to probably expand by a few stores in 2012.
That's been on hold for a few years.
I think that's good news and we'll open up Old Navy Japan on July 15 just outside of Tokyo.
That leaves us with Europe.
And our European business like a lot of other companies was soft in 2011.
The team there is very aware of it.
We have a small business in Italy.
So really what we're talking about for us is France and the U.K.
Austerity measures were tough but we just were not good enough in 2011.
The product globally at Gap women's that hurt our overall global Gap business particularly hit our business in Europe hard did not register at all with the customers.
Again women's product in the European markets which we operate.
So too soon to tell.
That's going to be a tough market.
That's a wait-and-see for us.
We're going to be very careful on capital be very careful on our investments.
We still believe in Europe but we're going to be watching it quite closely the next 12 months.
And your next question is from the line of Ed Yruma.
Research Division</strong> This will be the least amount of square footage growth or excuse me the lowest amount of square footage declines you've had in some period of time.
Is it fair to say that at this point you feel that your store closure program is largely complete? And if you provide a little bit of color specifically on Old Navy I know you've been tweaking the format there and shrinking some of those stores and maybe some the performance there as well.
Ed it's Sabrina.
I'll take that.
We're very much on track with the strategies we've laid out the last couple of years.
So just as a reminder the strategy around Old Navy is to downsize a lot of our stores as we remodel them into the new remodeled format and we're making good progress there.
So 2007 we had 20 million square feet.
We ended this year 2011 with 18.1 million square feet.
We'll be shedding about another 400 000 square feet in '12 so we should end around 17.7.
And that's really on track with what we laid out back in October to get to 17.5 in '13.
With regard to Gap specialty same right on track.
We said we wanted to get to 700 stores by 2013.
We'll be closing about 85 stores in North America specialty in '12 get us down to about 750.
And at the same time important other side of the strategy is to grow the Gap outlets in North America.
So we'll be opening about 20 of those.
So net-net we're right on strategy.
And then we have the international stores coming up and that's why the square footage decline isn't as great.
Your next question is from the line of Jeff Black with Citi Investment Research.
Research Division</strong> A couple of things just a clarification Glenn.
When you say you're -- now is the time to invest in marketing do you think a lack of marketing was in some way a hindrance to last year's comps? Are you saying you think the product is just better and could benefit from better marketing? And the question on sourcing is where are lead times where are you in terms of using your hub strategy a little differently? And are both of these things better set this year so a little tailwind might be turned into a significant tailwind then we get some even lower AUC than you guys are projecting? Jeff on the marketing side it's definitely the latter where the time is that -- we as I tried to say in an earlier answer just because we have maybe one season that sits in a showroom and it's about to be produced again to a store that that would never get us to put marketing behind product.
We've worked very hard as we should have given our performance in 2011.
Worked really hard on the product front in getting clarity in each one of our design teams whether that's addition of talent or was just a better focus and part of that was the GC the Gap Global Creative Center in New York City.
And the confidence has picked up to the point where some marketing I want to make sure I'm clear on this some marketing will go in the Q1.
The investments I'm talking about will have to be one earned and they'll have to be -- they will happen and probably if our business performs at a higher rate through the year.
So it's driven by -- if you're going to be making some changes in product and get it right on to the customer in which we need to attract to our stores we got to go tell that story.
We have a lot of marketing in the business.
I want to make sure I'm clear about that.
So this is a Gap story mostly in domestic mostly in North America.
Old Navy has plenty of marketing.
Their issue in 2011 was it wasn't effective as we said a number of times on these calls maybe being as transparent as we are.
We were not happy with our marketing up until November when the new platform came out.
On the sourcing the team is just being put together now.
We were very pleased with our geographical hub structure up until 2011.
Could have made the change then to a more category structure which is aligning all the way through our business from design to merchandising to production to sourcing by categories.
But given the spike in cotton we decided to not do it at that time because we have enough disruptions going on and enough stress in the business to try to manage our way through that challenge.
We're in the early days Jeff.
Let's see.
This is the month of February.
So the team that's been put in place from a category perspective their first impact in the business will probably be in our holiday buying which we haven't even begun just yet.
So they'll probably have some impact on holiday.
The real benefit to me of the category hub structure it allows us to build much deeper relationships with mills upstream which we do not have today.
That's a missed opportunity in our sourcing.
We do deal with mills.
Nowhere to the degree we will going forward and a category structure gets the category leader relationship with the mills much stronger.
And I think some of that benefit that I hope will be materialized could come in holiday but most of that will be 2013.
And your next question is from the line of John Morris with BMO Capital Markets.
I wanted to ask with respect Glenn to the domestic reinvestment that you're talking about the emphasis on that -- in the 3 areas: marketing; product; and e-commerce.
Will one of those be emphasized more or will it be balanced? And Sabrina on that topic it sounds like a lot of that would be coming from some of the recaptured savings from the lower AUC in the back half.
And would you say that most of that potential differential that delta is going into that domestic reinvestment? I should probably -- I'll try to handle both of those and I'll pass it on to Sabrina for some further comments at the end.
I'd say John it's difficult to be absolute about this because we have flexibility.
Product is the one area we're going to invest in.
Again it's going to be very targeted in key categories that we can dominate in in selective brands.
That's the one with the longest lead time.
So I would say that one as I know today will likely be the most amount of pure dollars will go into that area.
But we also -- we've done some tests ahead of time some categories to make sure we know we can resonate with customers.
It will be noticed and we'll get paid for it.
But we'll be watching it through the year to make sure that those -- that that outcome actually happens.
Marketing would be the next one in line but that has much more flexibility much shorter lead times.
And e-commerce I talked about the new Phoenix distribution center.
We got full op -- open in full operation in the fall of 2011.
There's some mobile investments we're going to make.
There's some investments in people that goes into that business as well and probably the lesser of the money we're spending as we do every year as I said at the beginning we're always -- we're deciding what variable SG&amp;A we want to put in the business to deliver on the strategic plan but also to hit the framework of the economic model the company needs to have.
In terms of what percent were built here's what they'll tell you.
We're at best just finishing our fall buy right now at best.
We haven't even started anything on holiday.
We had choices like we have across all of the cost centers in the business.
One negotiate as hard as we can which is we're going to do regardless and get savings through the assumption of tailwinds in the back half to put all of that money in the bottom line of the business.
But also we had a choice to pack and go.
Where do we believe? We can actually get a win in certain key categories across brands and give our designers and merchandisers a little bit of license to put some more money back into the product.
And just one last point on that.
When you think a product to me it starts with fit which costs no more money.
Just want to have a great fit and consistent fit then it goes to color.
Doesn't cost any more money.
You got to have the right color for the season.
Then it goes to style which could be print and pattern as well.
It doesn't cost any more money then it gets to fabric.
So our designers and merchants know that in order to have excellent consistent great product season in season out you have to deliver on all 4 of those.
All we're trying to highlight today is there are in some areas putting some money back into fabric does make strategic sense to us.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question is from the line of Richard Jaffe with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Glenn just a quick follow up on the sourcing change and then a question for the franchise goals longer term.
First for the sourcing obviously that hub and spoke strategy is an old one and one that's well entrenched within the company.
And the change you suggested this category or more of a I guess vertical-by-product initiative.
It sounds like that's going to be at least a year-long process or multiyear process to get that fully implemented.
Is that correct? Or is it in place today and it's just a question of timing to get the product in stores? What I was saying to Jeff and I'm actually going out to all of our sourcing offices next month and I'll have a much better feeling than Jeff when I go out.
But our teams will be in place and will be actually executing our holiday buy through that category structure we have in place.
My point to Jeff was that the full benefit the full value unlock for the company of going from design all the way through the continuum of our product all the way to sourcing and then our sourcing team working with a better balance of mills and vendors that will probably -- that value unlock will probably take place more in 2013.
But the team executing our product sourcing and negotiations and vendor relations will be on a category basis starting this holiday.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And Glenn will that include 2013 that is to say will that include taking fabric positions or commitments on fabric? We're actually -- we do some fabric platforming today not as much as I think we should.
We have -- there's some work to be done there and the -- not only under Colin's leadership which is a fresh set of buys but 2 senior executives that he's brought in as part of the new team he's put together.
I believe all of them have been having many conversations over the last 3 months with mills with our own in-house teams about the benefit of fabric platforming the long term the cost benefit the speed benefit which is really what I want to get because that's where the gross margin comes if you can get fabric platforming on speed.
In terms of the franchise business we presented it must have been 2 years ago that we planned on having 400 franchise stores by the end of 2013.
We're definitely on track for that.
We feel good about that goal.
Stephen Sunnucks and his international team or Stephen in particular representing international team will be available in October like he is every single year to give an update on everything international.
But I suspect that he will be able to give an update on the number of stores in the franchise business at that time.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And does that include the southern hemisphere? No that's ex-Brazil ex-India.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And any thoughts on that hemisphere or those countries? No.
We've had many trips to Brazil.
We like the Brazilian market.
The capacity there is very difficult capacity in terms of square footage available is difficult in Brazil.
I'm actually going for the sixth time to India this March.
Besides the sourcing team I'm spending time with the Indian team.
So I'll get a sense of that.
Those are 2 markets that of course we will be targeting down the road.
And Steve once again in October could give an update on what our thoughts are on those 2 big markets.
And your next question is from the line of Stacy Pak with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> So Sabrina my question is really for you.
What does the guidance embed in terms of AUC recapture in the second half of '12? I mean I heard what you said about you're not sure exactly what you're going to get but what are you embedding in your guidance? I'm assuming you have some recapture in there.
And if not why not? And should we sort of assume there is? And also what does your guidance embed in terms of share repurchases something similar to Q4 run rate? Is that what's in there? Yes.
So I'll try and be helpful.
Obviously we put out a range Stacy.
So we do lots of scenarios.
And the range that we've guided to is the best reflection of what we believe are the most probable outcomes with the info we have today.
So there are a range of scenarios for both AUC.
And just as a reminder what I said was we are fairly confident we will get costing improvement in the back half.
There still is uncertainty because as we said and Glenn just reminded we just started buying the back half.
And there's lots of decisions not only the variables that are macro factors like cotton and labor and all of that but there's also just our merchants who are making decisions about the mix of the assortment where they'll reinvest.
But all that said we said we're fairly confident that costing will improve in the back half and our range includes scenarios with improvements.
With regard to share repurchase we also have embedded a range of share repurchases.
Now I think it's important that I just underscore again we're trying to signal that we are absolutely committed to cash distributions as we have been for many many years.
Nothing in our principal has changed.
But definitely 2012 will be a more normalized what we consider normalized year share repurchases.
And if you look back over the last whatever 6 7 years we sort of averaged $1 billion $1.3 billion per year.
And the timing obviously matters about the share repurchases and how accretive they are as they're back half-weighted front half-weighted et cetera.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And just as follow-up Sabrina on the AUC is part of what you've been talking about in terms of investing in the product upgrading the fabric is that taking away some of the AUC benefit that you would otherwise see? Well obviously reinvesting means you would get less than doing exact like-for-like AUC definitely.
Now what will also be important to manage during the year is we would like to see getting paid for those investments.
And that's why we're taking our time in making them very carefully and in areas that we really believe are really important to the brand.
So once again suiting is something Banana Republic stands for and that's an area we'd look at.
Similarly denim that's an area we stand for at Gap and that's an area we'd look at.
And your final question is from the line of Paul Lejuez with Nomura Securities.
Research Division</strong> Just to talk to that last question.
As AUC comes down how are you thinking about the AUR side of the equation and how does that differ by brand? And then just second can you comment on how much credit helped you this year and if you expect that to be a tailwind or headwind in F'12? Yes I'll do that second question first Paul and then I think Glenn might chime in on the first one.
With regard to the credit card I think you guys know we've had a private label credit card for about 15 years so a really really long time.
And then we've had a co-branded credit card we added about 5 years ago and nothing's really changed with regard to how we report that.
We've never given specific numbers but we do embed in our 10-Qs some qualitative flavor that is helpful to our expense management.
We did get a nice increase in 2011 and we wouldn't expect that same kind of increase in '11 in '12.
And the reason is '11 seems to be a really unique year with balances of our customers sort of growing.
I guess that's maybe a sign that people are getting more confident as the economy improves and stabilizes but the loss rates have stayed pretty low.
I think that's fairly unique circumstances.
So we're not counting on the same level of growth in the program in '12 as we got in '11.
And the relationship between AUC and AUR as we've been speaking for a number of years on the call we've worked hard to disaggregate those inside the business as much as possible because they really are independent decisions.
They come together to formulate a gross margin rate to the senior merchant but they should be independent decisions AUC AIR based on competition and what you want to do by categories.
And the AUC piece is just making sure that our sourcing and production teams can get us the best cost and leverage the size of the company.
I will say Paul that in 2011 given this unique year particularly in the back half as we spoke about these significant increases in our cost of goods our teams were much more aware of AUC.
Those who had to price AIR those that who had to make AUR decisions were much more aware of it.
Coming in 2012 there's 2 components that are changing based on my opening comments.
One from an assortment perspective at Old Navy in particular we felt that we got a little bit off on the spreading of our price points under a good better best strategy.
Got a little too far up in the best category and that's going to be managed back to a better balance inside good better best.
So that's one change that is certainly happening.
And then our value businesses our outlet business and in Old Navy because of the significant increases that really impacted them in 2011 in the back half.
There's a few areas we crossed thresholds with customers and those adjustments are going to have to be made.
And we're going to go back to how we operate the business in 2010 which is really making sure that merchants are 100% focused on the value proposition in the business and then the production team getting the best cost possible but not having the relationship be so directly affected one to the other as we did in the back half of '11 given the huge increases.
Research Division</strong> Glenn what do you think that your competitors are going to do in terms of when they get the AUC benefit? Do you think most will reinvest in the product and the fabric as you might be doing in some cases? We heard from another retailer today a big one that seemed to indicate that they'd accept a slightly lower merchandise margin and really go for share.
What do you think about the landscape and how everyone treats the AUC benefit? Well it's way too early to know and I think everybody is going to be doing different things.
I'm sure there's people out there who felt that maybe they crossed some thresholds and they're going to have to make some adjustments.
We watch our competitors very closely.
There's going to be people who may felt during the significant pressure in the back half of '11 maybe took too much out of their product and ours is less about going back to where it was.
We try to hold our product as best as we could.
Ours is just strategically trying to put in the key categories.
There's going to be a group like that.
I'll remind everybody this is category that's had very little inflation for the better part of 20 years.
That's the first time we've seen some inflation.
And the market leaders on price will be dictating a lot of this and the people who control the floor will be sending signals through everybody whether they believe the price levels and whatever inflation was allowed to come through in 2011 should sustain itself in 2012.
I think time will tell.
And Ms.
O'Connell your final question is from the line of Ike Boruchow with JPMorgan.
Just a quick question I'm calling in for Brian.
I know it's been harped on but the SG&amp;A Sabrina I mean you guys have done such a phenomenal job the last 5 years.
I don't think you've grown expenses more than 0.5% so I don't know if you can help us with the expenses and a little more color break out advertising versus other investments.
Is it back half-weighted front half-weighted? Just any other color would be helpful.
It's something we haven't seen from you guys in a long time.
Well I mean I don't think that it's an enormous piece of our story going forward.
So I want to make sure we're taking that into perspective.
I think because of our history you can count on us to continue to manage that very responsibly.
We just also wanted to be transparent to your very point of after 5 years of really really good management of expenses even as we were making really big investments internationally we just want to put some investments in our domestic business as well and that's likely going to have us deleveraged.
So once again the way that will shape up as Glenn said our philosophy together is that we need to earn the spend.
So we need to continue to see momentum.
We need to feel confident we're going to get the return and so the shape of it will take form over the course of the year but we do want to signal that it'll likely deleverage and we'll continue to manage responsibly.
I'd like to thank everyone for joining the call today.
As a reminder our earnings press release which is available on gapinc.com contains the full recap of our Q4 and full year results as well as the forward-looking guidance that was included in Sabrina's remarks.
And as always the Investor Relations team will be available after the call for further questions.
Thank you.
And this does conclude today's conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
My name is Ashley and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Gap Inc.
First Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to introduce your host Katrina O'Connell Vice President of Investor Relations.
Good afternoon everyone.
Welcome to Gap Inc.'s First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
For those of you participating in the webcast please turn to Slides 2 and 3.
I'd like to remind you that the information made available on this webcast and conference call contains forward-looking statements.
For information on factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements as well as reconciliations of measures we're required to reconcile to GAAP financial measures please refer to today's press release as well as our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and our most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q all of which are available on gapinc.com.
These forward-looking statements are based on information as of May 17 2012 and we assume no obligation to publicly update or revise our forward-looking statements.
Joining us on the call today are Chairman and CEO Glenn Murphy; and Executive Vice President and CFO Sabrina Simmons.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Glenn.
Thank you Katrina.
Before I hand it over to Sabrina to take you through the highlights from the first quarter I've got some general comments about Q1.
First off as I said in the release we were pleased with our performance in the first quarter.
I think domestically in particular if you look at our comp performance in each one of our large brands Old Navy Gap and Banana Republic we were pleased with that performance and our product teams really stepped up in the first quarter.
We've been pretty consistent since our call in February saying that last fall we sat down as a business and took some corrective measures in product and that some of the areas we're making investments in which I will touch on at the end of these comments.
I think color was a trend that everybody took advantage.
I think our team did a very good job with that.
Then generally our product teams really stepped up nicely in this first quarter.
We also had some great feedback from our customers on our collaboration with Diane von Furstenberg a Gap brand doing DVF for Kids traffic driver great execution in the stores and marketing and I think that was very good for Gap brand.
And for Banana Republic to tie itself in a partnership with Mad Men one of the top properties definitely here in the United States was very good for their business.
Again a lot of customer increased great sell-through in the product and amazing feedback.
And lastly our online business continued to be very strong.
Coming off of a 20% increase in 2011 our online business delivered an 18% increase in the first quarter and we're making a lot of smart investments in mobile technology online media and a whole bunch of different areas because that's part of our business that we're known for.
We have in my opinion a competitive advantage and we continue to invest to make sure that we're actually out there gaining market share on the online business.
Let me switch gears and talk about our growth initiatives and their performance.
I'll just highlight a few of them in the first quarter.
Our franchise business added 3 new markets in the first quarter.
And more importantly they added 22 stores that was really strong performance by that team.
Our China business added 7 new stores and a New Market in Wuhan and the China business is on track to doing the 30 stores we committed to get done in 2012 and good performance coming off of that team.
I happen to be in Japan 4 weeks ago.
And saw the store coming together for Old Navy in a market just outside of Tokyo.
A beautiful store great premarketing good brand awareness for Old Navy good initial feedback from customers.
So we're very much looking forward to that opening which will be later this quarter.
And Athleta is clearly on track to add 25 stores.
We like the performance of the stores in 2011.
We're seeing so far in 2012.
A new marketing platform I talked about in the February conference call.
So that's coming together nicely and we're looking forward to reporting on even more progress when it comes to real estate strategy for Athleta.
We talked on the February call about investments.
I just thought Id  spend a minute on that 2 areas in particular investments in our product and investments in marketing.
On the product front our creative advisors are working very well with the design teams at Gap brand with the Tracy Gardner and Old Navy with Jill Stanton.
Now their work in working alongside of the design teams in each one of those brands won't be seen until holiday but very good feedback on the contribution they're making so far.
Now more importantly in the first quarter there were some key categories that we already put some investment into for our customers to notice and for us to get a much higher sell-through inside of our stores.
So just a couple of examples.
Old Navy completely redesigned their whole T-shirt business and that launched in the first quarter and it was quite a contributor to Old Navy's performance in Q1.
And Gap brand put money into their bottoms business and their performance on colored bottoms and colored denim.
That was also a big contributor to their performance in the first quarter.
So as I mentioned before we're looking at key categories where we can have a competitive point of differentiation.
We will make targeted investments in order to drive our business.
Now the marketing front we did come into the new year with -- for the most part 5 new creative platforms.
Now Old Navy's was tweaked from November of 2011.
But for the most part 5 new creative platforms.
The Gap platform which I assume everybody has seen it was a global campaign of Be Bright.
And that campaign very well-received from customers.
Good execution in the windows in-store digital execution strong.
I felt very good about what the team did and the reaction we got from customers and then the overall performance of the business.
And I really thought the Banana Republic did a very nice job in the first quarter on their marketing platform which is focused on new work.
That's just perfect for that brand and I thought the mediums they used to express that creativity mostly on direct mail really came across strongly and got great feedback from their customers.
Last month we announced the hiring of Stefan Larsson from H&amp;M to become the new Global Brand President for Old Navy.
Now Stefan won't be joining us until the month of October but everybody here is very excited about what he's going to bring to the business.
He's had this phenomenal experience in product in real estate in sourcing and inventory management but most importantly he's a very global executive.
Old Navy's #1 priority is to continue this kind of performance in its domestic business.
But with the opening of the store in Japan and future openings in 2013 Stefan's experience globally will be very helpful to where Old Navy is at this point of their revolution.
So in closing it's nice to get off to a good start doing $0.47 in EPS.
I mean nice comp performance in the first quarter 6% total growth.
All the numbers that you see in the press release we feel good about that.
But as we've said many times we have lots of work to do inside the business.
While it's nice to celebrate this small win in the first quarter it's a long year.
We have lots of initiatives in place.
We need to execute them.
But we're committed to making that happen.
So with all that said let me pass on to Sabrina who will take you through the financial highlights for the first quarter.
Sabrina? Thank you Glenn.
Good afternoon everyone.
We're pleased with our first quarter performance as it represents meaningful progress against our 2012 priorities including improving sales reinvesting in our business and growing earnings per share.
Here are some highlights for the quarter.
Net sales were up 6%.
Comparable sales were up 4% and all North American divisions posted positive comps for the quarter.
Despite increased average unit costs gross margins were only down 20 basis points.
And finally our earnings per share grew 18%.
Please turn to Slide 4 for our earnings recap.
In the first quarter operating income was up $9 million or 2%.
Net earnings were flat at $233 million and earnings per share were $0.47 up from $0.40 last year.
This includes about $0.01 of benefit related to favorable reassessment of tax positions in the quarter.
Turning to Slide 5 sales performance.
First quarter total sales was $3.5 billion up 6% with comp sales up 4%.
Our new stores and franchise business both contributed to our spread of 2 points.
Total sales and comps by division are listed in our press release.
Turning to Slide 6 gross profits.
Gross profit dollars grew by 5% to $1.4 billion.
First quarter gross margin was down 20 basis points to 39.4%.
While average unit retail continued to be up over last year.
Our merchandise margins were down 150 basis points driven by higher average unit costs.
Rent and occupancy leveraged 130 basis points.
As a reminder the amount of leverage in any given quarter is dependent on a number of factors.
Some examples include the timing of store openings and closures landlord settlements and rent escalation base.
Therefore although we remain confident that we will leverage rent and occupancy on a positive comp we would caution against extrapolating this magnitude of leverage.
Turning to inventory on Slide 7.
As mentioned in our April sales press release inventory per store in terms of dollars was down 7% on last year's up 10%.
Please turn to Slide 8 for operating expenses.
We noted on last quarter's call that we plan to invest more in our domestic businesses in 2012 and highlighted that it's unlikely we will leverage operating expenses.
In line with that framework first quarter total operating expenses were $980 million up $62 million from the prior year due primarily to investments in marketing and store payroll.
As a percent of sales total expenses deleveraged by 20 basis points.
Marketing expenses grew $20 million to $139 million driven by increases in CRM and Gap brand marketing.
Please turn to Slide 9 for capital expenditures and store counts.
First quarter capital expenditures were $148 million.
With regard to company-operated stores we closed 10 stores on a net basis and ended the quarter with 3 026 stores.
Net square footage was down 2% compared to Q1 2011.
Store count and square footage by division are listed in our press release.
Regarding cash and share counts on Slide 10.
For the quarter free cash flow was an inflow of $216 million compared with an inflow of $104 million last year.
We ended the first quarter with about $2 billion in cash and short-term investment.
On our Q4 earnings call we announced a new $1 billion share repurchase authorization and guided that our level of share repurchase in 2012 would be less than 2011.
Consistent with that statement our Q1 share repurchases were minimal and we ended the quarter with 491 million shares outstanding.
And now I'd like to discuss our outlook for the rest of the year.
Please turn to Slide 11.
We're certainly pleased with our progress as reflected in our Q1 performance.
That said there are several factors to consider regarding our full year outlook.
First as I just noted share repurchases were minimal during the quarter and therefore our weighted average share count was impacted not only for the first quarter but likely for the full year.
Second external factors including weather were very favorable in the first quarter.
And finally we believe it's important to remain measured in our outlook given that our biggest selling seasons are still ahead of us.
Taking these important factors into account we are raising our estimate for full year earnings per share which includes the 53rd week to $1.78 to $1.83.
As a reminder our framework for the year while unchanged from Q4 includes the following: it's our objective to continue to drive modest top line growth with the stabilization of our base business and a continuation of our global growth initiatives.
At the same time we plan to deliver healthy merchandise margin through better product acceptance inventory discipline and improved average unit cost.
While we're confident that our average unit cost on like-for-like product will improve in the second half of 2012 as we noted on our last earnings call this benefit will be partially offset by select reinvestments into product quality as well as changes in the mix of our product assortments.
With regard to occupancy costs we continue to expect leverage on positive comps.
But as I just mentioned we would caution against extrapolating the magnitude of leverage in the first quarter.
Moving on to operating expenses.
We expect to continue to prudently invest more in our domestic businesses and our growth initiative.
Therefore we do not expect operating expense to leverage for the full year.
In addition to continued International growth areas of investment this year include global IT e-commerce store payroll and marketing.
Specifically we expect the increase in marketing in the second quarter to be at least as large as it was in the first quarter.
With regard to inventory at the end of Q2 inventory dollars per store are expected to be relatively flat to last year.
Regarding share repurchases.
Our philosophy regarding the distribution of excess cash to shareholders has not changed.
However as a reminder our approach to share repurchases is highly opportunistic.
Given that we repurchased over 200 million shares in 2010 and 2011 at an average price of $19.60 we are comfortable with the slower pace of repurchase in 2012.
The following full year guidance metrics remain substantially unchanged.
Operating margin about 10%.
Net square footage down by about 1%.
Company-operated stores about 130 openings and about 115 closures both of which are net of repositions.
Capital expenditures about $600 million.
Depreciation and amortization about $475 million.
Effective tax rate about 39.5%.
In closing we're pleased with about how we executed against our strategies in Q1 and are focused on delivering on our goals for the remainder of the year.
Thank you.
Now I'll turn it back over to Katrina.
Thank you Sabrina.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
Now we'll open up the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Kimberly Greenberger with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Glenn and Sabrina I wanted to just ask about the outlook here for the rest of the year.
We saw just an incredibly good first quarter.
It sounds like there's a little more caution as you look out to the second third fourth quarter of the year.
Is this just trying to maintain expectations as -- and let the results kind of speak for themselves? Or are there some benefits perhaps in the first quarter that you're worried won't repeat in the rest of the year? We're just trying to square the great performance we saw so far this year with what seems to be a more conservative outlook for the rest of the year.
Yes great question Kimberly.
So I guess I'm going to start by saying we actually feel really confident internally about the progress we're making.
So I think that's the important headline.
That said we are only finishing here the first quarter and entering the second.
So as I said in my remarks we have 3 big important quarters ahead of us.
So we really want to just remain measured in our outlook.
In addition to that I'm just going to do 3 quick reminders on themes that we outlined since the Q4 earnings call that are still true which is -- although we feel good about our average unit costing in the back half we are reinvesting some of that into quality and assortment mix decisions that obviously we feel good about.
But its the AUR piece that will need to play out as the year goes on.
Second reminder is that if our momentum continues as we had in the first quarter we definitely plan on continuing investments in these areas like store payroll store-related expense and marketing.
So that's something we'd like to do after 4 years of really really tight expense discipline.
And then finally and this is a really important point as I said we are committed to distributing excess cash.
But we've always been very opportunistic about our program.
And so I think it's going to be really important to take into account the fact that the share repurchases in the first quarter were minimal and that is going to really impact sort of how everyone models out their weighted average shares.
Obviously the more back half weighted share repurchase becomes the less impact it's going to have on the share count for the year.
Your next question comes from Adrienne Tennant with Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Glenn or Sabrina can you talk about your average unit cost trajectory? You probably have thought well through third quarter and into holiday.
We know that the fall was up 20%.
So can you give us any color as to do you get half of that back? Do you reinvest half? Any sort of color there would be very helpful.
And then kind of on the same path really the same question is inventory unit plans.
Yes.
So I'll start that Adrienne.
And last year just to be clear not fall wasn't up 20% we said our entire back half was up about 20%.
And that included holiday which was actually the peak costing was in holiday last year.
So that just a -- a nuance that I just wanted to make sure we're grounded on.
With regards to this year you're right.
We're not done with the second half.
We're not done with holiday yet.
But we feel good about our costing.
I'm not going to quantify numbers this year it was highly unusual for us to ever do that.
Last year we did that because the escalation was so unprecedented and meaningful to our P&amp;L.
And so we're not going to get into precise numbers.
But again we do feel good about that which is why we said we feel confident about healthier margins this year.
But we will be reinvesting some of that in important key categories.
We're not at reinvesting everywhere.
It's going to be in categories that are important assets to the brand like suiting at Banana Republic denim at Gap brand et cetera.
And then there's important mix shift.
So a good example of that would be investing in more Gap fit the athletic pants putting it in more stores.
And that's a higher AUC than things like panties that it might be replacing.
So those are examples directionally of where we're headed.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
Just directionally units would they be up? Oh thanks.
And then on units as the pressure on AUC eases it will depend on divisions but I'm going to use the Old Navy as an example since they had the steepest escalation last year.
We pulled back the most units out of Old Navy and that's a value business.
So of course we'd like to get to a more normalized level of kind of units per store  there.
We're going to watch our total inventory dollars but as AUC comes down we would like to add more units there yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So up year-on-year.
Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of John Morris with BMO Capital Markets.
Inventory Sabrina if you could talk a little bit about kind of where that came in.
It looks like maybe it was a little bit below where you were.
You're chasing -- how do you feel about it what are your thoughts on a go-forward basis? And then I think may be for Glenn talking a little bit about the product both at Gap domestic and also at Old Navy.
At Gap domestic we're hearing a lot of good things about the bottoms business.
Can you talk to us a little bit about the tops what you're seeing there at Gap domestic and in Old Navy a little bit about where that strength is coming from in terms of the product.
So I'll start quickly on inventory.
Just color -- the context is we were up 10% last year so down 7% this year.
So overall on the 2-year basis we feel like that's a good place.
As we enter Q2 -- we had a nice Q1.
If we had to call out any one division I'd say maybe we're a little bit lean in Old Navy but we have healthy receipts coming in.
We feel good about inventory overall and we guided to flat dollars per store at the end of the quarter.
And John on the product without getting into too much detail what I would say about Gap it's multifaceted that we continue to be very pleased with our Kids and Baby business and the -- some of the investments that Sabrina was talking about earlier on product that can be definitely seen as you get into spring summer and beyond in our Baby business which is clearly a competitive advantage and an asset for the company.
So I'd say that business continues to be strong.
It's being reference to the body business led by the new GapBodyFit business.
That was strong in the quarter.
So but -- bottoms was likely very easy for people to start asking that question.
It was our whole campaign in spring under the Be Bright platform was about bottoms whether it was woven bottoms and twill or whether it was the denim which we did in March.
That was a good business for everybody at Gap and at Old Navy as well.
So I'd say Gap was fairly nicely spread across all of their different businesses.
It wasn't strictly a 5 comp on the quarter led by colored bottoms in women's.
That business did well for us as I'm sure did well for a lot of other retailers but it was really spread nicely across the business which is encouraging because you don't want to have a one-dimensional driven comp.
At Old Navy today I talked earlier at my opening comments about the relaunch of their T program there was a nice marketing campaign tied into that.
That business was very strong.
Relaunched great color selection the way only Old Navy can.
So it's a -- it was a brand-new T program bought very well marketed very well and that again wasn't a one-dimensional but I referenced it only because that's really at the heart of what Old Navy does well.
To be quite honest with you I wish Old Navy would have had a little bit more inventory in colored bottoms.
I'm sure we're not the only retailer to make that comment.
Somebody was asking Sabrina earlier about chasing about inventory I think it was you actually John.
So the notion from our end was that there was once spot that as you could redo it -- But Old Navy is such a big business.
It doesn't take a lot because we're not dealing in tens of thousands of units.
We're dealing with Old Navy.
When Old Navy starts to do well you're talking about hundreds of thousands of units.
So the team did the best they could and its not like we disappointed customers broadly in the spring.
But if there was one category that they would like to have gotten a mulligan on it probably would have been on colored bottoms.
So but now -- if you'd go on in our store now there's definitely color on a number of categories for Old Navy.
So I would say that their assortment mix change which is something I talked about in the February call was a contributor.
The Ts helpful.
They did well on color but they were probably the one brand that wished -- because it was tough to predict they could have some more inventory in that key category.
Your next question comes from the line of Evren Kopelman with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I had a question on the marketing expense for the Gap brand.
It might be impossible to really figure this out but how much of the improvement at that brand do you attribute to the marketing versus maybe the product improvement? I didn't know if you had certain ways to measure the return on investment in marketing.
We've had so many people figuring that out.
We've got a department of very smart people who can figure these kinds of investments.
So I'm not really at liberty in fairness to sort of say well this was driven by the product this was driven by the marketing.
What I can tell you is when we had the call in February and said look we're going to put some more money in marketing.
We're going to be thoughtful we've mentioned also that we're -- we had the flexibility to ship up or down on marketing.
Its one of those investments that you can make and read your business and if you see that it's actually driving in this case here one of the #1 metrics have increase in -- marketing would be traffic.
And the second biggest metric as far as I'm concerned is increasing your sell-through with the right price.
And so I felt good about the marketing at Gap about our new team in New York working with our new agency and the execution of the stores was really well done.
We're now in our summer program which is the evolution of the platform of Be Bright and now you have meet your own T program which is instead of bottoms we're talking about T-shirts at Gap.
So we can quantify we can quantify the mediums we can quantify markets we can quantify the actual impact on creative.
All that has been done and it's helping  inform better decisions in summer fall and holiday.
Our next question comes from the line of Janet Kloppenburg with JJK Research.
Sabrina I think I'm a little confused about something.
I think you said that we shouldn't count on the leverage of rent and occupancy going forward.
And I'm just wondering if comps continue to be positive shouldn't we -- is there any obstacle to getting leverage on rent and occupancy and if you get some AUC contribution couldn't we expect more leverage on the same level of comps? Yes I'm glad I have the ability to clarify that Janet.
No.
But what I said was we remain very confident actually that we will leverage rent and occupancy on a positive comp.
I just said in the first quarter I cautioned against extrapolating that level of 130 basis points on a forward comp because there's a lot of moving parts that can make quarter by quarter a little bit lumpy.
But we feel confident about leveraging on a positive comp.
You mean there's factors involved in rent and occupancy or there are other factors including markdown levels et cetera? No.
I was just referring inside of rent and occupancy.
And it's -- if you go back to my remarks I mentioned items like timing of store openings and closures.
We have quite a ramp up plan going for example with our Athleta stores here domestically with our China stores.
So the timing of that can make it bumpy quarter-to-quarter.
And in addition there's other stuff like landlord settlement there's the timing of amendments and escalations.
But overall confident that we will leverage rent and occupancy on a positive comp.
Okay.
And Glenn I was wondering in the fourth quarter call you pretty much led us to believe that you felt confident in Gap and Banana Republic in the spring season.
But perhaps that Old Navy would come along later that it's turn was not ready yet that you didn't see it coming.
But they actually had a very good first quarter.
So I'm wondering if you're feeling more confident there or if we should look to Gap and Old Navy to drive the business for the next couple of quarters.
No problem.
What I was attempting to communicate back in February was that Old Navy still had what I was referring to quite often on the call corrective measures to make.
And not that by any stretch of the imagination was Gap and Banana Republic done with their commitment to the corporation of continuous improvement week over week month over month quarter-over-quarter.
But from my lens they were a little further ahead and there was some assortment changes.
And I think I spoke to assortment mix that had to change and some pricing competitiveness that had to get a little sharper at Old Navy coming off of as we referenced earlier through cost increases a very challenging fourth quarter for them.
So yes you're right.
I'm not saying I was presently surprised.
But if I would have handicapped it back in February having seen all the products seen all the marketing knowing the teams while I was -- obviously we're all pleased with the overall 4 -comp and the 5 at Gap 5 at Banana Republic and the 4 at Old Navy.
Sitting here 3 months ago would have been easier for me to think that yes they were better prepared Banana Republic and Gap for the first quarter.
And Old Navy could still have a good quarter.
But they probably have to work a little harder.
So hats off to Nancy and Tom for -- while still making the changes that I would say Janet now are almost done.
We're in the month of May.
I think I committed on the call by the end of May the majority of their changes would be in place.
So hats off to them to be able to still do a 4 comp and contribute to the overall profitability and performance of the company in the first quarter.
Okay.
So you -- and the pricing architecture there is it now where it needs to be? Yes.
There might be Janet a little few more tweaks coming in.
I would say from my perspective after the new flow comes in in May which is just before the Memorial Day weekend that all the work we did last September and October will then be reflected in assortment and our value proposition.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Randy Konik with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess Glenn when -- in terms of Tracy's influence on the business in the back half what do you think we should be looking for there? And on the sustainability of improvement in Old Navy do you think that that happens once all those changes done are in May? No problem.
The first thing I would say it's always worth repeating that all of our businesses from the design perspective are led by teams.
Michael Ingram Jones is our leader of design at Old Navy but he has a very great team that works with him.
Simon Kneen is our head of design at Banana Republic has a very good team.
Tracy is not our head of design by any stretch of the imagination but she has this new role called creative advisor.
So she's working with a team lead by Pam Wallack in New York.
And I would say Tracy as I mentioned in my opening comments her and Jill have both have a very nice impact on the design teams and are contributing at a very high level.
Her impact based on her contribution and the advice she is providing as creative advisor will be felt over the holiday season and Gap brand is one we'll get to see how her working in conjunction with this very qualified design team in New York will bring the Gap product for holiday around the globe.
So that's my view and the same would apply to Jill.
Because Jill once you start a little bit later than Tracy Old Navy is pipeline is shorter so Jill will have the same contribution -- working really with Michael Ingram Jones who will own all our product as he has in the last 4 years providing whatever great advice she can to Michael and his team to actually really prove our assortment to even a higher level for holiday.
So that's on the Tracy front.
In terms of Old Navy what I would just say to Janet was definitely May on the month that we're in right now and near the end of May I'd say we made assortment probably missed the last reporting week but the assortment that delivers into May which really we call the June product will be when the final changes and tweaks from a value proposition for making sure that the right balance exists inside of Old Navy between good better and best which we admitted about 6 months ago might have gone a little bit off in the fall and holiday.
Those will all be in place and now it just comes down to them working within that framework and designing amazing product merchandising marketing and the store teams to make sure that Old Navy's triangulation even though it's more than 3 of fun fashion family and value shows up really strongly from June on.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Lejuez with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Just wondering if you're seeing a lift in Old Navy stores the chair a center or nearby J.C.
Penney store.
And second just wondering if you could talk a little bit about sales productivity and four-wall profitability of Athleta.
Paul we're not really tracking it directly.
Look when somebody in a quarter only leaks out 20-plus percent of sales in a business that's sizable I would say that I can't think of anybody in the value business that gets some benefit from it.
But we're not Old Navy's not by any stretch of the imagination J.C.
Penney's #1 competitor.
I'm sure there's other brands you can think of the more likely when they reported their first quarter.
If they had comps it might have been above their run rate comp maybe they got more benefit.
But there's nothing we can really look at Old Navy and see it but I'm sure anybody in the value business got some benefit from that.
And that team there I'm not speaking for them but they're going through a lot of unique work to change their business model.
So this is just one of those quarters that happens and nobody here is sitting back and thinking it's sustainable in terms of the amount of business they're releasing.
I'm sure that they were doing all the work they can to make sure it's not.
So that's my view of when it comes to J.C.
Penney.
Now with Athleta the four-wall businesses -- we're actually really pleased.
You know us we would not have gone forward a number of months ago and said we had a target and try to open 25 new stores in 2012.
It could be indication that we have in the stores coming weren't very favorable.
The thing about that business that -- if you're in any other business inside of our building that you got to be envious about would be is productivity per foot is very impressive and they do very well and that's a big driver of that is because of their product and their marketing is their cross-sells [ph] are very impressive.
And they do a very good job of that as a business.
And I look at it and go well we brought some value and advantages to this team this company and brand that we brought into the fold a couple of years ago.
At the same time they're bringing a lot of lessons to us here at Gap Inc.
And so we've been very pleased with the people at Athleta and Scott Key's leadership and the business model they've created online catalog and in stores.
It's a very nice business.
Research Division</strong> Any quantification at all on that Glenn? No not really.
Your next question comes from the line of Lorraine Hutchinson with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Sabrina just moving back to the SG&amp;A there's been so many years where that has been such a controlled line item.
And just curious if you start to see sales stabilize and continue to trend positively are we in for a few years of an investment cycle in either your stores or your home office? Yes I think it would be premature to get too far ahead of ourselves Lorraine.
But certainly this year we would like to make those investments that we've been pointing to since last quarter's call focused mostly on the domestic business.
Because again I'll point to the fact that we're pleased that since 2008 -- between 2008 and 2011 that total expense base remained relatively flat while we were making some significant investments internationally or I should say globally.
So our global online launch our launch in China our launch in Italy.
And so we were very disciplined about trade-outs as we made that to keep that line tight.
And we felt fine about that.
I think this year given that we're actually seeing product assortment improvements that we've been looking for in our North America businesses we want to support and propel those with investments in the business that we think have a high likelihood of a nice return for our shareholders.
So that's clearly our position this year.
How long that might last? But it's certainly our position this year.
And again we'll watch the pacing and momentum because we definitely are always balancing driving value to our shareholders and we'll be responsible about the magnitude of those investments depending on that top line.
And your next question comes from the line of Jeff Klinefelter with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Glenn I just wanted to ask a little bit about the International business in light of the focus on those markets right now kind of what your expectations are in your core markets your core International directly operated markets.
And then specifically since you have mentioned Old Navy in Tokyo opening a store with plans for more you've had a Gap business there for years and just -- some brands have had issues in that market.
Just wondering kind of how you're approaching the Old Navy rollout differences between that and the U.S.
pricing marketing positioning et cetera.
Okay.
Jeff well look.
They had a 13% sales increase as far as I know in the quarter.
And so we feel good about that that's because what we try to do and I think we've been thoughtful about it and explained if it's not on these phone calls it's certainly at conferences that we attend that we like the way we've actually mixed the business internationally.
But it's a combination of our corporate-owned business our very strong and exciting franchise business that grew at 30% in the first quarter and now with global online and global outlet.
So we're looking at it this way we're saying look we take the mix but we also look at every country.
It's such a broad statement as you can appreciate it calling it International business - we have a European business and we're watching very carefully.
Our team there in Europe knows that.
They're making all the right decisions whether it's hunkering down when they have to hunker down making sure the stores that are strong for us especially in big centers like London and Paris and Milan and Rome that those stores are strong and out there winning there's -- they're in difficult conditions in Europe.
Now we go sort of around the world and look at our business in Japan which in the quarter we had to live with the -- about 6 weeks of the anniversary of the tragedy of 3/11 and then 6 weeks of some recovery.
And we do feel really good in Japan otherwise about our business in general but our team there and about the prospects to putting online more outlet stores and introduce Old Navy.
China we've committed ourselves to 30 stores this year.
We're on track.
We did 7 stores in the quarter which was a nice number for us.
That's good.
Usually you don't see front-end loaded real estate as I mentioned in my opening comments and our franchise business of 30% comp was -- sorry 30% total sales was very strong.
So was our -- we don't release this  numbers but our global online business was also very powerful in the first quarter.
We really like what we saw in our International markets and in China that's why we're looking forward to Japan.
Now when it comes to Old Navy Japan not to get into too many details but I think one thing I would like people to appreciate is because it's a value business similar to our outlet business really what you're looking at here is a push model.
So we're -- the Old Navy team in Mission Bay yes there's a nice collaboration with a very very small focus team in Japan who's going to do the execution.
But really we're pushing out the product the marketing the store design the standards the operating model.
It's all based on how Old Navy operates here today.
That's been pushed out into the Japanese team and there's a great team there that are going to help execute it working in conjunction with the team here in North America.
But a different completely different model than Gap which we've been working since I've been here to sort of undo a little bit and get to more consistency and continuity around the world which a big part of that was opening the global center in New York was to get to that.
Old Navy started from day 1 we're going to model it more off our very successful global outlet business and have a team here in San Francisco be pushing out and let the Japan team execute it with very little -- I want to be clear on this very little localization.
There'll be some and we did all our research here.
We've talked to so many of our customers and so much research like we did in China that Old Navy the way it's positioned here in North America will work very well in Japan.
That's why there's very little localization.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Tunick with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I guess one for Glenn first -- just sort of maybe at the Gap division we know it's early but is there any evidence of regaining lost customers here early in the year or are you really seeing your existing customer buying more? And you have the DVF Kids and the thread lists Halo playing out.
So just curious what you think about regaining lost customers.
And then for Sabrina maybe any comments on why you've been so cautious on the share repurchase program.
It looked like Q4 was pretty slow and here as well in Q1.
So just...
Brian on the customers at Gap definitely part of the reason to step up some marketing and do the work we did almost over a year ago now bringing a head new Chief Marketing Officer for the globe in Seth Farbman and go to a new agency relationship with Ogilvy -- was to not only get new customers into the stores globally which is really one of the top priorities for Stephen Sunnucks and for Art Peck.
But also I would say that we want to make sure that we also shift the mix of our customers.
And as we look at our range of sort of age demographic business these days is so much more about just age demographic but to be only on that measurement we do believe there's an opportunity for more customers in the mid late 20s early 30s to be experiencing the brand checking it out.
People who may be we've not been as relevant and appealing to in the last number of years to get them to come in to see Gap.
Now fortunately for us a nice trend came by in the early part of this year which really could appeal to a very democratic group of customers but maybe especially was appealing to people in the age group I just mentioned.
So the marketing as you saw was attempted not only in the marketing and the creative that was done from Seth's team and the agency but also in the medium I would say that the local marketing teams and the global team are choosing to speak to our customers.
So I'm actually quite pleased with a little bit of research I've seen.
It is early days that were there's some new customers in the quarter? Absolutely.
But I'm really -- what I'm digging deep into -- since I know Art in North America in particular is digging deep into is what kind of mix of customers is he getting? And that is one of the goals of the incremental marketing.
And with regard to share repurchase Brian I wouldn't read too much into the first quarter at all.
I mean we've had years where our pattern is very lumpy and we've had years where we haven't bought in the first quarter and it's been back half weighted.
I think what was unusual about the first quarter was that -- for our stock to go from under 19 when we entered the quarter all the way above 29 that's just an unusual movement in the stock very quickly.
And so our programs just sort of didn't catch up with that level of movement let's say.
But we're obviously long-term believers in our stock and nothing's changed with regard to our philosophy of distributing that excess cash.
So share repurchase is embedded in our overall spectrum of scenarios and our guidance.
I think it's just important once again to factor in that it -- the timing matters.
So the more back half weighted you get it actually can have a meaningful difference in that weighted average share count.
Your next question comes from the line of Betty Chen with Wedbush.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering Glenn if you can speak to Piperlime with the anticipated opening in New York.
How is the team thinking about replicating that online experience inside the store or presenting the collection in person? And then I also had a separate question just regarding the competitive landscape.
It seems like we came from a Q4 timeframe when there was a lot of excess inventory in the marketplace and perhaps a lack of fashion trends to excite consumers to now a complete reversal in Q1.
How do you view the competitive environment as we go into Q2 and how is the team kind of executing against that going to the second half as well? No problem.
On Piperlime look I'd say in some ways we're taking a little bit of the blueprint from Athleta.
Now they're different businesses for sure.
In the Athleta purpose for doing stores was so -- such a strong call from our customers who bought on catalog and online but the nature of that product they really wanted the opportunity to physically experience the brand and try that product on because it's so technical.
And the customers they are going after well they really love the online experience and were inspired from the catalog they really wanted a physical manifestation of the brand.
Well we've taken that blueprint for Piperlime and so it's tough.
If we were steady right now in September in SoHo I could articulate to you how that 4 500 square foot store is going to come across.
But I actually think as pleased as I was because we have a central team that does design.
As I'm pleased with that team -- central team on store design that came up with the magic to how to translate Athleta from an online business to bricks-and-mortar off-line business.
I really believe that team is going to do the exact same thing for Piperlime.
Now it's one store right? So nobody's going to get excited.
It's just we're going to do one store and whether there's another store from there or not we'll figure it out.
But it's something that our customers given that target for Piperlime I've asked for I think we should try it.
Now we did this for Athleta thinking more than Piperlime.
We could see some kind of rollout that was more what's the number how big it could be given -- because it's a different business.
But here I think we're going to find out whether it ends up being just a phenomenal marketing vehicle so be it.
If it ends up something greater than that they can have commercial success we'll look at it.
This will -- I won't know that answer from another year from today.
Now what it comes to the competitive landscape I'm not sure as much if it is the trends that is affecting the competitive landscape.
It's obviously still highly competitive out there but how our teams are thinking about it and I'm saying this a little bit to Brian.
This investment in marketing to be determined what level and to what pace we're going to keep it going.
But the intention behind that at Banana Republic online -- Banana Republic a lot of direct-mail.
Online obviously some investments and online media for the total brand for online business and for our store business and the out-of-home marketing we're doing for Gap brand.
The intention behind that is to really showcase the brand and get excited behind the product and the positioning of those 2 businesses.
And because of that we hope and we saw that in the first quarter where we become less reliant on some of the promotions that all of us got caught up to starting in the summer of 2008.
So I'm thinking maybe you're correct I need a little bit of the trend maybe a little bit that the consumer conditions are slightly better than a year ago.
They're not great but slightly better than a year ago.
And some unique marketing and I would say traffic driving initiatives that each brand is digging look at Old Navy they're doing something called Super C-A-S-H which is a bounce back program which is very successful for them that reduces their dependency on just traditional promotional needs.
So all of our teams are thinking one creatively; secondly theyre always thinking about the customer and what the brand stands for for them; and thirdly which matters most to me how do I win and beat the competition through great ways of getting people across our lease line at a value proposition that fit each one of our brands.
And your next question comes from the line of Dana Telsey with Telsey Advisory Group.
As you think about marketing Glenn how do you think of marketing by brand -- marketing plans by brand certainly with what you've done with Old Navy? How do you see it resonating given the enhancement you've made in the product? And just on the product side the needle movement between product and price obviously more opening price points at Old Navy.
How do you see that architecture moving forward? On the marketing as I mentioned on the call how I think about it I guess across the brands I mean we came into the year feeling actually pretty good because we put a lot of time on product and on marketing platforms in the fall of 2011.
So I came in thinking for the first time since I've been leading the business we've had a clear sense of our product direction.
And therefore I would feel more confident I haven't decided yet how much marketing to put into each one of our businesses but I felt more confident than I felt it a long time putting marketing behind the direction and what I believe to be the sustainable direction.
It's not just a onetime quarter we're hoping our -- that our teams who've worked really hard design teams our merchant teams really get the clearer view now of long-term momentum sustainable great product inside of our stores.
So the marketing whether it's the platform I talked about earlier on Be Bright whether it's the versatile new work at Banana Republic whether it's Funnovations Inc.
with the key focus there being on fun and expression of value at Old Navy I actually think that our marketing has delivered for us in the first quarter.
And no different than product.
The marketing teams know that we expect benefit we expect traffic we expect a step up in relevance.
Because otherwise why put the money forward? And that's one of the key components for us.
Now focus on Old Navy.
Old Navy is a brand and a value sector.
It's a huge competitive advantage.
So they have to continue to feed marketing.
They have plenty of marketing from last year's.
It's not -- it's not any fresh marketing going into Old Navy.
They have plenty of marketing from Elway.
Their issue is just continue to do the right kind of marketing and the right kind of messaging to build on that differentiation of being a brand in the value sector.
Now in the product and price which we all -- obviously all you including Dana the industry call what's our value proposition look I believe the company because of the unique year in 2011 may have gotten off what I thought was a very good pricing architecture value proposition in 2010.
Now there was unique circumstances.
But we've already had our moment where we said we made some mistakes in 2011 by not staying true to a value proposition and pricing architecture that workforce in 2010.
So it wasn't very difficult to go back because the competitive landscape is not such a change for us that anyone of our brands would have to dramatically shift the architecture and the value proposition in 2010.
We just got to tweak it.
And I think that I've been part of meetings with the teams because that's something I get involved with when it comes to the brands.
And I do believe there's always work.
This is not a static moment.
It's fluid.
But the work I've seen done so far what I want to throw -- in fairness I want to throw our outlet business in there too which is a very important pricing architecture and their promotional positioning.
But I look at all of those businesses including online I think some very good decisions are being made.
But I expect them one to stay highly competitive to know exactly who they're up against where their share needs to come from and make sure they protect their value proposition going forward while making good intelligent decisions.
Your next question comes from the line of Laura Champine with Cannacord Genuity.
Research Division</strong> Sabrina I just wanted to dig a little bit more into the EBIT rate guidance.
Because we were surprised that it's not changed given the success that you've shown in Q1.
Are there additional expenses that you're adding to the back half? Could you comment on that a little bit more? And also what kind of contribution do you expect to profits from the franchise business this year? So I think with regard to overall operating margin there really Laura has been no change in our overall view of the how the year plays out with regard to driving that about 10% operating margin.
So again we're saying we want to drive some top line we want to do it at healthy margins with some margin expansion in the back half.
And then we're going to deleverage operating expenses and that's sort of the recipe to how you get to about 10.
And so really no fundamental change in how we are doing the business for the full year.
And then the second part of your question was? Research Division</strong> The contribution...
Oh franchise.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Yes so franchise is segmented but I think Glenn and I have said several times that as you can imagine that model is a very healthy model.
So we're very pleased to see it growing 30% in the quarter and continued growth through new partners and new countries.
It's obviously very capital light.
It drives a very nice profile for us in terms of earnings growth and a very nice return on sales.
So the more that mix is in the happier we are.
And your last question comes from the line of Robin Murchison with SunTrust.
Okay.
Well I'd like to thank everyone for joining us on the call today.
As a reminder our earnings press release which is available on gapinc.com contains a full recap of our Q1 results as well as the forward-looking guidance included in Sabrina's remarks.
And as always the Investor Relations team will be available after the call for further questions.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
My name is Jemariah and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Gap Inc.
Second Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to introduce your host Katrina O'Connell Vice President of Investor Relations.
Good afternoon everyone.
Welcome to Gap Inc.'s Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
For those of you participating in the webcast please turn to Slides 2 and 3.
I'd like to remind you that the information made available on this webcast and conference call contains forward-looking statements.
For information on factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements as well as reconciliations of measures we're required to reconcile to GAAP financial measures please refer to today's press release as well as our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and our most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q all of which are available on gapinc.com.
These forward-looking statements are based on information as of August 16 2012 and we assume no obligation to publicly update or revise our forward-looking statements.
Joining us on the call today are Chairman and CEO Glenn Murphy; and Executive Vice President and CFO Sabrina Simmons.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Glenn.
Thank you Katrina and good afternoon everybody.
As has been customary in the last number of calls I'm going to provide some color on the performance in the second quarter and then I'm going to hand over to Sabrina who will take you through a much more detailed review financially.
Now the second quarter there was a lot of bright spots inside the business that we feel good about.
There's been a lot of effort a lot of energy being directed to get us to where we are today.
So I think the best thing for me to do is maybe take you through some of those bright spots and give you my sense of what we're doing and to give you a little more information behind the P&amp;L.
So let's start with sales which was very positive in the second quarter.
We had a 4% comp and that was made up by our 3 North American brands: a 7% comp in Gap North America 7% Banana Republic and a 3% comp at Old Navy.
And that's the second quarter in a row where the disbursement of our comp was very much driven almost equally across all 3 of the brands.
That's very positive.
When that happens our business does very well as you can see by the $0.49 earnings per share the company accomplished.
Now there are a number of reasons why our business has been consistently positive for the first half of this year.
The number one reason is product and where there's been a lot of focus a lot of effort starting late last year with our product teams.
I'm really proud of the work they've done in the first half whether that's on the right styles which obviously we've had great success with so far particularly in the second quarter.
The color trend has been good for the industry but we've capitalized on it.
I think we've really focused on fit and consistency of fit and our scores on that front are improving into the second quarter.
And lastly we've made these targeted investments in key categories categories where we want to dominate where we want to win.
And those are our product assets.
And weve put the money behind those assets.
And our customers are noticing it.
Second thing when it comes to sales is I think we're flowing our product in a much more seasonally correct way.
One thing that I've always been frustrated about is that July and January in particular have never been our best months.
I think the teams are doing a much better job of reacting to that and putting seasonally more correct product that customers want in our stores this past month.
And lastly I'm going to take my hat off to our store teams.
Our store execution in the second quarter was very good.
There was a lot of stores in the second quarter.
I saw not only the enthusiasm behind our store associates but I think the standards the execution the visual merchandising the windows were all a step above.
That's been a big contributor to the company's performance on sales.
Gap Inc.
Direct was up 24%.
That obviously helps.
When you look at our 4% comp in the second quarter that was a good performance by that team.
And the only thing that we're focusing on is our traffic was negative.
And we know for the business to fire on all cylinders we not only need to have AUR happening store execution the right product investments but we need to have positive traffic.
So youll see some further focus in that area in the second half of 2012.
Now we did end strongly which I felt great about.
I mean that was a 10% comp in July.
It's been a long time since we've had a double-digit comp like that.
The calendar shift helped a little bit.
We're a very holiday-driven business with so many outlet stores and Old Navy.
Regardless of that a 10% comp was a very nice way to end the quarter.
Next I want to talk about is our International business.
We had a minus 5% comp in Q2.
And they expected and we expected a better business.
So let me give you a little further color behind that minus 5% performance.
It's obviously difficult in Europe right now.
But what we feel good about our actual store distribution in the European market is we're very concentrated in key cities.
London Paris Milan and Rome is a big percentage of our European business.
As Europe begins a recovery at some point in the future I think we're positioned properly by being much more dominant in those key cities.
In Japan this was the first full quarter that anniversaried the disaster of 3/11.
And us like other Japanese retailers were clearing through spring and summer product as traffic dropped significantly in the Japanese market.
So we were up against that very aggressive clearance quarter.
And I believe that that will be behind us more in the third quarter and in the fourth quarter.
And we have expectations that we'll have a better performance in Japan in the second half.
And China's too small right now to be material to our comp number.
Our total sales in the second quarter were up 6%.
International business was up 7%.
So even though the comp was negative total sales were up 7% internationally.
Our Franchise business up 25% continues to go from strength to strength.
Athleta opened 11 stores.
I'm going to pause for a second.
That's just a really good number for a young team to execute and deliver on.
I was in a lot of those stores this summer.
I think the store teams have executed well and customers are responding very positively to have a physical presence of the brand in their neighborhood.
Our global outlet business added 10 stores in the second quarter.
That contributed to the 2% spread.
And lastly we opened up our first Old Navy store outside of North America in Tokyo.
I was there the week after it opened and was really impressed not only by how well we translated the brand into a whole new market but the response of customers and families in particular which is the cornerstone of the Old Navy brand was great to see when I was in Tokyo.
So that will lay a nice groundwork.
We're testing ideas we're trying different things but I think that sets us up nicely for the rollout of Old Navy in Japan in 2013.
From a margin perspective we had a very nice lift in the second quarter.
We are working aggressively on ticket integrity selling product at full regular price.
I think that's been helpful to us.
That doesn't just happen through a great product although that's the initial first driver.
It happens through words in the store or how our store associates sell it what goes in the window.
It also helps that the marketing investments we are making we are creating demand on the first day.
It either shows up online or shows up in the store.
And this was the first quarter since late 2011 where our average unit cost our cost of goods were not significantly above the year before and that contributed to the performance.
As a business we are still very committed to making the right thoughtful investments in our SG&amp;A line.
One is marketing.
Gap North America has been receiving some incremental marketing in the first half of this year driving the Be Bright campaign.
That has had really good feedback.
Whether it's online we've heard through social media or in our stores the campaign is resonating.
Our digital investment like other retailers we're putting money behind digital.
Whether that's online marketing or other tools we understand where customers are shopping we understand where they're getting their information.
We've done some very good work on that front.
And lastly some moneys gone into store labor.
We've got some service models we're looking at selectively in key stores.
We're testing some ideas as I think there's an investment there in the second quarter that helped.
And in closing when you perform and deliver $0.49 in earnings per share over last year's $0.35 a 40% increase in EPS of course I think overall people here are energized.
It's a good feeling inside the business.
What I have to do is make sure everybody stays focused.
And that's what's critical is what got us here to this performance.
I just keep doing that.
I keep repeating it.
We mentioned on these calls before the last fall was an important moment in the company: make sure that Gap Inc.
comes out strong at the beginning of 2012.
And that's what we've done.
But we know that sustained performance is what matters and everybody here is working hard every single day to make sure we maintain the momentum in the back half that we enjoyed in the first half of 2012.
So with that said let me hand over Sabrina who will take you through the financial results of Q2 2012.
Sabrina? Thank you Glenn.
Good afternoon everyone.
We're very pleased with our second quarter performance as we again made meaningful progress against our 2012 priorities including driving increased sales investing in our business and growing earnings per share.
Here are some highlights.
Consistent with the first quarter net sales were up 6% comparable sales were up 4% and our North American divisions again each posted positive comps.
Operating margin was up 200 basis points.
Earnings per share grew 40%.
And in addition we generated strong free cash flow and returned approximately $410 million to shareholders through our share repurchases and dividends.
Please turn to Slide 4 for our earnings recap.
In the second quarter operating income was up $91 million or 27%.
Net earnings were up $54 million and earnings per share were $0.49 up from $0.35 last year.
Turning to Slide 5 sales performance.
Second quarter total sales were $3.6 billion up 6% with comp sales up 4%.
Total sales and comps by division are listed in our press release.
Turning to Slide 6 gross profit.
Gross profit dollars grew by 14% to $1.4 billion.
Second quarter gross margin was up 300 basis points to 39.9%.
Our merchandise margins were up 210 basis points driven by the combination of growth in average unit retail and decreases in average unit costs.
Rent and occupancy leveraged 90 basis points.
Turning to inventory on Slide 7.
As foreshadowed in our July sales press release inventory per store in terms of dollars was down 6% on last year's up 5%.
Please turn to Slide 8 for operating expenses.
Weve noted throughout the year that we plan to invest more in our businesses in 2012 and highlighted that it's likely we'll deleverage operating expense.
In line with that framework second quarter total operating expenses were approximately $1 billion up $85 million from the prior year.
The increases were focused on our Gap Inc.
Direct division which grew sales 24% in the quarter as well as marketing and store payroll investments across our other channels.
Marketing expenses grew $33 million to $147 million with the biggest increase driven by Gap brand's investment in windows outdoor and digital media.
Please turn to Slide 9 for capital expenditures and store count.
Second quarter capital expenditures were $149 million.
With regards to company-operated stores we opened 9 stores on a net basis and ended the quarter with 3 035 stores.
Net square footage was down 2% compared to Q2 2011.
Store count and square footage by division are listed in our press release.
Regarding cash and share counts on Slide 10.
Year-to-date free cash flow was an inflow of $673 million and we ended the second quarter with about $2.1 billion in cash and short-term investments.
In the second quarter we repurchased 13.1 million shares for $349 million at an average price of $26.65.
We ended the quarter with 479 million shares outstanding.
And now I'd like to discuss our outlook for the rest of the year.
Please turn to Slide 11.
Given our progress during the first half of the year we are raising our estimate for full year earnings per share which includes the 53rd week to $1.95 to $2.
In addition we are increasing our full year operating margin guidance from about 10% to about 11%.
As a reminder it's our objective to drive consistent top line growth while delivering healthy merchandise margins.
A few things to keep in mind regarding our margins.
While our average unit costs are improving in the back half versus 2011 they are not back to 2010 levels.
It's also important to remember that in each quarter of 2011 and through Q1 of 2012 our average unit retails grew as we decreased units in the face of escalating product costs.
Therefore our plan to introduce more unit inventory in the second half of 2012 primarily at Old Navy may cause our average unit retail growth to slow compared to the first half of the year.
Regarding inventory.
Although we plan to add units during the second half because the cost of each unit is lower inventory dollars per store at the end of Q3 are expected to be down in the low single digits to last year.
Regarding operating expenses.
Given the progress we've made on our product as evidenced by customer response year-to-date we believe it's prudent to continue to invest in areas like marketing and store payroll.
Specifically we expect the increase over last year in operating expense in each of the remaining quarters to be at least as large as it was in the second quarter.
As a result we continue to expect to deleverage operating expense in the second half.
Moving on to cash.
Our principles remain intact.
Our stated priorities for the uses of cash are first to reinvest in our business to the degree we have projects that will deliver appropriate returns; and second to distribute excess cash to shareholders via dividends and share repurchases.
Given the improvement in our operating performance we are increasing our full year capital guidance and are comfortable spending up to $675 million versus our previous guidance of about $600 million.
Consistent with our strategy the increase will be focused on remodels that accompany store consolidations and downsizes as well as other store-related projects.
We also plan to continue repurchasing shares opportunistically though it's important to note we've consistently stated we expect the level of share repurchase to be more modest in 2012.
Finally we plan to repay our $360 million term loan.
This repayment which has no prepayment penalty will eliminate negative spread and further support our investment grade rating.
The following full year guidance metrics remains unchanged: net square footage down by about 1%; company-operated stores net of repositions about 120 openings and about 115 closures; depreciation and amortization about $475 million; effective tax rate about 39.5%.
In closing we're pleased with how we executed against our strategies during the first half of the year and our focus on delivering on our goals for the remainder of the year.
Thank you and now I'll turn it over to Katrina.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We'll now open up the call to questions.
And we'd appreciate limiting your questions to one per person.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question will come from the line of Barbara Wyckoff with Credit Agricole Securities.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about China and potential expansion in China? How many stores are you going to open over the next 3 or 4 years? Can you compare some of the metrics on those stores relative to say the U.S.
stores or Japan? It's a little premature to talk out 3 to 4 years what -- just as a sort of reminder to everybody on the phone we're going to do 30 stores this year.
That's our commitment.
The news within that 30-store profile is that we're going to open up in 5 new cities.
So we'll be in 10 cities at the end of the year which sort of part of our real estate strategy was to go into Beijing Shanghai Hong Kong.
And then last year we opened up in 2 other cities which were Tianjin and Hangzhou and we're going be in 5 more cities by the end of this year.
Such newsworthy because it allows us to answer your question actually Barbara which is I'm not saying anybody but brands if you have a brand positioning globally you can go into Shanghai Beijing and Hong Kong and likely carve yourself up a decent-sized business.
But to find out how big can China become given the fact that it's the second biggest market for apparel in the world just passed Japan about 12 months ago we decided to go in and make sure how well can we perform.
But again to your point on productivity on return on capital on sort of overall sales how can we do in markets that we're going to need to get into and penetrate and be successful in order to have a meaningful business.
So that's important for us to learn that.
Second thing we did we went online day 1 which we'll have our second anniversary this November.
That was also important to find out: how would the Chinese consumers buy online because it's different than it is here in the U.S.
and that's not uncommon.
In a lot of countries the online penetration the reception of it yes can be different.
We've been very pleased with our online business.
That's good to our overall strategy.
And the third leg to answer your question in the future is we're opening 3 outlet stores this year.
And I was actually just in China and I was really impressed.
I did outlet centers before but I saw our 2 stores 2 of the 3 that are under construction and the quality of the sites the quality of the cotenancy which is really good for us.
You're talking about Coach and Nike and people who we actually have nice cotenancy relations with here in the U.S.
So I think I was impressed with that.
So the answer we'll know probably a little bit more at our analyst meeting next year.
We'll be able at a -- figure out more about our strategic plan for China where that's going to go.
And -- but I'm -- I've always been a believer that that was a great market for us because of our multiple brands which we've not decided yet beyond Gap if we're going to do anything.
The only decision we made so far is one brand with multiple channels.
But I've always felt good about the market because of the American component of our brands and how well that resonates with Chinese consumers.
And the last part will be that we do very well and our marketing has skewed towards the millennials here in North America and a version of that in China is the golden generation.
And I think our marketing our positioning what we stand for what this company believes in those brands -- our brands have -- our brand so far has done very well.
So more to come but we're off to a very good start.
Your next question comes from John Morris with Bank of Montral.
I wanted to ask a little bit about the plans that you have talked about with respect to taking some of the savings that you've had from lower product costs cotton and whatnot.
You mentioned and touched on this in some of your prepared remarks but maybe go a little bit deeper where we might expect to see that reinvestment deployed.
I think we've talked about fabrics before but you're pointing to labor payroll and it sounds like marketing.
So knowing those maybe go deeper on each one of those and how you see the returns from those investments coming in what gives you the confidence that you'll see the returns? Clearly we see the improvement in product but more color there would be great.
I'll take them in the order in which you put them forward John.
I'd say in the product side which is -- and you add together the amount of money that Sabrina and I were comfortable working with our brand presence this year reinvesting in 2012 given one our -- a sort of stepped up level of confidence.
We are nowhere near where we want to be but we'd start feeling more comf [ph] than last fall as we look towards the spring and what our teams were able to get done and some of the changes obviously we made to get the confidence we started to feel internally last fall.
So it starting with the product piece that's the larger amount of the reinvest we're making in product.
You saw some in the spring and we were able in the spring to get an early read and we have ways these days to get a little earlier read than we used to.
So I would say that that encouraged us to continue on the same path.
Maybe a bit of a step-up in investment in the third quarter in product and the fourth quarter will be about the same as the third quarter.
So the majority of this is if you talk to our teams and you've heard me say this before but it's always worth repeating to me the success ultimately of us selling products at full price and driving the kind of AUR performance that we believe we need to have inside of this business given our brands starts with having the right styles and that's -- belongs to our design team and having the right color.
That's in spite of the move towards a color trend this year.
We were not happy with the colors we put forward last year.
So style color fit is critical which again our design team and our production team owns.
And there were some decisions made on categories that we want to be more dominant in.
And I've listed some in the past.
In Gap it's get -- be -- being dominant in babyGap being dominant in denim.
That's important.
For obviously Banana Republic it's in suiting and that's in woven shirts.
But taking some of those categories that we can go out and we can give them the space they need because if you're going to put an investment in quality that should come then with an investment in inventory which should come with an investment in space in the store which should come with an investment of the service model inside the store and lastly investment in marketing.
So what we've been working on since last fall is the continuum of that taking a product asset in each one of our brands and not just putting quality for the sake of putting quality because in some cases that could be money unnecessarily being spent.
But being disciplined in how we do it and then take it all the way that continuum I just took you through.
So I'd say the difference you'll see in fall and holiday versus spring and summer is some decisions weve made on categories that we're able to chase into or some speed categories where we still think there's an opportunity to ultimately get.
The goal here is to drive our value proposition which is not overpaying for quality.
So putting the quality where it makes sense making sure of the right ticket price and driving right-price sales.
Marketing early days.
I made -- I mentioned in my opening comments that if there's a metric that Sabrina and I are staring at and going "We'd like to see a little bit more of that" is traffic.
And there's no need to unnecessarily beat ourselves up over 40% increase in EPS but we are always looking for the next opportunity.
So the marketing piece and I'm sure people have heard this maybe from other retailers but as you shift your business model ever so slightly we're still going to offer value we're still going to have promotions.
That's important particularly at Old Navy and in our outlet business.
But as we shift to marketing what is the acceptable lag effect until that pool of traffic gets replenished so maybe it's a better quality pool of traffic.
So Sabrina and I are working with the brand presence.
We'll make sure those investments.
First of all it's good quality marketing.
In the past when we have not spent money in marketing because we weren't happy with it.
And our marketing leaders know that if we're happy with the marketing and it makes sense and it's going to drive traffic and it's going to inspire customers we'll put the money behind it.
So I think the Gap will continue to be I'd say the focus in the back half Gap brand mostly in North America.
As Barbara asked earlier China will continue to be a focus because it takes a long time to build your brand in China.
And maybe it's a little smaller but still important to us is Athleta as we're starting to build that brand and put the stores out.
After all a physical store is a manifestation of the marketing investment to create the brand.
So back half we're committed to it.
And look first call in February we said we'd take it quarter by quarter.
But now that we've seen -- and we look at a lot of research besides traffic.
We're feeling comfortable about the back half about some investments in marketing.
And the labor piece.
That one I tried to say in the opening call it's really just some tests we're doing right now in our labor modeling.
We made some tough decisions on labor during the heights of the recession in 2008 2009 and we know that ultimately our store environment our store experience is critical.
So whether that's the capital investments we're making the right ones but also labor investments I would say that's more predominant inside of Banana Republic and Gap and more predominant inside big markets.
And so you look at the top 10 DMAs you look at those 2 big brands and that's where the labor tests and trying to step up our service model is taking place.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from Brian Tunick with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I guess Glenn we know we're still a month away I guess from the new Old Navy President starting but wondering if you can give some of your thoughts of -- how you thought the 2Q numbers looked at that business and then how you think that brand is positioned today and sort of what's your hopes maybe a year from now of what you and the new President can do for the positioning and also what he brings to the overall company.
Well I have -- I have a lot of thoughts on that but I'm going to keep it short because obviously for the company to step up and hire somebody as impressive as Stefan from such a company that we respect like H&amp;M just because we do believe through multiple meetings with him in the spring before he made the decision he was going to join us we liked how he was thinking about retail about product about winning and what he's done in his past and his global experience.
So as I said in the previous call we're just very excited for him to join us in October.
In advance of him joining us and I'll get back to him in a second I'm quite pleased with what Nancy Green and Tom Sands have done.
You've got to give them credit.
A lot of times at retail when a leader leaves businesses tend to sort of stay status quo in some cases even flounder because leadership changes can be impactful on a brand.
And so kudos to them.
We might step in to help out as much as I can but they've really led that business and that team.
I'd say the thing that they've been doing is I think that they've been really cleaning up and keeping the business simple because I'm a big fan of taking on new initiatives in the business and at times you may take on a little bit too much and Old Navy is cleaning that up.
They've gotten very very focused on 3 initiatives.
That's all they talk about.
I'm not going to share those on the phone but just 3 key focuses that whole business had and that's what they brought.
Another thing I will add I believe our agency and our marketing team which right now Michelle DeMartini is overseeing for us she's one of our most senior merchants -- our marketing at Old Navy which I love the positioning of the brand we've talked about but has not changed since I've been here but the new platform and how to communicate the voice of the brand has really been good.
I've been pleased since June.
And you've seen their business and I think that's helping their business quite a bit.
I mean obviously it starts with product like every other brand.
But more than any other brand I think their marketing has really resonated with their customers and I've been very happy with that.
What's Stefan going to do it's -- I said I -- in fairness to him he's had many many months to think about it but until he gets here and meets the team and works with them and figures out what he believes strategically he's going to do matches up with what's -- what the team was able to get done.
It's a little too soon to tell.
I do know and I'm -- so just an appropriate forum to share it with you I do know what his vision is having talked to him back in may.
Obviously he's away from us till October but the last time I talked to him whatever it was 6 months ago 4 months ago I know that he definitely has a vision of what he wants to.
So we'll see how that plays out and translates inside of our business.
I -- but I want to make sure one thing that's important to me to make clear.
His coming into the business was not driven by the most recent global ambitions we have for the brand.
That's a given.
I mean he opened in a number of the countries at H&amp;M.
Obviously they're a global retailer like Gap is a global brand that is.
So that I think is icing on the cake.
I believe he is going to come in with a very strong perspective and position when it comes to product.
That's what he knows having worked in that business.
So that's not taking Old Navy to H&amp;M because he's understand the difference.
But I believe he's going to really help us between the design conceptually to the merchandising to the process to the cost part all the way to in-store execution.
I think that part of Old Navy he is going to be super strong at and the global piece will come over time.
We only got one store in Japan.
I think that'll just be a nice story to talk about in 2 3 4 years from now.
Your next question will come from the line of Dorothy Lakner with Caris &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A question for Sabrina.
You gave us a lot of detail about how you're looking at gross margin and the various components particularly on the merchandise margin side in the second half of the year.
And I know you had said after first quarter don't expect that kind of leverage on rent and occupancy that we saw in the first quarter.
And we didn't in second quarter.
So my question is how should we look at that component of gross margin in the second half? And are you talking about Dorothy the ROD component in particular? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes yes.
Yes.
Yes.
I guess to try and be helpful because we don't guide explicitly to ROD.
I did take note as you mentioned in the first quarter that that was an unusually high amount of leverage and it would be not prudent in our view to extrapolate that.
Sure enough the ROD leverage was the same kind of level of comp at plus 4.
It was 90 basis points in Q2.
There are many variables that we've talked about that quarter-to-quarter could impact ROD including the timing of our store openings settlements with landlords when amendments come through.
So there's a lot of variables.
But what I would say is the Q2 relationship to that level of comp is certainly a more appropriate level than we saw in Q1.
So that would be a good kind of starting point to think about it for the rest of the year.
Your next question comes from Randy Konik with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Glenn obviously your tone is very upbeat.
What did you think you have to -- where you could have improved during the next quarter to get to that next level for the company? And it looks like obviously you're going to start to grow again here.
So it feels like a more sustainable basis.
Where do you think the organization at this size can grow if we think about a normalized growth rate? And then lastly do you -- what's your long-term kind of vision for Athleta? And do you think we're going to get some more concrete long-term vision on what you think -- how big you think that organization can be at your analyst meeting in the fall? Okay let me try to deal with that one at a time.
I'd say the first one Randy is something I -- to be repetitive that's what I said to John I think the traffic number was a number -- and I'm not here to rank necessarily all the metrics in order.
Let's say you know the company and a lot of people on the phone do.
We're never really happy.
And I think that our team has definitely embraced that sentiment.
If there's a -- this is a quarter where we celebrate a few small wins.
And we had some small wins but the team executed well.
We're particularly pleased as I said in my opening comments coming off last year where we were not at all happy with the business.
Even though there was some circumstances outside of our control we just weren't happy.
Traffic is a number that we would prefer to not see negative.
It's a number that we do look at holistically between our specialty business our outlet business and our online business.
If you look at it holistically it's probably a different picture.
But at the end of the day our store traffic being negative in the quarter is something that all of our teams our store leaders our brand presidents all know that in order to be happy as a business we'd like to see all our metrics in positive territory with the with the exception of AUC.
Such is the way we have to start looking at the business.
And -- but we also know that businesses' comp is an outcome.
What -- how you get to comp is by taking certain strategies and really trying to take them deep.
So this is just hypothetical but maybe one brand is working more on AT one brand is working more on units per transaction one brand maybe working more on AUR.
They have to pick the metric that supports their overall strategies.
And as long as the key metrics they're trying to move in a positive direction to get to an outcome like comp is the framework of their performance is meeting what they tell us they're going to do then Sabrina and I are happy.
But yes we're always looking for -- knowing this business as well as I do now coming from obviously different industries what I do know as a metric that is going very well for you for a period of time you'd be foolish to count on it for a number of years.
So you always have to make sure there's other metrics that could get to the outcome of comp that you're putting plans in place to strengthen them.
As one of the outcomes we're trying to get to your second question can we grow long term.
It's obviously our goal.
But when I think of growth one thing I do want to put forward only because it's a number I asked Katrina for the other day is in Q2 2011 we had 163 more stores than we do today.
By that I mean we closed 163 stores between Q2 '11 and Q2 '12.
When you think of growth I always think comp is a metric that everybody should look at but I'm all about top line sales.
So that's a number we've said publicly that we're closer to the end of our real estate strategy which involves closing down square footage at a time necessary consolidation from Kids and baby [indiscernible] Gap into Adult and also closing stores.
We've done more.
We have more to do but we've done more in the last 3 years.
We're closer to the end than the beginning.
That will certainly help top line growth.
And that's a number that's important to me.
Comp plus spread equals total sales.
While I'm not -- I have huge appreciation for comp I have always been about top line sales.
So I think growth I think will look more promising in the future when we get to the end of executing our real estate strategy.
And lastly Athleta you heard me pause on my opening comments.
I mean 11 stores in one quarter to a team that 18 months ago didn't have a store it's pretty impressive when you think about it.
I mean some people obviously open 150 200 stores in a quarter but for that team to come where they've come and I've been to a lot of real estate to hear the comments from customers in particular who wanted a physical manifestation of that brand I'm very proud of that team in Petaluma led by Scott Key.
They've done a great job.
And this is early days.
Well I'd to tell you in the spring about what our plans for 2013 but we will open our 25 stores in 2012.
We feel good about it right now.
Great customer response.
And I think that they think and I'm more willing to support them than not although it's early days they feel they've got a bit of a tiger by the tail.
And let's them feel that way.
Nothing wrong with a little bit of confidence from our latest brand.
We'll have more to talk about from Athleta in our meetings in the spring.
Your next question will come from the line of Evren Kopelman with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about the Gap outlet channel.
Maybe we see I think a lot of the time -- more of the time the products and the full-price stores and the marketing.
Maybe talk about the products and marketing initiatives for the outlet stores.
And how's store traffic there? Is it also negative? And how many stores are you at now? And where do you expect the growth there to be? Thanks for asking about outlet because that's -- I can talk about that business again.
And like I said about the Athleta we're very pleased and proud of our 2 leaders Ann Doyle and Andi Owen who run our 2 factory store outlet businesses.
Is the traffic better there than in a specialty store? The answer is yes.
So that's why I said earlier that if you take specialty plus outlet plus online and bring that together as one traffic number our traffic is actually not that bad.
But we have to look at it at channel by channel by channel.
And our outlet channel is definitely the traffic is better.
So that's good.
I think that's a little bit about the -- just the overall traffic that is in that genre of real estate.
But the other thing is our team -- I'm glad you mentioned marketing.
Our team is actually -- again for a team that had no marketing when I started here and don't have a big marketing budget but they're very very scrappy and smart about how they spend their marketing and they have great customer connections whether that's through emails or through some of the partnerships they've done.
So I think the marketing there which is not a big driver of this increase in our SG&amp;A but they are getting a little bit more marketing than they have in the past so they're making good use of it.
And what we don't talk about and that's -- I think everybody on this -- on the phone always wants to focus on our specialty business particularly Gap which I understand.
But the product improvement at the -- in the outlet channel has been equal at a minimum equal if not some feel they argue better.
But the step-up in the product and the investments what they've done there has been great.
Very very impressed.
I've been in those stores a lot.
I'll be out on Friday in some of them.
So those merchant teams those marketing teams under that leadership of a channel which we feel we have a competitive advantage in we would -- we will continue to drive globally is nothing short of impressive.
So that's -- it's good to see.
And we have high expectations for them going forward but that's -- they're off also to a very good start so far this year.
Your next question will come from the line of Adrienne Tennant with Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Glenn my question is it sounds like you're happy with the Old Navy television advertising.
And I was wondering if there are any changes to the fall season marketing plan for Old Navy and if you'll be adding Gap TV back.
And then Sabrina just a clarifying question.
On your operating expense guidance was that year-over-year or was that by percentage of sales? On Old Navy as I -- as far as I know that -- there's going to be maybe one last week of television in the third quarter.
But what I'm happy about is that as you put this new platform together back -- what has it been now just less than a year I'm really liking the new creative.
So people which is our core customer are responding positively to what they've seen over the last couple of months which I think has really helped our traffic profile.
And let's see how -- what transpires in the fall and holiday.
I think that the messaging how it resonates how well the creative is showing the product goes back to what I said earlier.
If you're making an investment in product it has to have a follow-up investment in store space in service model.
And ultimately marketing has to show the investments you're making in your product.
And I think Old Navy team has done a really good job of that as well as our agency.
So maybe one last week but I think it's better quality of marketing that we're putting out there.
And I just saw the holiday and the Thanksgiving ideas the team has and I actually feel really good about it.
It's a lot of work still to be done but they've put forward not only good Q3 ideas but the early ideas behind Q4 certainly motivate me to make sure that their spend stays at a minimum equal to last year.
But I think that's good.
And I think you'll...
And to clarify Adrienne thanks for asking the question what we meant is in the second quarter operating expenses were up $85 million.
That translates to about 9% increase over LY.
So we mean that in Q3 and Q4 you'd expect at least a 9% increase in operating expenses over last year's quarters.
Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
And then Gap TV? No plans right now.
I think one thing you should look for this fall is our new campaign just came out as we did shoot some film of the new Icons redefined campaign which supports Be Bright.
So it's the fall campaign for the Be Bright platform.
And we're going to be in cinema with that and definitely on social media.
And I think it's some of the better work we've also done.
So is there television in Gap's future? Maybe.
I mean we never said we'll never do it.
But at the same time right now we're very happy with the mediums we're using.
We're being very effective.
And digital's been a great medium for us.
I think our new marketing team our team here in San Francisco our teams around the world and our team in -- teams in New York really have embraced digital.
And if you can great content and use digital I think that that can be very effective too.
So if you do get a chance in the next week or so to see some of the film that was done and the content it is really -- it's really well done.
And it supports the brand and I think it resonates very strongly.
And could that lead to television? Only time will tell.
Your next question will come from the line of Betty Chen with Wedbush Morgan Securities.
Research Division</strong> Glenn I was hoping you can talk a little bit more about the core product categories for each of the brands.
I know that you had mentioned that the team is certainly focusing behind them in terms of style and fit and many of the other categories to make sure that the consumers continue to really be compelled to buy them at the right price.
So I was curious on so far now that we've got 2 quarters down how do you think about -- how is the team executing in those core categories in your opinion? And how is the team able to get earlier reads as you had mentioned I think earlier in the call? What are some of the message you're using? And then lastly I was just thinking in terms of the International business certainly we're going after many of the markets with different models.
Now that we're -- still early on but now that we're in some of these markets have your thinking in terms of how you're going into these markets varied at all? And can we look for some changes in the future? Okay.
It seems to be the day of 3 questions.
So on the first one what I do feel good about is that the stepped up performance in our top line sales for the most part has been driven by the categories we identified to make some reinvestments in.
I think I was giving my theory on comp earlier.
The same thing applies to product.
Comp is an outcome.
If you're -- if you have a 4% comp like we did in the second quarter across our multiple brands that was a 7% in Gap a 7% in Banana Republic a 3% at Old Navy let's just take Banana Republic for now.
So you had a 7% comp.
To get to that the team has to plan certain categories they really believe and want to invest with all the reasons I gave earlier to try to get to 10% comp in that business a 12% comp.
Because if you try to get everything at a 7% you're going to make some mistakes and the outcome will not be a 7%.
So what I do like about the business so far is where they decided to stand behind what they believed in.
This is not new.
We've always had categories we want to have a competitive advantage in we want to be dominant in our competitive set and want therefore to find product assets.
Those have not totally changed since I've been here.
We've just been more focused on them.
And this next slide was putting some money behind it and I think that's really worked out.
And I think the comp numbers are being driven in a large way by those categories we believe in.
Early reads all of our stores we don't have a model like some other businesses.
But the early reads where they help us but we're doing it through social media by getting us some early reads on products that's not quite bought which has been a helpful tool to us or finding a way as product goes on our online site earlier and goes on our store get early reads we could chase in that's the most effective form of speed we can do.
Early read I [indiscernible] go through again by crowd sourcing let's call it for lack of a better word and getting some feedback to help us better understand if that's the right product whether it's a pattern a print a color a style.
But really when you get in season that's when I get excited.
You get an early read online and read quickly through the fabric platforming we've done to be able to chase back in a very short period of time back in the goods that are going to be in our store more than 6 weeks.
That's a process that we've been talking about in these calls for a number of years.
We slowed speed down last year and chased down because with cotton being so unpredictable we didn't want to have a -- change our business model too aggressively in 2011.
In '12 now we pushed our teams and they've absolutely embraced the fact that there's a way to get some early reads albeit probably not used in our past and get to react more quickly.
So faster pipeline a speed pipeline and a way to get feedback from either a form of crowd sourcing or immediately through an online channel and then reacting to it much faster than we used to.
That's in the early days but it's helping us.
The last part the International formats we use the only thing we have ever said and then -- I don't think we ever changed any market we went corporate in and we wouldn't change any market we've gone franchise in.
It's the only thing we've ever said is as we look forward are there markets we consider joint venture.
We don't want to take that off the table.
That may be an option.
Look at a markets like India.
If we were to consider that at some point in the future the only way to go with India right now is through a joint venture.
So we're not against that if our franchisees wanted to turn it into a joint venture if there's a franchise opportunity to go to corporate.
We're not looking at those today.
But I would say as our business continues to evolve and we look at our performance we don't want to be completely married to the format we have.
But there isn't a single decision we've made so far to go franchise in a country that we would ever change.
I think every one of those was a good decision and there isn't a single corporate country we went into -- we are in today we'd ever turn to franchise.
So for the most part what we've done so far is we're going to stick with.
But let's look at the next 2 3 4 years and see if there's any change to the franchise relationships we have.
I doubt it.
But I'm just sort of saying that will be the only way we change any kind of relationship that we currently have in a market.
Your next question will come from the line of Paul Lejuez with Nomura Securities.
Research Division</strong> Glenn you talked about traffic being down.
Can you just clarify was traffic down at each brand? And regardless of the answer there can you maybe talk about what the comp drivers were at each of the brands whether it be conversion AUR UPT and how that might be likely to change as we move into the second half? I think you answered your first question rightly because I can't give it out by brand.
We were just sort of -- just given you a "total across the business" number.
Sabrina can shed some light definitely on all the different metrics.
I mean I have the metrics and I -- what I can say before I hand it to her is to repeat something I said earlier which is important that our teams definitely realize that you have to be at a -- look a little deeper into your -- into their business and say "Where do I want to drive something across some of the different metrics you mentioned " Paul "to get to the right outcome?" But at the same time they're always looking in the rearview mirror and going "What are some other metrics" they may want to strengthen because something could happen to UPT that's not of our making whether it's the economy or macro events.
So they're always trying to find a way to make sure that the delta between our highest-performing metric and our worst-performing metric is not too wide.
In our past that's been a problem we had.
so I think here they're trying to make sure that they tighten that up.
I'll let Sabrina give you some color on the metrics.
Yes and just a little bit more color on traffic because Glenn has been talking about that a bit I mean as he mentioned Gap outlet in particular.
But the outlet and Old Navy relative to the other divisions I think it's fair to say that value segment has had better traffic than the specialty segment broadly speaking on traffic.
With regard to the other comp lever metrics again we don't put [ph] division by division but it's generally true that average unit retail being up and conversion being up are the 2 strongest metrics that drove the performance across the quarter.
Your final question for today will come from the line of Lorraine Hutchinson with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on the operating margin guidance of 11%.
You're running nicely above that year-to-date.
I understand there are some investments to continue to be made.
But what are the drivers that would cause the operating margin to fall below 11% to get to your full year target in the back half? As you know Lorraine I think there's just a lot of scenarios we run and I think we landed on about 11% because of the architecture of how we're looking at how the year will unfold.
We obviously have said it is our primary objective to drive consistent top line growth with healthy merchandise margins.
So we definitely want to see that nice expansion.
Offsetting some of that we tried to be very clear that we expect to deleverage on operating expenses.
So between that combination it's how we get to about 11%.
What we're pleased with is we started the year with about 10% guidance and it's obviously another objective of ours to expand our operating margin back over time.
So this is a nice step back standing here in Q2 that we feel comfortable bringing it up a whole point.
I'd just like to thank everyone for joining the call today.
As a reminder our earnings press release which is available on gapinc.com contains a full recap of our Q2 results as well as the forward-looking guidance included in Sabrina's remarks.
And as always the Investor Relations team will be available after the call for further questions.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's Gap Inc.
Second Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
My name is Jemariah and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Gap Inc.
Third Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to introduce your host Katrina O'Connell Vice President of Investor Relations.
Good afternoon everyone.
Welcome to Gap Inc.'s Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
For those of you participating in the webcast please turn to Slides 2 and 3.
I'd like to remind you that the information made available in this webcast and conference call contains forward-looking statements.
For information on factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements as well as reconciliations of measures we're required to reconcile to GAAP financial measures please refer to today's press release as well as our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and our most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q all of which are available on gapinc.com.
These forward-looking statements are based on information as of November 15 2012 and we assume no obligation to publicly update or revise our forward-looking statements.
Joining us on the call today are Chairman and CEO Glenn Murphy; and Executive Vice President and CFO Sabrina Simmons.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Glenn.
Thank you Katrina and good afternoon everybody.
Before I hand the call over to Sabrina I do want to talk about the quarter and the performance of Gap Inc.
in Q3.
I want to talk about the announcement from a month ago of the move of Gap Inc.
to global brands.
So let me start with that.
A month ago we announced that our business made a structural change that will be effective in February 2013.
In 2008 Gap Inc.
was an American-centric channel led business.
That was completely the appropriate structure for that time.
But we've been on a journey.
We have been moving the company at a pace that we're comfortable with you could never go from an American-centric organization to global brands without having stores in China without having online that was launched globally without having outlet stores internationally.
As those proof points came together it made sense this was the right time to move to a global brand structure.
This was driven by the customer.
Customers clearly are becoming more and more global.
As we go around the world and all of us travel there's more in common than I've ever seen between a customer in New York in London in Tokyo and Toronto and Istanbul.
So from our perspective looking at our business globally is very important to have one lens one management team looking at the brand across all different channels in all different international countries.
What we're expecting to get out of this change is speed for sure with one team deciding across every touch point we have to the customer.
We're going to get more efficiency which is critical.
This change definitely puts the brand ahead of channels.
Channels are important.
And the corporate strategy has been clearly identified as multiple channels.
But this is putting the brand first.
And secondarily it's about global over local.
Local is important.
We need to understand the local needs of our customers in Gap brand in particular that operates in over 40 countries.
But this is the global approach to the business first.
And this structure from my perspective has definitely been put in place to fuel long-term growth.
We've had a good year so far on growth.
We want to have strong growth every single year looking forward and this structure is going to be an enabler to that kind of performance.
Now let me talk about the quarter and I'll look at it a couple of ways one domestically internationally and also give you a little bit of commentary on our growth initiatives.
Domestically the business had an 8% comp that was a very good performance for our domestic brands.
Now what is encouraging as I talk to you about in the second quarter this was product-led.
Our product teams delivered the product to our online business to our stores that allowed us to get to this kind of comp and it's key categories.
Everyone of our brands has been strategically saying what's the category? This comp is an outcome.
You have to have a plan across the categories where you want to differentiate yourself how can you get a competitive advantage? Where do you want to put your inventory your marketing? Drive those categories to get to a comp and that's what we saw in this quarter.
The other thing I want to talk to you about is we've been working on more of a wear now approach.
There's been a couple of transition seasons between summer and fall and winter and spring.
I think as a business we've lost market share.
So this quarter more than anyone I've seen in our past was much better executed in that transition of product.
And that's why our comps were strong in August and September.
And lastly we had very good reg price selling.
Selling more products online and in our stores at regular price is a metric we're watching closely and does talk about long-term health of the brand.
On the International business we had a minus 3% comp.
Now our total sales were on par with our domestic business and that speaks to Old Navy Japan our China business our franchise business but our comp of minus 3% is something the team is focused on.
We would like to see the International business improve that trajectory through the corrective measures they are taking.
Let me give an update on the company's growth plans.
Our franchise team has opened in 8 countries already with 1 more to go.
So a very big year for that team in terms of number of new countries.
We opened up in Japan online.
So now Gap Inc.
has an online presence that we control.
In Europe in Canada in the U.S.
in China and now finally in Japan.
And if our strategy which we are so committed to multiple channels and to multiple geographies continues to produce the results we hope this was a critical step in that direction.
In China we're very comfortable with the performance of our business.
We're on track to open the number of stores we've committed ourselves to.
The milestone in the third quarter was we opened 4 outlet stores in China.
So in November 2010 we opened up 4 specialty stores with our online business day 1 and here we are less than 2 years later opening up our outlet centers in China which we believe will be a nice opportunity in that country.
And lastly Athleta continues to perform very well.
And most encouraging in this quarter is now we've opened up stores in all different kinds of real estate.
We have street stores we have mall stores we have lifestyle stores we have strip centers.
And what's been impressive is how well Athleta performs in everyone of them.
That opens up lots of opportunities for that brand if it can perform at this level going forward in all different types of real estate that makes the brand very flexible.
Let me close by mentioning we know it's been a very difficult time for people on the East Coast dealing with the aftermath of Hurricane Sandy.
Gap Inc.
has 28 000 employees that were in the path of the hurricane and what was primary to us was the safety of our employees nothing is more important to us than that and we're so happy that by all accounts our employees are safe and sound.
They've been impacted like so many other people.
That's why I want to encourage you on the phone if you haven't given please give money to any cause give to the Red Cross give to the Salvation Army.
People are in need even 3 weeks after this horrible event.
We're in the fourth quarter.
We've been preparing for this for many many weeks.
We know how important this quarter is.
We're 2 weeks in but this quarter now is all about execution.
How we're going to execute in the stores? How we're going to execute online? How we're going to execute in our outlet channels versus our specialty channels? This is what it comes down to.
I think our team has shown to continue to be even better at execution committed to it.
And this is a quarter where you want to go out you want to have the right product the right marketing you want to gain share and you want to win.
And that's our goal.
So with that said let me turn it over to Sabrina to take you through the financial performance of the third quarter.
Thank you Glenn.
Good afternoon everyone.
We're very pleased with our third quarter performance as we continue to make meaningful progress against our stated 2012 priorities including: driving increased sales with healthy merchandise margins prudently investing in our business and growing earnings per share.
Here are some highlights for the quarter.
Net sales were up 8% and comparable sales were up 6% with all North American divisions continuing to post positive comps.
Operating margin expanded by 380 basis points to 13.5% and earnings per share grew 66% to $0.63.
Please turn to Slide 4 for our earnings recap.
In the third quarter operating income was $520 million up $174 million and net income was $308 million up $115 million.
Turning to Slide 5 sales performance.
As customers continue to respond favorably to our product third quarter total sales were $3.9 billion up 8% with comp sales up 6%.
Total sales and comps by division are listed in our press release.
Turning to Slide 6 gross profit.
Gross profit dollars grew by 21% to $1.6 billion.
Third quarter gross margin was up 450 basis points to 41.2%.
Our merchandise margins were up 330 basis points driven primarily by decreases in average unit costs.
Rent and occupancy leveraged 120 basis points.
Turning to inventory on Slide 7.
With the benefit of average unit cost coming down during Q3 we were able to sell more units while managing our total inventory dollars tightly.
As a result inventory per store in terms of dollars was down 4% at the end of the third quarter.
Please turn to Slide 8 for operating expenses.
We've noted throughout the year that we plan to invest more in our businesses during 2012 and highlighted that it's likely we will de-leverage operating expenses.
In line with that framework third quarter total operating expenses were $1.1 billion up $105 million from the prior year with an ongoing focus on the areas of marketing and store payroll.
As a percent of sales total operating expenses de-leveraged by 80 basis points.
Marketing expenses grew $29 million to $178 million driven primarily by ongoing investments in Gap brand marketing and CRM.
Please turn to Slide 9 for capital expenditures and store count.
Year-to-date capital expenditures were $449 million.
With regards to company-operated stores we've opened 32 stores on a net basis year-to-date and ended the quarter with 3 068 stores.
Square footage was down 2% compared to Q3 2011.
Store count and square footage by division are listed in our press release.
Regarding cash and share count on Slide 10.
Year-to-date free cash flow was an inflow of $776 million and we ended the third quarter with about $1.8 billion in cash and short-term investments.
Year-to-date we spent $463 million on share repurchases including $96 million to repurchase 2.7 million shares in the third quarter.
We ended the quarter with 480 million shares outstanding.
And now I'd like to discuss our outlook for the remainder of the year.
Please turn to Slide 11.
Given our progress year-to-date we are raising our estimate for full year earnings per share which includes the 53rd week to $2.20 to $2.25.
In addition we are increasing our full year operating margin guidance from about 11% to about 12%.
As a reminder it's our objective to continue to drive consistent top line growth while delivering healthy merchandise margins.
As we lapped last year's average unit cost increases we expect fourth quarter merchandise margins to expand.
In terms of inventory inventory dollars per store at the end of Q4 are expected to be up in the low single-digits versus last year.
Regarding operating expenses we plan to continue to invest in areas like marketing and store payroll.
Therefore we expect the increase over last year in operating expenses in Q4 to be at least as large as the 11% increase in Q3.
And as a result we also expect to de-leverage operating expenses in the fourth quarter.
Moving on to cash.
We plan to continue repurchasing shares opportunistically though it's important to note we consistently stated we expect the level of share repurchase to be more modest in 2012.
As a reminder our third quarter weighted average diluted shares were 488 million.
Regarding our effective tax rate we now expect our full year rate to be about 39% down from our previous guidance of about 39.5% driven primarily by tax credits.
The following full year guidance metrics remain substantially unchanged: Square footage down by about 1%; company-operated stores about 15 net openings; capital expenditures about $675 million; depreciation and amortization about $475 million.
In closing we're very pleased with how we executed against our strategies in the first 3 quarters.
As we enter our most important selling season of the year we remain committed to executing on our financial goals while continuing to make improvements and investments in our business.
Thank you.
And now I'll turn it over to Katrina.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We'll now open up the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from the line of Betty Chen with Wedbush Morgan Securities.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering Glenn if you can speak a little bit more in terms of the commentary about each brand successfully pursuing key items or key categories how -- were there any learnings in terms of how those strategies played out? And what can we expect in terms of Q4? Well the categories that we've been focused on that's really been for at least the last 15 or 18 months.
I think you have a combination of 2 things going on.
We talked about this back in the call in February our sort of refocused design merchandise and inventory teams about what are the key businesses that we clearly see us gaining market share on that are right for the brand define the customer can be marketed properly.
And as I said in my commentary really provide either a competitive advantage because you have a product asset and a point of differentiation against our competition.
So I think the teams have been very much focused on that.
I think there may have been a moment in time where I think we were probably just spreading our focus a little too broadly.
Now I've always been a believer that if you have a set of categories that hit all the criteria mentioned earlier Betty and then you can bring in new businesses and new categories because the only way we're going to be at a comp consistently is to focus as I've said on -- about those key categories and product assets that each brand believes in while looking at new business opportunities that one day could become possibly a product asset.
So I think that it's that marriage of those 2 that allows the business to get an outcome of positive comps.
Now on Gap no big surprise.
You've got the denim business which our LA office working with the New York office and all those teams I really think that they've delivered since spring a denim offering that has not only driven and lifted the overall business but I think has been bringing in the right customer which is critical to Gap's marketing strategy.
And on top of that another of course are the product asset for Gap brand is it's Baby business.
I think those 2 just as examples have really helped propel the kind of comps you've seen at Gap brand and domestically.
In BR again no big surprise suiting has been a very strong business for us.
Men's and women's for the last 3 quarters and we've complemented that with woven tops which was stronger in men's for a long long time but it's nice to see this year a little bit of our investment in products has gone to women's woven tops.
And that's also been a very strong business for us.
At Old Navy it's been denim but really a focus on the Rockstar jean which is a little bit of a higher AIR.
Hopefully through that you materialize to a higher AUR.
But the fit the colors the marketing have all come together.
That and the Kids business at Old Navy especially in Q3 where the team I think did an exceptional job on back-to-school.
So execution of the plan for the last 15 months has been good but I think it's that combination I spoke about earlier that's important to me being right strategically right on the execution looking at new business opportunities and therefore the goal here is to have momentum on the comp performance in our global business.
But in this quarter particularly our domestic business was very strong.
Our next question is from Dorothy Lakner with Caris &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wondered Glenn if you could talk about regular price selling.
Clearly you're driving more of that business with regular prices.
But I just wonder where you are now relative to history and where you think the levels of regular price selling can go from here? What opportunities do you have over the next quarter and the next year? Well Dorothy I have to say we're just coming off 2008 and 2009 I think that the business probably lost perspective of what a healthy brand which we have 3 brands what that looks like and therefore what one of the measurements of success of a healthy brand which is how much -- what percent of your units go through at reg price.
This has been the best year we've had in a long time.
So I've been pleased with the step up.
Now that's a -- obviously it starts with the right decisions being made on product I was saying to Betty earlier that all holds true towards reg price selling.
I think inventory management had a tough a tough year last year.
It was difficult for them with the huge increases in AUC to buy right.
That probably didn't help in our goal last year even to try to get to better reg sell price.
There's been some really good decisions being made.
I think a little bit of that is process changes some investment in systems I think that has certainly helped that team.
Then you have the marketing investment we're making.
And then lastly I would say that our store team have been much more focused.
And I think we've been flowing the product to them that allows them to capture a better opportunity on reg price selling.
So we have really been pushing new arrivals.
I'm not going to give you the number but the percentage of weeks now that Old Navy flows new product it has -- I don't know this for a fact but my supposition is it has to be the highest it's ever been.
The number of weeks that Old Navy receives fresh new product.
So you put that all in combination and we've had a good year on that front.
Now what I will say to you that we have a long way to go to get to the numbers I think that all 3 brands should be at.
I think that's going to -- it's really going to happen through consistent performance on the product side and consistent execution and marketing.
But the team's commitment and I think our customers' response so far -- a big thing I've always believed in that we've done a decent job of but not as well as I thought we could have our actual initial pricing is very sharp across the different brands different customer groups.
If you look at the initial pricing at Old Navy at Gap at Banana Republic it's very good.
So our goal midterm and long term is to reduce our dependency on having to get off those prices because they are very good.
And this is really a global strategy that you're seeing being applied much more focused now in Europe in Japan and in China.
So I think the teams are pleased with the performance so far.
But to answer your question I think this is really early days for how high the bar can be for these 3 brands on reg price selling.
Now it helps having Athleta in the business because we realize how high is high because their reg price selling is very attractive.
It's been helpful too that Stefan joined the company because I think he has also been giving us a feeling from his perspective of what healthy looks like when it comes to reg price selling.
So I think those are just 2 other sort of data points that have reinvigorated the team to be committed to this metric over the next number of years.
Our next question is from Erika Maschmeyer with Robert W.
Baird &amp; Co.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk a bit about the traffic that you've seen? I know in the past you've mentioned that the traffic that you've gotten for your value businesses had exceeded Gap and Banana is -- is that still the case and can you talk a bit about the contribution from AUR as well? I will start with the traffic and then Sabrina can give you some insights on AUR.
That trend still holds true.
Our value businesses being made up of Banana Republic Factory Stores Gap Outlet and Old Navy their traffic is still noticeably stronger than it is at Banana Republic and Gap specialty stores.
So I think -- if I just give you one sort of approach we're taking.
Gap brand we've been putting more marketing behind the brand since spring.
And I think we've all been clear here that as we try to get more new customers some lapsed customers into the business and ultimately move that traffic metric it's going to take a little bit of time.
There's a lag effect that's going to take in Gap brand.
We're committed to the marketing.
We're committed to our messaging.
We're committed to the new mediums in the areas we're investing but we -- the team knows that there's an expectation that as we keep giving them more funds in marketing that at some point we're going to -- at some point we've explained to them there's a date we want to see the traffic be much -- on a much better trajectory than it's been so far in specialty.
It's not a disaster.
It's just not what we believe it should be long term.
And that's again the health of the business.
As I was answering some of the questions earlier I think when you're talking about better product and you're talking about better inventory management focused on key categories that again being consistently done is the ultimate driver of better traffic.
But marketing is something that we've taken very seriously this year and we've been again we've been pleased.
There's always improvement in our value business.
We've been pleased.
The third quarter was I think another -- another better performance by our 3 value businesses in terms of traffic.
But we'd like to see Banana Republic specialty and Gap specialty start to change the trajectory they've been on on traffic.
And so we'll watch that in Q4 and we'll see how we do.
Yes and Erika regarding AUR the quarter actually played out very similar to how we've framed it up on the Q2 call which was we stated that when -- with AUCs coming down overall we were going to be introducing more units into the system to get Old Navy especially back to a normalized level of units per store after last year.
And with that reintroduction of units we expected that the growth rate in AUR would not be as high as it was in the first half.
So in fact in Q3 overall AURs were up just very slightly.
And that phenomenon was really driven by Old Navy.
So that implies that of course Gap and Banana did better on AUR.
But overall for the company up modestly.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is from Kimberly Greenberger with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I'm wondering if you can look out to 2013 and beyond and just talk about where you see the opportunities to drive your business to the next level.
And what are the strategic priorities internally to drive both sales and margins higher over time? Well I think we'll probably have a lot more to say on that front in February in terms of what those levers are.
But suffice to say look we -- one big one that we've talked about publicly but it's also part of some of the performance improvement we've seen this year and something we believe in long term will continue to add value to the business on the operating margin side is this shift in our mix of our business towards where the customer is.
And it just happens to be where we think we have a competitive advantage against our global competitors.
So the customer is certainly moving more and more online.
That's not a new story.
But we have invested properly in that business.
We will talk more in February about what our version which I'd like to think is a little unique to the omni-channel approach that's going to be across our 3 brands and how we've set ourselves up.
And that even though we're making the change to our global structure and making online and outlet and specialty and franchise all part of one leadership team what I said in my opening comments I think one of the benefits of making that change is the speed of decision-making and the move on that strategic front at a faster pace than we're going to see.
So we put one person in charge of all earnings across the brand one amount of capital that that global brand president is going to be.
One thing I know about capital it tends to go to where the biggest opportunity is.
So I think the online business will grow -- continue to grow much stronger than our specialty business.
But I think that even at that delta can even grow over time as we get to this new structure and start putting the infrastructure in place to execute our version of omni-channel long term.
Our value business defined as Banana Republic Factory Store and the Gap Outlet business I think again globally still has a long long way to go and huge opportunity.
So you may have heard us say this before Kimberly but I think our strategy against our global competitor is right.
I think we have a competitive advantage.
I think the customers are moving both aggressively and accepting more and more people going to either power centers value centers as lifestyle centers get transitioned.
Globally again power centers value centers and we have a channel that appeals to that customer to where that growth is same with online and we've obviously been pretty clear about this.
The best return on sales and the best return on capital the company has is on those 2 channels.
So I think that the new global brand presence looking at the brand holistically will move much quicker even though I think we've moved at a decent pace over the last 3 to 4 years.
That's to execute on that strategy.
I think that's going to give the company -- execute it properly will give us nice earnings growth going forward as we change the mix of the business.
Our next question is from Adrienne Tennant with Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> My question is on the inventory units particularly at Old Navy.
It sounds like the build is weighted toward Old Navy.
So I just wanted to know whether there was going to be unit build at Gap and Banana as well? Should we expect the AURs to be down and should we expect a comp acceleration? So are you kind of hitting the AUR so that we would see increased market share gains? Yes I think overall Adrienne we're trying to ground on trying to get Old Navy and the value channels but especially Old Navy back to a normalized -- so we're not really changing our model from history.
It's really that we're comping a year that was unusual in '11.
With that very high average unit cost we pulled out a lot of units because from a total cost inventory perspective we didn't want that ballooning too much.
So this year with that coming down we're actually trying to just reintroduce units to a level which are more comfortable from any historical velocity level that we would see at Old Navy.
Now of course our hope in all of that is to continue as our overall goal is for the company is to continue to positive comp in a manner that has us gaining some market share.
So that is our overall goal.
But we want to do that with healthy margins.
And we think with this average unit costing providing us some nice tailwind we don't need a very large increase in AUR to still give us obviously nice margin expansion.
So that's sort of the formula.
Delivering a nice positive comp is the goal that gives us some market share in a way that also provides very healthy merchandise margins.
Research Division</strong> And AUR should be up is that what you're implying slightly? No no -- I would -- we're not guiding to AUR but I would say reminders are -- I just said in Q3 that it was only up very slightly and we're entering probably our most promotional season of the year.
So we'll see how it turns out.
Our next question is from Janet Kloppenburg with JJK Research.
Sabrina I was wondering if you could talk -- you just mentioned your AUC tailwind.
As I recall the fourth quarter of last year had the steepest level of input price increases.
So I'm wondering if we could look for incrementally higher sourcing reductions here in the fourth quarter and therefore some additional opportunity for gross margin gains.
And Glenn I was -- I'm curious about the timing that you might consider for incremental marketing dollars at Old Navy.
You spent a lot at Gap.
Old Navy has had a nice turnaround and I'm wondering when we might see the marketing start to pick up for that brand.
Yes so I'll start with your gross margin question Janet.
So to be helpful because we don't give explicit guidance on that line but to be helpful definitely it's true that our peak costing last year was at holiday.
The differential between fall and holiday though was that not that enormous.
So I don't want you to think that that's some big differential that we're moving into.
But for sure holiday was the peak.
In -- across Q4 we'll of course complete selling fall mostly holiday and we'll start selling spring.
So there's a mix of seasons there.
All of that said it's true that holiday should have nicer tailwinds on the AUC.
I think what we'll see how it works out is on the AUR because again it's a promotional season.
We have great plans we feel really confident about.
We're going to be in there with our -- especially at Old Navy with a great lineup of promotions.
But we're selling a lot more units.
So that might be a bit of an offset.
So yes on the AUC and we'll see how the AUR turns out.
But margins should be healthy.
And on the marketing front we're actually fairly pleased with the amount of marketing that Old Navy has and we don't see ourselves making any kind of move above where they are right now on a relative basis until when Stefan gets more settled in his job because he's been -- this is month one for him.
And him and Michael Francis and myself spend a little more time together probably early in the new year discussing Old Navy and its creative platform that supports its brand positioning.
And I think more than anything as I've talked to Michael quite a bit over the last 45 days I think Michael what he sees is an opportunity to change the mix of our marketing and maybe get a little more bang for our buck like some other brands out there.
Maybe we're a little too married to our television exposure.
Television and Old Navy go hand and glove.
There's something about that brand about its customers about the audience and how it really resonates.
Hopefully we'll see that as the television kicks in next week for Black Friday and the weekend after Black Friday.
But the creative I think the work that Michael has done since he's been here which is really looking not only about the creative positioning of Old Navy and all the tools and mediums available for us but how do we get more for the money we have.
So still to be determined.
I think the 2 of them are spending lots of time together.
Michael's adding some great value already.
I think early in the new year we'll sit down and figure that out.
Obviously I'm always a big believer that if there's a justification and we're going to get something from it that in this case could be whether it's traffic driving or whether we introduce a new category or there's some other reason I'm sure we're open to it.
What I also will say to you is don't forget Old Navy in 2013 steps up a little bit more globally and we're going to have to start looking at some marketing in the Japan market to make sure that brand gets off to a strong start.
So I'd be more focused on putting some incremental money there than do anything domestically.
Because again worth repeating I'm pretty comfortable with the amount of money they have right now.
Our next question is from John Morris with BMO Capital Markets.
Okay.
So my one question is on International Glenn and a little bit relating to the global restructuring that you've talked about.
You talked in your prepared remarks about taking some corrective measures for next year.
So if you can elaborate a little bit more on what those are and the goals that you're hoping to achieve? What are the yardsticks you'll be measuring and how does that fit in with the global restructuring repositioning? Obviously that would have some impact on that.
I would say that some of corrective measures I referenced -- I'm hoping that some of them will be helpful sooner than 2013.
A big area that's changed.
The first step we took towards global brands was in the spring summer of 2011 with a number of changes we've made in the company structure.
One that gets to the corrective measure comment you just made was to bring one International leader Stephen Sunnucks who is now going to be our Global President for Gap brand and he brought all the International merchant teams together hired an amazing lead who's now going to run the global merchandising for him named Liz Meltzer who has a history at J.Crew and Uniqlo.
And what Liz did and you'll start to see some of that work show up in the market just now in our franchise business in Europe in Japan and in China was really bringing all of that -- all of those teams together under one strong view on assortment architecture and pricing architecture.
Now we weren't so divergent that you wouldn't know it was Gap brand.
I actually in my comments at the beginning what I said was possibly up until this year we are a little more local at the expense of global.
And that's fine.
I was -- I was trying with the other executives in the business we were all sitting back and trying to find out what is that right balance? Clearly with some of the work we've done some of the research some of the customer work we've done around the world the decision through the new structure was put global first and local second.
In keeping with that the work that Liz under Stephen's leadership have put forward is that you will see now a much more consistent approach in our assortment around the world not identical because we are such believers in local opportunities.
What I believe is going to happen now is they will now be able to go instead of an inch deep and a mile long they will be able to go an inch wide and a mile deep on what really differentiates Japan from China from Europe from some of our key franchise markets.
That work is already beginning.
Now we're not going to get a huge benefit in the fourth quarter but I am expecting that some of the changes they've made will be the beginning of some of the course correction action.
That coupled with our pricing I was talking earlier that we've actually pretty good with our initial pricing.
I actually feel in North America we're highly competitive for the customers we're going after against the competitive sets of each one of our brands.
I probably couldn't say that with as much confidence internationally until now.
And I do think that again under the leadership of Stephen and Liz our International business is much more competitive in this fourth quarter and therefore going forward with its pricing architecture.
So those 2 of many actions that have been taken while Stephen led the International business hopefully will start to change the trajectory we've seen in that business for the last I don't know 5 or 6 quarters now.
Our next question is from Evren Kopelman with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit about the profitability in China in that greater region? And maybe the timeline around how we should expect that profitability to improve? Yes we don't segment report that Evren but what I will tell you is that it's a long-term investment.
It has been dilutive but its profile has been improving.
And we expect a nice big step in that improvement for fiscal '12 as we will probably for '13 as well and as they keep adding stores that are doing nicely.
We talked about the fact that doing business in China has its complications and requires more infrastructure than doing business in more developed markets.
But we think it has great potential for our long term.
So we're definitely invested there for the long term and we're making good progress against that dilution.
Our next question comes from Edward Yruma with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> My question as it relates to your global realignment are there other functional pieces of the business that needed to be changed now that you've kind of reorganized at the top of the house and how do we think about expense build as it relates to this infrastructure longer term? Yes no I think that clearly nobody should be making the assumption that the restructuring we made and the repositioning of the brands to a global view is going to add cost to the business.
That's not what the intention behind it was.
As I said earlier we're going to get speed.
One of the big benefits we're going to get is that and a more common approach as we shift to as I said earlier to the global local approach to our business the Gap brand in particular across over 40 countries.
We've actually since 2007 I'd say let's call it to the service functions in the business between finance and HR and real estate and supply chain and IT.
I think the business under Sabrina's leadership have done a great job making a very efficient service model to the brands in place.
And those services were already global.
So the infrastructure on which the brand sits were already global and we're leveraged and we've been doing a great job on that front.
This was a change related to brand level only.
It will sit on the exact same infrastructure we had before of shared services where we've continued to actually get great benefit and efficiency from that.
So this is really a change that I think is customer facing that will get the benefits I talked about earlier.
Now you have 3 significant leaders who run all of our big iconic brands and I think that it's early days.
Those teams don't officially start working together until the new fiscal year but we're confident that we're going to get the outcomes I talked about earlier.
Our next question is from Jennifer Davis with Lazard Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I guess I'll stick with the International theme here and I was just wondering if you could maybe give a little more color Glenn around trends in Europe and Japan by brand.
I think the Old Navy store is doing very well in Japan.
I know it's very early still.
I believe that Gap Outlet and Banana Republic are doing better than full price Gap.
So I guess could you maybe just give a little more color around like I said Europe and Japan and the brands? I think that your assessment is actually pretty much spot on.
Both in Europe and in Japan I'd say our Banana Republic business our online business and our factory store value business is doing quite well.
And not in that order.
Well obviously online businesses which are young in both the 27 countries we serve in Europe.
And as I said earlier Japan just opened a month ago.
But earlier indications of Japan are very positive.
The online business in Europe is very strong.
And look we've been making the same sort of approach that we've had here in the U.S.
Making sure the stores are right.
Focusing on key cities in Europe.
Making sure we're investing and remodeling the stores that make sense and we're going to hold on to long term.
And as the customer starts to return and I would not say in Europe we're seeing any signs of that just yet.
There's some numbers just came out in the U.K.
And once again the customer apparel numbers were soft in the U.K.
for October.
So there's no -- there's no great sign right now in Europe.
You saw H&amp;M's numbers that came out today.
So we don't have a large business there.
We have an important business.
We're keeping it tight.
We're investing in our value sector and online and that's it for now until we see signs of real improvement inside of Europe.
In Japan where the consumer is slightly better our Old Navy business as you said is 1 store only.
We'll comment in February about how many stores we're going to open for Old Navy in 2013.
But we feel very good about the first store.
Online I think will be an amazing add-on to the bricks business we have right now.
And there again it's Gap specialty.
The team is on it.
I was answering John's question earlier I think some of the work that Liz Meltzer has brought to the business early indications will be in 2013 about how that change -- those corrective measures are going to take place.
A little bit in the fourth quarter but I think we've taken a lot of steps to get our International business performing at a higher level for Gap specialty.
That's certainly not been an area we've been pleased about.
But I think the team we have confidence in and they're going to take some of those ideas now.
They're going to go into the brands and I believe the brands will execute that strategy and find even more ways to make sure that our International business performs better in 2013 on a top line basis than we've experienced so far in 2012.
But more to come on that front.
Our next question is from Randy Konik with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Glenn could you just talk about -- you mentioned some of the process changes and systems changes can you expand upon that a little bit for long-term sustainability of improvement in the business? And then if you could you said something with regards to Stefan talking about how to be best-in-class or what have you.
So can you just if you could give us your thoughts on what he said were opportunities in the Old Navy business for us? Look I think that what I was saying on the inventory management one you've got a few new people particularly at Old Navy who've come into the business and I think they've been instrumental in making some process changes that we wish we probably would've undertaken some of those in 2011.
But again in fairness 2011 was a very difficult year for our inventory management team with this change in -- of this paradigm shift of average unit cost to inventory units that they bought.
Having said that I really think that the process changes I'm seeing driven at Old Navy but some of this applies to Gap specialty and Gap Outlet Banana Republic Factory Store and Banana Republic specialty business that the inventory teams I think are doing a much better job in 2012 and I'm actually feeling that any system investments -- and look everybody is always putting some kind of money to their inventory management system.
I think that we're just making sure those teams have all the right tools.
But as we look and we'll talk more about this in the new year as we look at our business because right now we've been talking about how inventory can be viewed more seamless from a customer perspective between channels.
So we've been doing a little bit of that work right now on our ship-from-store strategy which allows us to take product that is in demand online and ship it from one of our stores.
So we've done a lot of work on that front.
We'll talk more about that in the new year.
But I think one of the next moves even though there's been some small investments that have been helpful in 2012.
The big shift for us is how do start treating our inventory that's seamless to a customer across channels of online and specialty and across geographies most importantly.
I think that's going to be critical looking forward for a business like ours.
And there's a lot of value to be created by doing that.
And Stefan look it's 30 days.
I just think that we didn't hire him to come in and just oversee the status quo.
We brought him into the business because we believe his experience which is phenomenal and his view of retailing whose knowledge of specialty retail and of fashion in particular.
His work he has done on processes and making sure that company's like ours learn to move faster because that's really going to be important going forward.
The customer is moving fast therefore we have to respond by moving equally as fast.
I think that early days but I'm just impressed with some of the observations that he's making and I'm sure as shareholders and investors on the phone turn to 2013 there'll be an opportunity for everybody to meet him.
And I'm sure he'll be happy to share some of his observations what he thinks is great about Old Navy which obviously that includes a lot about the brand and its positioning.
But what are some of the opportunities that he thinks he's going to put into place and what speed to create incremental value for shareholders.
Our next question is from Brian Tunick with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Glenn just curious about your view where we are I guess in the real estate portfolio side of the business? Sort of where are we regarding sort of remodels store closings footage reduction and sort of which brand or 2 do you still think has the best opportunity for productivity recapture as you start -- try to think about getting beyond last year or 2's operating margins? I just -- with David Zoba today who runs our global real estate and he's been pretty consistent about this.
We're thinking we'll end this year on our domestic real estate strategy.
I'll come back to Europe in a second.
But our domestic real estate strategy will end this year in the 7 or 8 inning of the plan we outlined to investors in 2008 so I think -- hats off to our real estate team who have done a phenomenal job.
So by the end of '13 I think when you look at square footage reductions at Old Navy I think we'll pretty much be there.
We look at Gap closures pure closures and then consolidations I think we'll pretty much be there.
Banana Republic was never a big change but there's some changes that were necessary in Jack Calhoun's fleet.
Those are for the most part done.
And I think that the move now domestically is to look at these missed opportunities for the Gap Outlet business and the factory store business.
We just opened up a store in Fulton Street in New York City where the specialty business would not get the kind of customer traffic it needs given its value proposition.
We put in a Gap Factory Store there and it's doing phenomenally well.
So I think that as we've tightened up the real estate for all the right reasons there's a few opportunities still available for us domestically.
And when Katrina was giving out or maybe when Sabrina was giving out the net number of stores in the quarter I always think about this is a year where we're going to open close to 200 stores.
But we have a lot of closures this year because this was a very big year for us for closures.
We have one more year to go of repositioning in 2013 and meaningful number of closures probably not as high as '12 but we'll give you that information in February in 2013.
And then we'll be able to be in a place where we're not operating like we had the last 4 years with quite a few closures per year that dragged down the company's total sales.
So I think that good performance by the real estate team -- I'll deal with 2 issues that you brought up at the end.
Remodels we're still very happy with the remodel work at Old Navy.
I'm sure Stefan will have a point of view on that but we've been very happy at the work that's been done.
We've been very happy with the Gap global model.
We just opened on 34 Street in New York just reopened beautiful store doing very well.
So very happy with how that store looks and how it's coming across.
I think Jack Calhoun has continued to tweak the remodel prototype for Banana Republic.
So I think that it's good but I think he is tweaking it.
So I think we feel good about our models.
Athleta obviously is very strong.
And lastly if I was to say there was one area where productivity is the hugest -- sorry is the most significant opportunity for us on productivity that would be at Gap brand specialty.
All our brands have an opportunity on productivity but Gap brand specialty with a repositioned fleet now in terms of number of stores and square footage I got to believe Mark Breitbard is looking at that and going that's the biggest opportunity for him is to get better productivity in his new fleet.
Our final question for today will come from the line of Oliver Chen with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Regarding the average unit cost dynamic fourth quarter sounds like that's the optimal peaking event.
How should we think about the evolution of that? And how do you prioritize what's going to be the biggest positives for gross margin after you kind of wind down the average unit cost benefit? We're going to talk more about '13 on the Q4 call Oliver.
But obviously we'll start to lap sometime in '13 really good costing.
So we still have lots of great sourcing strategies ahead of us.
So we're never done looking for opportunities to get optimal costing using fabric platforming our new category management.
So we have lots of tools within sourcing to keep optimizing costing.
But certainly we're not going to have the magnitude of tailwind that we've been experiencing this year.
We obviously are focused on great assortments.
So part of the sustainability of moving forward with our positive comps which is our objective is going to be to keep making investments in those smart areas where we think we can get the average unit retail for it.
So we keep those healthy margins.
But mostly it's going to be a continuation of healthy product acceptance and modestly introducing more unit sales once we've achieved that healthy merchandise margin so we're growing our gross margin.
So that's going to be the recipe going forward into '13 and we'll give more details as we enter that year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I may as a follow-up what is your thoughts around your parameters for making a decision for investment in the future versus harvesting returns on the fixed cost side? What exactly -- you want to restate that maybe I'm not sure...
Research Division</strong> Just how are you thinking about going forward this year you're deleveraging in terms of the infrastructure investments...
Yes got it I think.
Absolutely next year I mean this year was an important year for us to take some steps in reinvesting and I think we we're prudent about where we took those measures especially with regard to the pockets of product we reinvested in and the marketing investments.
Now that we'll be anniversary-ing those and we're definitely looking for return on those investments we will be looking in '13 to go back to a more traditional economic model where we should be leveraging our expenses.
So that doesn't mean that nominally the expenses would go down as we grow our sales.
You might expect us to go up obviously but we would look to return to a more balanced economic model where the expenses are leveraging.
I'd like to thank everyone for joining us on the call today.
As a reminder our earnings press release which is available on gapinc.com contains a full recap of our third quarter results as well as the forward-looking guidance included in Sabrina's remarks.
And as always the Investor Relations team will be available after the call for further questions.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's Gap Inc.
Third Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
My name is Melanie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Gap Inc.
Fourth Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to introduce your host Katrina O'Connell Vice President of Investor Relations.
Good afternoon everyone.
Welcome to Gap Inc.'s Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
For those of you participating in the webcast please turn to Slides 2 and 3.
I'd like to remind you that the information made available on this webcast and conference call contains forward-looking statements.
For information on factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements as well as reconciliations of measures we are required to reconcile to GAAP financial measures please refer to today's press release as well as our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and our most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q all of which are available on gapinc.com.
These forward-looking statements are based on information as of February 28 2013 and we assume no obligation to publicly update or revise our forward-looking statements.
Joining us on the call today are Chairman and CEO Glenn Murphy; and Executive Vice President and CFO Sabrina Simmons.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Glenn.
Thank you Katrina and welcome everybody to the company's fourth quarter earnings call.
I want to talk a little bit about the fourth quarter and give you some color around it.
I think it's important when you end a fiscal year for you to hear what I think were the accomplishments for Gap Inc.
in 2012.
So in the fourth quarter we were pleased with our sales.
Five comp 10% total sales.
Yes the 53rd week was in that.
But at the end of the day when you back that out we had a market share gaining quarter and that's what's important to me not only for us to have good execution to gain customers put the product in front of customers that is right for each one of our brands but to go out and actually gain market share.
One of the areas that's worth highlighting is our online business was up 28% and that was a very good performance by as everybody knows a critical part of the company's long-term growth strategy.
We had a $0.73 in earnings per share and that was a 66% increase over the year before.
So on the surface those are very good-looking numbers for Gap Inc.
With that said we believe there's a lot more business to be had for us in December.
When I look at the business and dissect it and spend time with the teams after the holidays we still have quite a bit of opportunity available to us and value to unlock between Thanksgiving and Christmas.
Now the consumer patterns are really shifting and you have this big amount of business being done around Thanksgiving and Black Friday and a lot of business being done the last 3 days before Christmas.
We got to figure out the 3 weeks in between.
Now we have an opportunity to do that because we have multiple brands.
Because we can play the online channel the outlet channel the specialty channel differently to make sure we capture as much business as possible and unlock as much earnings as we can possibly get in that 4-week period.
The last thing I should mention about Q4 is the acquisition of Intermix.
That's something we were just very pleased with.
We love that business.
There's a lot of a lot of talented people at Intermix.
We're going to help them when it comes to their integration strategy what could be their long-term growth.
Early days but we feel even better about the decision we made today than we did 6 weeks ago.
Now let me turn to 2012.
And from my perspective what were the key accomplishments for Gap Inc.
in the last fiscal year? It starts for me and ends with product.
I've been very pleased with our merchant teams our design teams and how they brought product to life that's absolutely right on what the brand stands for the customers they need to gain the aesthetic and consistently doing that season after season.
Part of that were the investments we made.
Again they were targeted.
They were in key categories.
Where can we make an investment that a customer is going to notice and is done in a category that is so quintessentially associated with that brand that we know we can build a business from? And we added our creative advisor role which was new for us to make sure that our teams were given every single chance and as much talent as they needed to be successful.
We married that up with an investment in marketing.
And the marketing investment was mostly in Gap brand.
It was mostly made domestically.
And that was all about getting the brand back to relevance getting people to see the incredible equity in this iconic American casual business.
And the Be Bright campaign was launched 12 months ago.
It's been a very good platform for the business.
One of the key focuses and where some of the investment went for Gap brand was to get new customers in their stores and on online.
And the way they use social media some of the unique relationships and partnerships that Gap had I think was a big contributor to their performance in 2012.
China continues to do very well for us.
We opened up 30 stores in China in 2012.
We've brought the outlet business into China.
So now in China we have our specialty business; our online business that opened up day 1 when our stores opened; and the outlet business.
What I've been really impressed was the team we built from basically nothing 2.5 years ago.
We have an office in Shanghai of talented people a mixture of people who know Gap who decided to relocate to Shanghai and some incredible people that we've hired locally.
That team is building a business for the future.
China is a cornerstone of future growth for Gap Inc.
Our awareness in China continues to grow part of that is the stores a big part is the marketing we're putting behind that business.
If you don't build a brand in China you are not going to make it.
Too many new entrants too much competition and if you put the right marketing and stand for something and differentiate yourself you're going to have a long term successful profitable business.
We put some new growth irons in the fire in 2012.
We opened up our first Piperlime store in SoHo to try to find the right marriage between that online business which is digital and the physical expression of Piperlime.
We launched e-commerce in Japan across Gap brand and Banana Republic and one of the biggest accomplishments of the year for us was taking Old Navy outside of its domestic domain where it's been in for almost 20 years and taking it on to the International stage by opening our first store up in Tokyo.
And the team did an incredible job.
The customer response has been great because what's missing for so many customers in Tokyo was this family brand based on American aesthetic with a value proposition.
And I think that combination has resonated very well.
And I'll talk about 2013 later on.
Let me give you the update on our existing growth initiatives.
And you all know them our franchise business went into 9 new countries opened up 85 stores.
Our outlet business that is now a global business had the most store openings they've had in the last 5 years.
Our Athleta division added 25 brand new stores and our online business just continued to grow globally.
So when you think about it we're doing the right thing for customers.
We're bringing new customers into the Gap Inc.
portfolio and family of brands with Athleta.
We're using our channels to provide access to our customers online outlet and specialty.
On the other side of the coin moving these businesses so they become a bigger and bigger part of our total revenue is great for return on capital.
So this is strategically the right balance between what's right for the customer and what's right for our economic model.
And lastly in October we completely restructured our business.
We felt very strongly the customer is changing the customer is looking for a seamless experience.
They see everything we do as one single brand.
So in order to make sure that our structure and our strategies match up to where customers are and where customers -- more importantly where they're going we went to a new structure of global brands.
Three global brand presidents across every geography and every channel leading our iconic brands: Gap Old Navy and Banana Republic.
That was such an important change.
That was a critical part so it introduced speed into the company.
Looking at a single customer through 1 lens and what is the right way to get more share of wallet from that customer when you have all these different choices? And one single team can do that for us.
And here we find ourselves in the first month of the first quarter of a brand new fiscal year.
And we've been spending a lot of time talking to our teams about where is the customer today? Where is the economy? That's important for us.
Because now with a new global platform we have choices.
Where do we think that the biggest potential is for us? And the consumer at the end of the day we are looking at the consumer and saying we have to continue to give her reasons to buy more excitement.
Just think of some examples last year.
When we launched the Rockstar jeans at Old Navy.
That was provocative.
That gave her her reason to buy.
When Gap came on the fall with our marketing campaign called Icons Redefined that gave her her reason to buy.
If you're going to win in this environment doing the same thing all over again is not a winning strategy.
We have to bring more and more uniqueness differentiation and excitement to the business.
So beyond that some big priorities for us as we look forward one is the growth.
As we look at our company.
We're looking at Old Navy Japan let's put 15 or 20 stores in there in 2013.
Build on that 1 successful store and then I'm asking the team led by Stefan Larsson where to from here? Not this year going forward? We're going to answer that question this year.
China.
We're going to open up 35 stores in China in 2013.
At the same time we're going to ask ourself the question: what's the next brand going into China? When? How are we going to put those in the China marketplace? How's the team going to operate that? We're going to have those answers done this year.
The franchise business is going to add around 75 stores building on a very good year last year.
More global outlet growth more online growth.
And Athleta is going to add around 30 stores.
It's a step up from previous years.
If you look at the company in the last 5 years this is the most new square footage we put in since 2007.
As a matter of fact we're going to grow square footage for the first time since 2007.
And the driver of that is what I just took you through but also this is the last year of our 5-year real estate plan.
Five-year real estate plan was put forward in 2008 to do what? To cut back on domestic square footage through closures consolidations and getting rid of square footage where we just did not need.
This is the last year.
So here we come now in 2013 with the most openings much more thoughtful we're going to have less closures in 2014 as we complete the 5-year strategy this year.
So I'm pretty excited as you could tell about what the future holds for us when it comes to new square footage and the other area of focus for me is Omni-channel.
You're going to hear a lot about that from a lot of other companies here's all I care about: Can we get a competitive advantage? There's probably 5 or 6 components to it and just everybody's going to get that over the next 3 years.
What are we going to do different? And I really am just highly motivated by Art Peck who took over our growth innovation and digital team with the restructure we made in the fall and the ideas they're coming forward with the talent they've brought in and how we're going to approach the marketplace so the customer participates in the brands seamlessly.
That's so important.
Seamless experience.
We have some really good ideas that are going to be launched in 2013 which we'll talk about down the road.
We have to have this to win long term.
Now those 2 key initiatives the work on Omni-channel and the step-up in our growth and that sits on top of a foundation of steady growth with consistency in our product delivery marketing store execution.
All those components that allow the foundation of the business to positively comp in 2013 as it did in 2012.
So with that said we know that our customers have expectations of us and our shareholders have expectations of Gap Inc.
in 2013.
Nobody puts more pressure on themselves than we do as a company.
We really were proud of what we did in 2012.
We know we could do more.
We know we have to do more.
We know we have to make sure a lot of things that I talked to you about today get executed flawlessly.
We know where it starts with product and we know we have to be very good at some of the other initiatives and innovation we need to have in the business in order for us to win.
So with that said I look forward to giving your updates throughout the year on our performance and how we're moving forward in the strategic plan.
Let me now hand it over to Sabrina to give you an update on our financial performance for '12 and to provide you guidance for 2013.
Sabrina? Thank you Glenn.
Good afternoon everyone.
I'll begin today with a review of our fourth quarter and full-year results and then provide an overview of our outlook for 2013.
Please turn to Slide 4.
We are very pleased with both our fourth quarter and full-year performance.
We achieved our stated 2012 objectives namely increasing sales with healthy merchandise margins; prudently investing in our business; and growing earnings per share.
Here are some highlights for the full year: Net sales grew 8% to $15.7 billion with comps up 5%.
We invested in product marketing and payroll which drove successful results in North America.
In addition we made investments to support our strategy of expanding through new channels and geographies.
Even with these investments we expanded our operating margin 250 basis points to 12.4%.
We delivered earnings of over $1.1 billion and grew earnings per share nearly 50% to $2.33.
And finally we distributed $1.3 billion of cash to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.
Please turn to Slide 5 for our earnings recap.
In the fourth quarter operating income was $602 million up $230 million and net income was $351 million up $133 million.
Fourth quarter earnings per share increased 66% to $0.73 per share.
Turning to Slide 6.
Sales performance.
Driven by solid product acceptance fourth quarter total sales were $4.7 billion up 10% including the 53rd week with comp sales up 5%.
Full-year total sales were up 8% to $15.7 billion and comparable sales were up 5% for the year.
Total sales and comps by division are listed in our press release.
Turning to Slide 7 gross profit.
For the fourth quarter gross profit dollars grew by 26% to $1.8 billion and gross margin was up 480 basis points to 37.6%.
Our merchandise margins were up 370 basis points driven by decreases in average unit cost.
And rent and occupancy leveraged 110 basis points.
For the full year gross profit dollars grew by 17% to $6.2 billion and gross margin was up 320 basis points to 39.4%.
Our merchandise margins were up 200 basis points driven by improved product acceptance especially in the Women's businesses across all of our brands.
Rent and occupancy leveraged 120 basis points.
Turning to inventory on Slide 8.
Inventory dollars per store were up 5% at the end of the fourth quarter in line with our comp performance.
Please turn to Slide 9 for operating expenses.
We noted throughout the year that we plan to invest more in our business during 2012 and highlighted that we would deleverage.
In line with that framework for the fourth quarter total operating expenses are $1.2 billion up $141 million from the prior-year driven by store-related expenses and marketing.
As a percent of sales total operating expenses deleveraged by 70 basis points.
For the full-year total operating expenses were $4.2 billion up $393 million from the prior year and deleveraged as a percent to sales by 60 basis points.
Marketing expenses were $653 million up $105 million to last year.
As a reminder our incremental marketing investments for the year were focused on Gap brand and CRM.
Please turn to Slide 10 for capital expenditures and store count.
For the full year capital expenditures were $659 million.
With regard to company-operated stores for the full year we opened 28 stores on a net basis and ended the year with 3 095 stores.
Square footage was down 1% compared to Q4 2011 driven by downsizes in our Old Navy business and consolidation of our Gap store base in North America.
Store count and square footage by division are listed in our press release.
Regarding cash and share count on Slide 11.
For the full-year free cash flow was an inflow of $1.3 billion and we ended the year with about $1.5 billion in cash and short-term investments.
Two noteworthy points regarding our use of cash during the year: First you'll recall we repaid the remaining balance on our term loan in Q3 for $360 million.
Second we acquired Intermix for about $130 million in Q4.
For the full year we distributed $1.3 billion through share repurchases and dividends including $563 million on share repurchases in the fourth quarter.
We ended the year with 463 million shares outstanding.
And now I'd like to share our outlook for the coming year.
Please turn to Slide 12.
In 2013 we will use a balanced approach to deliver on our financial goals.
Specifically we'll focus on: growing sales with healthy merchandise margins managing our expenses in a disciplined manner and delivering operating margin expansion and earnings per share growth.
And as always we remain committed to returning excess cash to shareholders.
With regards to growing sales with healthy merchandise margins our objective is to deliver modest positive comps on a full-year basis in our large existing base.
In addition to our comp base we plan to drive increased revenue through our new brands channels and geographies for example Athleta Gap China Old Navy Japan franchise and global outlets.
We remain committed to disciplined inventory management and expect inventory dollars per store at the end of Q1 to increase in the mid-single-digits on last year's 7% decrease.
Our second priority is managing our expenses prudently.
Assuming we achieve our goal of revenue growth we would naturally expect total expense dollars to increase.
As a rate of sales however we expect operating expenses on a full-year basis to leverage.
Given our balanced approach to delivering shareholder value expense leverage will be a component of achieving operating margin expansion.
And that leads to our third priority of operating margin expansion and earnings per share growth.
We expect to grow operating margin from about 12% in 2012 to about 13% in 2013.
We expect earnings per share for fiscal '13 to be in the range of $2.52 to $2.60.
Our guidance contemplates some of the impact of foreign currency headwinds specifically the weakening yen.
As a reminder we operate wholly owned stores in 8 countries and are therefore subject to the economic and translation impact of foreign currency movements.
To be helpful the average rate in 2012 for the yen was about 80.
Current spot rate for the yen has weakened by about 15% which means our yen-based sales and earnings translate to fewer U.S.
dollars.
When we issue our 10-K in a few weeks we expect to report sales in Asia of about $1.3 billion.
The vast majority being yen-based sales.
Although contemplating currency fluctuation is not new to how we set our guidance we're calling out the impact this year due to the rapidity and magnitude of the recent move of the yen versus the dollar while other currencies have remained much more stable.
Regarding returning excess cash to shareholders.
As evidence of our commitment to this principle over the past 3 years we have repurchased about 240 million shares for about $5 billion or at an average price of about $21 per share.
In addition to share repurchases we're increasing our dividend for the fourth consecutive year.
In 2013 we intend to increase our dividend 20% to $0.60 per share.
As a reminder we also announced a new $1 billion share repurchase authorization in January.
Please turn to Slide 13 for some additional full-year metrics.
Regarding company-operated stores net of repositions we plan to open about 160 and close about 80.
Store openings are weighted towards Gap China Old Navy Japan Athleta and global outlets while store closures are weighted towards Gap North America.
As we continue to optimize our North America fleet and build on our strategy of expanding through new channels and geographies we expect square footage to increase by about 1%.
This is the first time since 2007 that we're growing our square footage.
We expect capital expenditures to be about $675 million and depreciation and amortization to be about $475 million.
And finally we expect our full-year effective tax rate to be about 39%.
In conclusion we're pleased with how we executed against all of our 2012 objectives.
As we enter 2013 we're focused on a balanced approach to achieving our financial goals and driving further value for our shareholders.
Thank you.
And now I'll turn it over to Katrina.
Thanks Sabrina.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We'll now open up the call to questions [Operator Instructions].
We'll take our first question from Betty Chen with Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering Glenn if you can talk a little bit about brand building.
Certainly it sounds like the team made a lot of effort and progress in 2012.
If you can kind of run us through where each brand stands in your mind in terms of how much additional opportunity is left both domestically and especially you talked about how important it is to build that in China.
Where do you think they've sort of made progress in that front and how does that relate into sort of what we should expect for marketing expenses in 2013? Betty I'll answer the first part of it.
Then I'll hand it over to Sabrina on the second part.
There's 2 parts from our perspective when it comes to the reasons why we spend marketing at all.
So there's always a fixed part of marketing inside of our budget in our store signage windows then there's a variable component which are choices we make that we expect a return from.
I'd say there's no need for any marketing domestically on awareness whereas in China most of our marketing and the tactics and the tools we're using are all about driving awareness.
So in the U.S.
and let me just focus around Gap I think we started to gain some confidence about 18 months ago on New York City and the creative center what the team was putting together how we thought product was going to come to life in spring 2011.
We brought a brand-new CMO in who's going to be in charge of the globe.
He developed a very good platform and that's the reason we decided to put some money almost exclusively in our domestic Gap business.
While awareness has really not moved in I don't know how far back but certainly since I've been here the issue was about relevance and building equity and being much more current to the customers that we were targeting on our domestic business.
So from my Scorecard there's no such thing as the perfect outcome when it came to the marketing being invested but we felt good with what the Gap team did.
We felt it was again the platform was authentic.
It was appropriate for the brand.
I think that as I said in my opening comments the choice of media was also I think smartly done finding the right mix.
Not everybody should run towards social media.
Some of those tools don't really have a great return right now but there was a great balance in how the team approached it.
And in China which I spent a lot of time in I'd say the awareness I've been very impressed.
We have in China a balance between the global marketing that comes out of New York and gets used by the team in China and we have a unique agency we use in China to speak and to augment the message and to build the brand especially when you're opening stores as we did last year in 5 new markets.
So you can never assume that -- because we know where our awareness is coming in and that we choose different marketing content to go into these new markets we're going into and make sure people know A we're American.
What does Gap stand for? And why you should embrace the brand? These are stories and marketing messaging has nothing to do with the value proposition and has everything to do with the brand.
As I said at the opening that's what long-term success as far as we're concerned in China is going to look like it's all about brand-building.
So we've actually again felt good in 2012.
Was it perfect? No.
Are we encouraged by the progress on the scores we look at? Yes.
And we're going to continue to spend some marketing in 2013 but obviously nowhere near the step up we talked about in 2012.
Yes and just to add to that we don't specifically guide to marketing spend and we do that purposefully because we like to keep flexibility throughout the year as to monitoring the marketing effectiveness and actually making decisions about how much we want to invest given business environment.
So not a lot to say on the full year.
To be helpful on the first quarter what I'll tell you is we have no plans to cut marketing expense versus last year for the first quarter.
We will take our next question from Kimberly Greenberger with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Glenn I was wondering if you could just talk about how you managed through the -- balancing the need to improve product execution and come up with some of those big ideas that you were talking about on the merchandising side? How do you sort of balance that while managing the risk in the business? And what sort of management tools do the merchants and the designers have at their disposal to manage that as well? Well I think you know that our business is not based on perfection.
It's based on precision.
It's based on history.
It's based on talent.
Trust me we have more than enough tools which I'm not going to take you through Kimberly but we have more than enough tools that the team can measure in hindsight in market to get a sense the decisions that we were making.
The most important thing for me that the team has developed over the last couple of years which we never had before was to get a very early read at the beginning of a season from product that goes online which tends to go on first before our product gets in the store.
And we used to look at that result and use it more to cheer the accomplishments we had in that given season.
And the last couple of years we use it to read very quickly what is -- what are we learning from that online and how do we affect the upcoming season or how do we affect product in that season that's going to last longer than 12 weeks? So -- and this is not again -- this is not a revolutionary move for us but our ability [indiscernible] -- for us to chase into good ideas and to make sure the merchants because the design team has done their job now the merchants and the inventory management team and the sourcing team and the supply chain team are working in tandem.
We've redesigned that whole process whereby the minute the read comes out and we see an opportunity we can move on that very quickly which really accomplishes one of the goals that Sabrina and I have been working on since we started together which was to reduce some of the volatility in the business.
So I'd say that is the most important thing that I've seen.
Now to I'd say bigger ideas I think that is a risk-reducing strategy because we've been tightening up our assortment slowly and thoughtfully across all our brands for the last couple of years.
We're never going to become just a straight item business.
Collections matter wardrobing matters.
But looking at the total assortment I think the team has recognized that in some cases in categories that matter to us less is more.
And I think that does reduce the risk.
I mean I've always internally said to our inventory management team even though I could be their biggest critic when I defend them it's like it's very difficult to do a job if somebody's buying 24 of something when the customer only really wants 12 or 15.
And you can have a huge big idea on 12 or 15 colors of a skimmer bottom that launches in the spring and that could still be very big event a big idea can drive traffic and be brand right and create some excitement around the business and the incremental 8 or 10 colors really don't drive any gross margin dollars for the business.
So in some ways the focus that each one of our brands is taking to different levels across different categories I think provides a little bit of de-risking of the assortment.
We'll take our next question from Janet Kloppenburg with JJK Research.
I had a question.
I'm excited about your announced expansion plans and about the fact that your store closing program is going to conclude this year at least that's my understanding.
And I'm wondering then if we should look for -- I think we should look for the differentiating point between sales and total sales and comps to begin to widen.
And I'm wondering if in fiscal '14 if we could look for that differential to become even broader as the store closing program becomes much smaller.
Just so that we could model out our sales.
And if you could touch on your opportunity for AUC opportunity this year that would be helpful as well.
Well I would say Janet that that's certainly directionally correct.
We -- we've been working on the total growth of the business and it starts with a very strong base.
And that's what's most important to us that's where our volume is.
So let's call that domestic business -- domestic stores within the domestic brands including some Europe including Japan that make up our comp pool.
So this year having done a 5 comp which the business felt good about I think that was not only gain market share from a comp perspective but I think that's sort of the health of the business now.
We have 1 more what I'd say big year which is 2013.
There's always going to be in a fleet of 3 200 to 3 300 stores.
I'm just throwing a number out.
There's always going to be 30 40 50 stores that you've got to reposition or close because the consumer is going to dictate that.
But at the end of the day are massive change and it's really significant what we've done in the last 8 years -- sorry the last 5 years starting 2008 with 1 more year to ago.
But what that's going to help is that our spread which is what you're referring to the delta between our comp store sales and our total store sales there's been a drag on that spread with the fairly sizable number of closures we've had inside the business mostly at Gap brand.
But there's been some sprinkled across different parts of the world as well.
But I think it is one of our goals it's not the most important goal in the business but we look at some of our global competitors in 2012 who also had a 5 comp and in some cases they had as double-digit total sales.
So do we think this year's number which was 3 but in fairness was helped by the 53rd week do we think that number should widen over time as the real estate program comes to an end? Do we get to just normalize the amount of closing and consolidations and then the new store program picked up now we have 6 brands to choose from obviously the first 3 mattered the most.
I think that's absolutely a goal.
And one question that I answered at the last call was what I'm most excited about that with the new economic model that Sabrina and I put together is that those incremental stores come at a much better contribution to our operating margin than the last time we went through this where we were putting the third or fourth store in the United States in a market that we since had to go and close that store where the market only dictated 2 stores.
So now as you start adding Athleta that's all pure raw new contribution and I think will be good to operating margin over time same with Athleta same with our franchise business and same with our outlet business.
So those are all great -- that incremental dollar hits our P&amp;L in a way that's much more accretive to the overall business over time than it would've been the last time we tried to grow our fleet which was call it 2002 to 2007.
And the only thing I'd add to what Glenn said is that's all absolutely true sort of assuming currencies hold constant.
So for example in 2013 the point we were trying to make is obviously that's spread between comp because comp is FX neutral.
The spread between comp and total sales will be impacted by the foreign currency headwind in Japan.
So that's just something to watch.
And then with regards to the AUC opportunity I would say for '13 Janet I mean Q1 is the last quarter where in 2012 we were still facing headwinds.
So we have a little bit of benefit there in Q1.
After that I would say it's sort of normalized it becomes sort of a nonissue.
And we're just sort of going to manage through [ph] and without the big swings up or the big swings down that we had in '11 and '12.
We'll go next to John Morris with BMO Capital Markets.
Glenn can you talk a little bit about the progress that you're making at Old Navy under the new team? What can customers expect to see differently this year because I think we'll see more from the new Old team what will they expect to see differently compared to the old Old Navy? How will the point of view in terms of the product et cetera evolve? I think the first thing John that's worth noting is that Stefan has been here just under 6 months and when we brought him in it's because he believed in the brand and most importantly the brand positioning which was a nonnegotiable and the customers that Old Navy goes after.
Mostly that it's a family brand.
And we didn't want to have to revisit the notion that people can come in and put their own impression on the brand.
The brand is what it is.
Stefan has come in to improve it and evolve the brand.
And I would say what customers are going to see is even before Stefan was involved the team that was there previously I'm willing to say that they were making improvements in this first quarter in terms of product assortment that was better than the quarter before in 2012.
Now it's our job to translate that into greater sales and greater earnings but they were already making improvements.
I'd say he's going to have 2 impacts that should be noticeable to our customer.
I think he's been working vigorously with the team on the assortment.
And a little less -- like what I said to Kimberly a little less about tightening it up although I'm sure that's going to be one of the outcomes.
I'd say that he's very big on building dominant categories.
I think he's helping with the fashion part of the business that is right for Old Navy because this is not a fast fashion business.
But making sure we get credit for the fashion that's in Old Navy.
Because at the end of the day what we provide is everyday fashion essentials to the family.
And I think he is really driving that point home and he's bringing some discipline into the assortment planning.
And that's something he's very skilled at.
The other side is that we were very excited this week that Ivan Wicksteed joined us who's our new CMO.
And I don't think his impact will be felt immediately but we brought him in given the incredible track record and experience he's had.
And I think our customers will start to enjoy his handprint on the marketing messaging in the business in fall and holiday.
And I've just been very happy with how he's come in to the team working with our merchant team and working with the design team and all under Stefan.
So Stefan didn't come in to turn the brand upside down.
He came in to move the brand at a pace that I'm comfortable with.
Let there be no doubt he's come in to improve the business.
That is what he's asked to do.
Glenn are you close to releasing some of the marketing dollars for Old Navy as well? I know you were thinking about that as recently as the previous quarter.
They've got all the marketing dollars any brand would ever need.
We will go next to Lorraine Hutchinson with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> The SG&amp;A has been very tightly managed for years.
I know you spent a little bit in 2012.
But -- as we look out over the longer term are there any big investments that we should be thinking about whether it's e-commerce or Omni-channel or any of the other new programs or plans that you're expecting? Yes.
I mean we're focused just on our 2013 guidance right now Lorraine and we can talk probably more about the longer-term at Analyst Day.
But I would say that we're being very measured about the pace of our investments.
So you have observed that we've raised capital spend from probably an average of $475 million $500 million per year up to -- we spent over $650 million in '12 we just guided to $675 million.
So we are definitely focused on the long term and in propelling the long-term growth and then in making the right investments and putting the dollar behind that.
But beyond what we've guided to there's nothing radical that we intend to shift.
Within those dollars we've guided to we feel really comfortable that we've appropriated enough to those strategically important projects like Omni-channel like Gap China like Old Navy Japan.
I think we're learning and teaching the business very well that in some cases there's a lot of initiatives or variable expense we're using in different areas of the business that we either can't afford or is not necessary anymore.
So brick in brick out in terms of state of mind is something that's very important in our business and now Sabrina mentioned China.
For us to have a really long-term viable business in China there's some money we do have to invest whether it's in people or whether it's in marketing.
And we're challenging the teams internally especially the new 3 global presidents to look at their portfolio because we're going to hold them to a certain level of return and expectations on return on sales and return on capital.
So I think what I like about the new structure it gives them a chance to look at where the most -- the best opportunities globally where they should be investing their time and their energy and their capital to get the highest return.
But we will always have new initiatives.
If we're not innovating and bringing new initiatives forward the company's just going to go backwards.
So we're pushing the team really hard on both fronts but we're telling them very clearly as they work the one side of the growth story they have to go back into their P&amp;L aggressively and carve out money that's no longer needed and it's -- or is not getting a return.
That's how we're trying to -- that's how the 2 of us are trying to manage the business.
We'll go next to Adrienne Tennant with Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Glenn can you talk about the DTC opportunity? Obviously looks like it's about 12% for 2012.
Sort of philosophically how do you think that that's evolving across the sector? How aggressively do you want to grow that piece of the business as a percent of sales and do you have any targets in mind for us? Well we don't -- we don't put out targets.
We certainly have some numbers internally.
What I would say is I would sort of take it up a notch and say if we just look at the customer first where we're moving and how it moved a little bit in 2012 we'll take a bigger step in 2013 as there's this is notion of easy buy anywhere.
And at the end of the day to be quite honest with you I don't care where that unit goes.
The unit is going to go where we can -- where the customer wants it and we can get the highest return on that one unit.
If that's online if that's specialty if that's International.
And I think that our online business is obviously growing that's a channel of choice.
We've been working very hard to make sure that our website is attractive that it's fast and that our delivery time to the consumer that we over exceed their expectations.
So I look at the end [ph] what's going to happen here is the customer will eventually dictate whether 12 goes to 15 whether 12 goes to 18.
Where it settles out.
We're not going to stop it we're not going to put any constraints on it.
But as we move and make a big move in 2013 to have really a seamless approach to this.
Because what's going to happen at one point my view is is that we don't want to get anybody should be thinking about getting credit for the sale.
And if you think of 2012 prior to the restructuring we were setup that somebody owned the P&amp;L online somebody owned it in outlet somebody owned it in specialty domestic and somebody owned it Internationally it was 4 different P&amp;L owners.
And they had agendas that ran through Sabrina and myself and we were in charge of coordinating those agendas and making sure we're doing the right thing for the company and the right thing for customers.
Now you have 3 Global Brand Presidents.
And their job is to say that I have a customer who chooses to shop in 3 different channels across multiple countries.
How do I maximize that as best as I can? When you take that kind of approach and think of something as simple as order online reserve in the store it doesn't matter whose P&amp;L that goes under it's going to go under the Gap Global P&amp;L.
And I think that the teams now are working much better together once we broke down the natural barriers.
Because I was a big believer in the previous structure we had of course and now I'm a bigger believer in the go-forward structure that it just takes everything out of the way and we always try to do the right thing.
If that means feeding more inventory into online we're going to do that.
If that means feed into another country we're going to do that.
But the key thing here is that it's just going to become more and more seamless.
So we're going to let it go as high as it can and as I said in my earlier comments any unit that goes through purely in our online channel has a better return on sales and of course a better return on capital than anything in our stores.
And now that we have a reset real estate we were thoughtful in 2008.
We didn't anticipate exactly where the online business or the outlet business was going to be but we were thoughtful going [ph] we don't need this number of stores we certainly don't need this size of store and with the reengineered fleet we have in place now I think we can make sure we move that inventory and satisfy customers because access and convenience is becoming that much more important and I think with our fleet and strong online site I think we can meet the customer demand.
We'll go next to Brian Tunick with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I guess maybe for Glenn it seems like the Gap North America brand sales are 30% smaller than where you peaked a couple of years ago and I guess the assumption is much of that has been a decline in women's market share.
So we were curious how you ranked maybe which categories Gap north America on the women's side has the biggest opportunity to regain share and move the needle over the next year or 2? I'd say Brian without getting into the category strategies where you are correct is that our Kids and Baby share is larger in that universe than our Adult share.
And as we told I think investors a couple of years ago it sort of builds on the issue why did we reengineer our real estate.
One of it was because there was a time where we had 450 standalone Baby store -- Kids and Baby stores.
And we really strategically thought that if there were customers that we did not -- we're not able to attract or satisfy make them loyal to Gap brand 5 years ago as their lives evolve how do we get them engaged again in the Adult business.
And one way to do that is the cross shopping that exist inside of a 12 000 square-foot Gap store where you can pass through between Kids and Baby and Adult.
I think that now that real estate is almost completely done that's going to be a big opportunity for Stephen Sunnucks and his team and much easier to use strength of Kids and Baby and the market share and the natural draw to get some in this case women shopping in the Adult section.
But there are key categories.
Nothing is going to change in terms of the strategies and I'm not here to give out where we ought -- equal to our total share in adult and where are we above and where are we below.
At the end of the day this is a business that is grounded first and foremost in depth [ph] in the adult business.
And our team in LA has done a great job.
I think we have -- we're seeing the results of that again this spring with some of the work they've done.
And that's -- there's probably 3 or 4 Adult categories that are really important.
That would be #1.
And the team is very focused on how do we make sure we continue to gain share continue to be innovative continue to be current and relevant in the denim business and that's where I know the merchants and designers are putting most of their energy.
We'll go next to Oliver Chen with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> In terms of some external factors could you brief us on the environment for product cost inflation? And also payroll taxes.
Do you think that certain of your banners will be more impacted than others and what our kind of the competitive proactive stances you can take in light of that? And if I could just ask a modeling question should we be more encouraged on the upside from the SG&amp;A margin or the GM as we think about your op margin expansion guidance? Sure.
Let me try and hit those 3 topics really quickly.
So on the average unit cost front as I said Q1 is pretty much the last quarter that we get tailwinds because we were still facing increases although nothing like the back half of '11 we were still facing increases in AUC in the first quarter of '12.
After the first quarter it really moderates and there's really no significant story around average unit cost.
So that will just be managed in its normal way and we'll manage through our mix and making select decisions around where we invest and not.
With regards to the payroll tax it's really hard to split out the impact of any of these moves.
But I think it's fair to say that our consumers now after so many years of a tough economy are sort of getting probably thicker skinned about any of these moves in particular.
I think there's certainly some that are impacted more directly than others.
But overall can we claim a large direct impact of that? I would say not overall.
Obviously if there's going to be an impact our customers at Old Navy are going to be more sensitive to it than the others.
And then finally with regard to how we're approaching our year -- and I'll interpret your question by saying how do we get to operating margin expansion Oliver.
I would say we want to be very balanced about that.
So we know that 2012 was unique because we could invest so much given that we were getting the benefit on merch margins not just from great products but also from average unit cost.
2013 we're going to use all of our levers the 3 big ones of course our expense leverage rent &amp; occupancy leverage and merchandise margins and we tend to approach those in a very balanced manner.
And we'll go next to Jennifer Davis with Lazard Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> My question is really on gross margins.
At the end of 2011 merchandise margins were down I think 440 basis points from 2009 levels.
This year you recovered 200 basis points.
So you're still about 240 basis points below peak.
And I would argue that the merchandise is significantly better now than it was in 2009.
So my question is first can you give us some sense of your full price or kind of planned promotional selling now versus 2009? And then secondly have you seen any benefits yet from the changes you've made in your sourcing structure? And then I'll try to throw one more in.
And that kind of leads to the real question of is there any reason why gross margins can't exceed prior peak levels? It seems like there's more room with merchandise margins and with the rationalization of the store base you should get some more buying and occupancy leverage not to mention the fact that International and direct are becoming a bigger part of the mix.
Yes I understand [ph] your question.
So let me try and -- let me try and hit that Jennifer.
So I think that one of the important things to remember is that 2009 for Gap was a very unique environment in terms of costing.
So the underlying cotton was certainly lower in 2009 than it was in '12 and then we expect it to be in '13.
So you've got an underlying commodity that's lower.
You have labor that was certainly lower in 2009 than we certainly expect it to be now with labor pressures in Asia in 2013.
So you had a very different costing environment for certain.
I'd also point out in 2009 despite our high gross margin rate we were negative comping.
So obviously it is important for us to balance delivering a very healthy rate which we are focused on with driving healthy comps and gross margin dollars.
Now that all said we do have levers and we are focused on delivering healthy gross margins.
And as you said first and foremost with positive comp performance we feel confident that we'll leverage rent and occupancy.
So that's a lever.
And then regarding our merchandise margins with all the effort we've put against delivering strong product assortments we have opportunities to move the needle in more reg selling.
Certainly still promotions.
We'd love to draw back a little either in frequency or depth.
And then markdowns also with better assortments we might have an opportunity there to not go as deep on the markdown itself.
So we are focused on it but very different than 2009.
And we have time for one more question.
Our final question comes from the line of Richard Jaffe with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> On a I guess farther raging topic sourcing you guys have undertaken a dramatic change in your sourcing policies and practices trying to enhance speed to market.
Obviously to manage the vagaries of the marketplace cotton last year.
I'm wondering how this multiyear initiative is going where you stand today and what kind of promises in the future? Look I would say we're probably in the third or fourth inning.
And the big driver Richard the unlock for us is we may have mentioned this in past calls for the longest period of time we were very focused on our vendors and some of the stuff Sabrina was just referencing when our margin rate was fairly high in 2009.
That was when we were at the peak of the recession.
We were making tough choices in our business.
And the choices we made back then was to really focus and negotiate and use the leverage of the company to get what is known as our cut-and-make cost down the actual making of the garment.
And that was a big focus of the business.
As speed came in and speed became more important as I was talking earlier about chasing a rapid response or just actually the whole fast pipeline which is putting new styles to work inside of a season what the team and the new structure turned to is really fabric platforming and working upstream with our mills.
So for the longest period of time we'd worked directly with vendors that was 99% of our relationships.
And now we have a much stronger relationships with mills and fabric first and foremost.
And the way we again go into third or fourth inning but the way we've got our merchants and designers to understand it is if you want speed and you understand the gross margin upside of speed and the customer satisfaction that comes with that the only way to be able to do that is have fabric that is ready to go.
So just one example last year we had a very good year.
When somebody was asking about categories earlier in denim at Old Navy one of the categories there was something we introduced called the Rockstar jeans.
And the Rockstar jeans is a fabric that we developed.
We platformed it and then the team in sourcing goes and negotiates as many years out to get as low a cost as possible and it's not colored and all the team has to do is make sure that we're giving in the moment daily information to the vendors to make sure we're getting the right color in the right quantity to come in and fill the pipeline.
We weren't able to do that 2 or 3 years ago.
I think that was I might have said this 2 or 3 years ago in a call that was as much cultural as anything else.
And as the culture has changed and evolved I think now people are appreciating that we have to work directly with mills work aggressively narrow the number of fabrics we have.
Because a fabric can be treated in so many different ways.
So less fabrics work with the mills directly have them available there as a platform opportunity create a toolbox of fabrics and therefore really push the speed part.
Because while I'm happy to get gross margin dollars both ways which is lowering our cost and driving more cost sales at reg and getting more dollars coming through on the AUR side the real benefit of speed is AUR.
And that's why I think the team can hopefully down the road get the benefit of both which is managing our average unit cost through the fabric platforming but more importantly putting more and more of our units on a faster pipeline which all 3 brands now have and drive a higher cost sales at reg.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Glenn just one follow-on question.
Are you making a financial commitment to the mills for fabric or is it more of an understanding a handshake if you will? Yes we don't get into the details of it.
But I think let's just put it this way that mills understand that they have so much capacity and they look for companies to obviously eat up that capacity.
So we work with our mills more than we had before to make sure there's so many yards that we need of fabric and I think that we've built really good relationships.
A lot of the new team members we've brought in know that side of the business very well.
As a matter of fact 1 senior person came from that business.
And it's what some other companies have done.
I think we're trying to not only catch-up but then eventually go past them in instituting this new process in the business.
Great.
I'd like to thank everyone for joining us on the call today.
And as a reminder our earnings press release which is available at gapinc.com contains a full recap of our fourth quarter results as well as the forward-looking guidance included in Sabrina's remarks.
And as always the Investor Relations team will be available after the call for further questions.
Thank you.
And this does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
My name is Amber and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Gap Inc.
First Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to introduce your host Katrina O'Connell Vice President of Investor Relations.
Good afternoon everyone.
Welcome to Gap Inc.'s First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
For those of you participating in the webcast please turn to Slides 2 and 3.
I'd like to remind you that the information made available on this webcast and conference call contains forward-looking statements.
For information on factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements as well as reconciliations of measures we're required to reconcile to GAAP financial measures please refer to today's press release as well as our most recent annual report on Form 10-K which is available on gapinc.com.
These forward-looking statements are based on information as of May 23 2013 and we assume no obligation to publicly update or revise our forward-looking statements.
Joining us on the call today are Chairman and CEO Glenn Murphy; and Executive Vice President and CFO Sabrina Simmons.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Glenn.
Thank you Katrina and good afternoon everybody.
Before I hand the call over to Sabrina who will take you through the Q1 financial highlights I want to take you through how we as a business are looking at the first quarter and also I want to give you an update on our key initiatives for 2013.
The one thing that comes to mind when I think about Q1 was the consumer.
Now we've been operating pretty much for the last 5-plus years in a very challenging environment.
And this is the first quarter in a long time that I think the consumer to us felt like they were moving in a positive direction.
Things are still challenging but they're starting to feel a little bit better for a lot of reasons that I'm sure we've all read about or know about.
So I'd like to think that that's a good sign as we look forward to the rest of the year.
Obviously the news story is that we were able to get a 2 comp in Q1 2013 on top of the 4 comp we had in 2012 also known as comp-to-comp.
Last year was obviously a good performance for the business driven by the investments we made in product and in marketing.
There was a little bit of weather help in 2012 and there was a color trend but I think our teams came out very strongly in this first quarter.
And I think it's nice to see across all of our businesses good 2-year comp performance in our 3 key brands.
Now to me the big driver that continues to be our product and we continue to have good product momentum.
Now comp is an outcome.
And all of our merchants and designers and marketers and our brand presidents know it takes good strategic thinking on where we're going to dominate and where we're going to differentiate in each one of our categories that builds up to a comp.
So when I looked at the quarter and I looked at the categories that -- Banana Republic and Gap and Old Navy the ones that drove over and above performance were the categories that we're putting a lot of time effort and money behind because we think we can get market share gains.
We can get an edge and we can get more customers to engage with our brands by showing that these are the categories whether it is suiting whether it is bottoms whether it is dresses; these are the categories that are going to differentiate ourselves against our competitors.
And lastly in the quarter just one more number I want to talk about was online had a 27% gain in revenue and that's key to us.
Everybody who knows our business the multiple channels: outlet specialty franchise and in particular online it is really a key strategic initiative.
So it was up 27% while the majority of that base is in the United States we are seeing really strong growth in Canada Europe China and now in Japan.
So let me just pivot for a second and talk about our strategic initiatives.
First and foremost it's about growth how the company is going to grow what new initiatives we have going on.
We've been clear about where we're putting our investments and in our February call we reiterated that in our investor meeting in April franchise store count is on track.
We feel good about the countries we're going to enter.
We feel good about the balance between Banana Republic and Gap.
Our global outlet openings everything is coming together on that front.
Again multiple country openings here in Canada in Japan in Europe and I was just in China to see the fifth store open.
That's a good opening for that.
A very important channel in this most important of countries.
China everything is going well.
That team just continues to impress me.
They have an aggressive agenda for 2013.
For one they're prepared and the consumer and the environment is just right for us in China.
So I think everything there is all systems go.
Old Navy Japan we opened 9 stores in Q1.
So we -- unlike most real estate it's been my experience in the years I've been doing this real estate tends to be back-end loaded.
So I was very proud of the team that they opened so many stores up in the first quarter and I'm going to be going there at the end of June.
But for all intents and purposes from the numbers the customer feedback the launch strategy that's really impressive to see that.
And that really gives us great confidence going forward.
Intermix is on track and Athleta openings are on track.
They are absolutely executing as we would expect in these 2 developing brands.
We feel good about the prospects for the rest of the year.
The last thing from our strategic initiatives I do want to touch on is omni-channel.
In the quarter we launched ship-from-store for Old Navy.
All of Gap is now on ship-from-store Banana Republic was in 2012.
We're easing our way into getting more stores and more categories on but the launch has been smooth.
The store execution has been great.
So this whole idea between a customer now going online and seeing that everything is available.
As we've talked about many times the psychological impact of showing an out of stock online the majority of our customers when they see an out of stock online something not available not in their size not in the right color then they assume it's not available in the store.
So that is just from a marketing perspective huge value to us but also the ability now to use our pools of inventory seamlessly and to take something from a store and ship it to an online customer; it's really just a preliminary step on this amazing continuum we have with the omni-channel.
We will be launching reserve-in-store next month.
That's in Banana Republic and Gap.
It's a pilot.
But again the ability for a customer to seamlessly engage with our business to go online see something that they love reserve it get down to the store hopefully buy more have an amazing customer experience I think is good for loyalty.
The next step along our path to get to a true competitive advantage and differentiation in the marketplace by acknowledging that the way to win these days is with great product compelling marketing and giving customers access to your business anywhere they want.
That's why we call it easy-buy-anywhere.
With all that said as I said in the press release we're pleased with our first quarter.
It's nice to get off to a good start.
Now the first week of every month and the first month of every quarter and the first quarter of every year are very important.
So it's good that we got off to a good start in this first quarter of a new fiscal year.
I'm going to hand it over now to Sabrina who will take you through the financial highlights.
Sabrina? Thank you Glenn.
Good afternoon everyone.
Our first quarter performance represents meaningful progress against our 2013 financial goals which include growing sales with healthy merchandise margins managing our expenses in a disciplined manner and delivering operating margin expansion and earnings per share growth.
Please turn to Slide 4 for our earnings recap.
Our earnings per share for the quarter were $0.71 versus $0.47 last year.
However it's important to note that of the 51% earnings per share growth in Q1 about 1/2 was due to the benefits from the calendar shift and from the favorable resolution of tax issues.
That said we are pleased with our underlying operating performance for the quarter.
Here are some highlights.
Net sales were up 7%.
Comparable sales were up 2%.
Operating income increased by $135 million or 34% and operating margin expanded by 290 basis points to 14.2%.
Net earnings were up $100 million or 43%.
Turning to Slide 5 sales performance.
First quarter total sales were $3.7 billion up 7% with comp sales up 2%.
Total sales and comps by division are listed in our press release.
Of the 5-percentage-point spread between total sales growth and comps sales growth about 1/2 was due to the impact of the calendar shift created by the 53rd week in fiscal year 2012.
As a reminder this year's first quarter dropped a small week in February and added a much larger more full-priced selling week in May.
The translation of foreign revenues into dollars negatively impacted our reported net sales by about $45 million in the first quarter.
This translation impact was primarily due to the weakening of the Japanese yen versus the U.S.
dollar.
In fiscal Q1 2013 the average exchange rate of the yen was roughly 18% less than for fiscal Q1 2012 or JPY 80 last year versus JPY 95 to the dollar this year.
Turning to Slide 6 gross profit.
Gross profit dollars grew by 12% to $1.5 billion and gross margin was up 200 basis points to 41.4%.
Our merchandise margins were up 160 basis points largely driven by decreases in average unit costs.
And rent and occupancy leveraged 40 basis points.
Please turn to Slide 7 for operating expenses.
First quarter total operating expenses were $1 billion up $34 million from the prior year.
Marketing expenses grew modestly by $4 million to $143 million.
As a percent of sales total operating expenses leveraged by 90 basis points.
Expense leverage also benefited from the calendar shift in the quarter.
Therefore we would caution against extrapolating this magnitude of leverage to future quarters.
Delivering on our goals of sales growth and expense leverage resulted in net earnings of $333 million up 43% to last year.
As I've mentioned our earnings in the quarter included about $0.04 of benefit related to the favorable resolution of tax issues in the first quarter.
About $18 million of the benefit is reflected in interest and the other $0.02 of benefit to EPS are reflected in the tax rate.
Moving to the balance sheet on Slide 8.
Inventory dollars per store were up 3% broadly in line with our comp sales growth.
The plus 3% is on last year's 7% decrease in inventory dollars per store.
For the quarter free cash flow was an inflow of $205 million roughly equal to last year.
We ended with about $1.6 billion in cash.
And we distributed $128 million through share repurchases and dividends.
Our quarter end share count was 466 million.
Please turn to Slide 9 for capital expenditures and store count.
First quarter capital expenditures were $151 million.
With regard to company-operated stores we opened 10 stores on a net basis and ended the quarter with 3 105 stores.
Square footage was up 0.3% compared to Q1 2012.
Store count and square footage by division are listed in our press release.
And now I'd like to share our outlook for the rest of the year.
Please turn to Slide 10.
As we said in our April sales recording our first quarter operating performance was broadly in line with our expectations at the time we provided our full year guidance in February.
Therefore nothing has meaningfully changed in our full year outlook and we are reaffirming our full year earnings per share guidance of $2.52 to $2.60.
To be helpful there are 2 important considerations for the remainder of the year.
First as we told you on our Q4 call our full year earnings guidance contemplated some of the impact of foreign currency headwinds specifically the weakening yen.
Since we provided guidance in February the spot rate for the yen has weakened by about another 10%.
The average spot rate for the yen last year was about JPY 80 current spot rate is about JPY 103 or at about 29% depreciation.
This depreciation negatively impacts our reported sales and earnings as our local currency results translate into fewer dollars.
Second as we've noted several times the fourth quarter this year has 1 less selling week than the fourth quarter last year.
Additionally the fourth quarter of 2013 drops a large fall selling week.
Therefore just as the first quarter benefited from the calendar shift the fourth quarter is expected to be negatively impacted by an amount that is at least as large as the benefit we saw in Q1.
For the full year the following guidance metrics remain substantially unchanged: operating margin about 13%; square footage up about 1%.
Regarding company-operated stores net of repositions we plan to open about 160 and close about 80; store openings are weighted toward Gap China Old Navy Japan Athleta and global outlets while store closures are weighted towards Gap North America.
We expect capital expenditures to be about $675 million and depreciation and amortization to be about $475 million.
We expect our full year effective tax rate to be about 39%.
We expect Q2 inventory dollars per store to be up in the mid-single digits.
In closing we're pleased with how we executed against our strategies in Q1 in particular driving a positive comp and revenue growth on top of last year's strong performance.
Of course now we're focused on delivering our goals for the remainder of the year.
Thank you and now I'll turn it back over to Katrina.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We'll now open up the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] [Operator Instructions] And we'll go first to John Morris BMO.
I guess maybe Glenn you talked really effectively you and your team when we had the Investor Day about the seamless inventory initiative which you touched on this morning in your prepared remarks.
It sounds like it's rolling forward maybe a little bit faster and into place than some of us might expect which is great.
I'm wondering if you can talk a little bit more about the performance contribution potential you might see coming from that.
I know it's hard to predict but maybe it's helpful to think about it relative to some of the global competitors who have some of those initiatives already in place that you would probably know about.
Okay John.
I'd say there was really 2 parts that we talked about in April.
So I'll just for -- from a terminology perspective it was a seamless inventory.
And the idea behind that that's going to take a little bit longer.
That's more of a midterm opportunity for the company.
The idea behind seamless inventory is right now as a company and this is true of almost every single apparel company with likely the exception of Inditex that we have inventory that is either in a country and that -- what is inside of a country like Japan and it's inside of a distribution center that's online inside of a distribution center that could be for stores and then it's inside of our 150 stores in Japan.
So the idea behind this is how do we with the systems we put in place now and some changes in process how do we make sure their inventory becomes seamless so when it leaves a factory from a vendor that 100 000 unit PO that was agreed to weeks before that just before it leaves it goes to the most appropriate country where it makes the most sense where we can maximize our sales and maximize our gross margin dollars because it's matching supply with demand.
And then when it gets inside of a country again how do we make it seamless between -- let's assume that you had a simple distribution center that would make a big difference for us.
And then when it gets inside of the distribution center how do make sure it's seamless between the online channel and the stores? So that's a project that we've already done some work on.
We're building the base and I think that's going to be more of a 2014 and beyond opportunity.
The other part that could be I guess viewed as seamless inventory is what we're calling a more responsive supply chain.
That is really that us as a business and this is something that in hindsight I probably should've pushed a little more aggressively inside the company but we've told people in the past that our supply chain needs -- in order to become more responsive it needs to be built on having much more fabric platform inside of all of our mill relationships.
Once you have fabric platform then you could do -- you can be a lot quicker on basic inventory and seasonal basic inventory to get a read and respond.
And we've done some of this and there are some of that going on in the company today.
But I guess if I was to characterize it if we'll be considered to be world-class we are probably the second from being in -- from the standing start we're probably in the second inning right now of actually getting to a more responsive supply chain.
Some of that will happen in 2013 a little bit.
But again most of the benefit from changing how we operate to changing the brand's operating model to be much more a responsive supply chain will happen in 2014.
Glenn are those potentially contributive in the hundreds of basis points over time just order of magnitude benefit? It's tough to quantify.
All we've said John before is that the people with the highest operating margin in our industry are in the high teens.
And we are in the call it for argument's sake the mid-teens.
And some of that difference not all of it some of that difference is that they have embraced a more seamless inventory management operating model and their business was built on a responsive supply chain.
So we're different businesses than the leaders when it comes to operating margin but I think there's definitely some application for us that we're -- again some of it is in place now but a lot more to come.
But it certainly doesn't explain the whole delta of 400- or 500-basis-point difference between ourselves and the leading company in our sector but I think there are some differences.
There are some of that can be explained through the fact that we haven't embraced ourselves those 2 opportunities.
So more to come and we'll see if we can get it in place for 2014.
But there's certainly value attached to it.
I just can't quantify it for you today.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Kimberly Greenberger with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Glenn when you think about the operating margin opportunity from some of the strategic goals maybe you could just rank orders them in terms of where you think the greatest profit opportunity upside might be; is it the seamless inventory or the more responsive supply chain? And over the next sort of year or 2 do you think you've got an opportunity to further lower your average unit cost or are you sort of seeing some stabilization there with perhaps some wage pressure creep into either late 2013 or 2014 costs? If -- I guess there's 2 parts to it.
If I focus exclusively on average unit cost the opportunity clearly for us is to use less fabrics in the business and have people -- our vendors are becoming more and more sophisticated.
And they're spending money on equipment.
And they're able to take a fabric now and do multiple things through washing it and treating it that they couldn't have done 5 years ago.
So I think that having fewer fabrics inside each one of our brands and committing for a longer period of time let's call it for a year or more to that fabric I think still gives our designers and our merchants huge flexibility to do the right thing on product.
We're not going to sacrifice anything for efficiency to not give them the ability to do the right products in all the categories I talked about earlier.
But I think it's clear to us now that we can reduce that give our sourcing team an ability to go work with the mills by having less fabrics and going for longer commitments.
So I think there's value in that to be unlocked inside the company.
Whether that value can offset wage pressures and everything else that's going on in everybody's supply chain that's to be determined.
I'm just happy that as I stated probably 5 years ago I'm just happy we still have lots of opportunities to improve the business from either from a cost perspective or from an earnings perspective because what I'm identifying here from an AUC is something that we do today we just don't do it as much as we should.
And the company has always had lots of priorities; the great thing about Gap Inc.
is we're rich with opportunities.
And this is this is just one we talked about before that I believe we can do a lot more with this and our vendors agree and I was -- I know this.
I was with all of them.
I spent 10 days in March in Korea and China and India.
So speaking to them about how much more we can do explain to them our plan trying to quantify the value of that.
So our team is working aggressively to get that 1 component done.
On your first question it's tough to rank them Kimberly.
What I'd say there's 3 opportunities we spoke about our Investor Meeting in April.
I apologize to anybody on the phone who wasn't there.
But we talked about the omni-channel opportunity which I think there's value unlock in it for sure.
And we're pretty far ahead and there's lots of components to the omni-channel that should generate real value.
The value I'm looking for is on the sales line and then the market share opportunity and then as the 2 I just talked to John so ranking them is difficult.
I think all 3 have contribution and value to be unlocked between the 3 of them.
And the only thing I would add to it is not much difference between the 3.
So there isn't that one is worth a lot and the other one is just a marketing term that we're using because we want to look like we have opportunities.
All 3 have opportunities and value to be unlocked.
And I'll just say they're all equal for now until we actually get them in place and get a read from our customers and see what it can generate in terms of earnings incremental earnings for the company.
So we're fortunate to have all 3 of those opportunities available to us.
We'll go next to Matt McClintock with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> So essentially I have one question.
You talked about 27% online growth and that really is outstanding particularly given the size of the overall business.
And I was just wondering if you can drill into that a little bit more.
How should we think about that growth rate being representative of the omni-channel investments that you've been making relative to maybe more traditional e-commerce traffic and growth drivers? And then you also touched upon China e-commerce growth in other regions.
How does your omni-channel capabilities set you apart from your competitors in these other regions these International regions? Matt I'll just start and then I'll turn it over to Glenn.
But just as a reminder on all of our sales in the first quarter including our online sales and we are really proud of the underlying growth.
But it definitely benefited from the calendar shift.
So we talked quite a bit and I said it again that this first quarter dropped off a small February and added to May.
So all of our sales including online benefited from that.
And now I'll turn it over to Glenn.
The only thing I'd add to that Matt is while I think it's easy to go to the omni-channel number -- sorry the omni-channel initiative than point to the online number and there's some truth to that.
It's still early days for us and I'm not going to -- I probably don't want to have too many baseball analogies today but it's still early but there are some contribution.
As Sabrina said it was calendar shift and probably a little bit of omni-channel but the underlying business has been healthy for a long time.
And we've been gaining market share online for a number of years.
That continued in this quarter.
I think when we think about it when -- we're going to have to figure out how to help you and the other people on the phone identify the value of omni-channel but one of the big unlocks is obviously as more and more people experience the brand through online and our traffic becomes at some point I can see these come in sooner rather than later where more traffic begins online than actually go -- than starts in the store.
Then with the different components of omni-channel a big part of this is getting people to experience the brand but get them into the store.
So that won't show up in the online number.
It should show up in the traffic number.
It should show up in the generation of earnings from a 4-wall contribution.
So while the early parts of omni-channel are helping a little bit on the online and more to come the big win that I'm waiting for is getting people who are more comfortable starting online to experience the brand be inspired by what they see and then get them into the store.
Internationally if we had what we don't have today.
But there's obviously a roadmap we've put together of when can the North American components of the omni-channel make their internationally certainly in a market like Japan and China that would be -- that would be leading-edge.
I think a lot of the omni-channel work and I travel around the world a lot seems to be coming out of North America particularly United States.
In Europe we'd like to get it in there.
There are some very good retailers in Europe and they're very innovative.
And I think some of the -- they're already advanced in some of these areas not necessarily in our sector but in some other sectors.
So I think that the sooner we can get some parts of our omni-channel total package into the European business I think that will help our European brands compete and also allow them to gain some market share.
And we'll go next to Oliver Chen with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Regarding Glenn your comments on the customer sound quite encouraging.
What gives you that conviction? I feel like in this conference call we've been hearing mixed signals in terms of caution from other management teams and volatility in the marketplace.
And secondly could you comment on looking forward for Old Navy? Some of the comp last year was driven more by units.
And what do you think about going forward for the opportunity to comp there on the unit versus AUR side? Well look we don't have more of a crystal ball than anybody else.
And what I tried to quantify on the phone is that the environment is never going to go back to the way it was in 2006 and 2007.
At least we don't see that anytime soon.
We wish.
But I did find this first quarter and we have our own research we do but obviously we talk to customers a lot we get feedback.
And when you couple that with good macroeconomic tailwinds which are starting to develop whether that's on the job front it may not satisfy a lot of people but it's still good to see whether that is in people's wealth that's tied up in their homes or in their 401(k)s I think all those things are positive signs.
And so we're certainly not predicting that the consumer sentiment levels that were in place 6 or 7 years ago are going to return anytime soon.
But we don't -- we look at a number of different metrics but one that I'm particularly as I've studied it for a long time a fan of is the Reuters/University of Michigan survey that comes out.
And I think that consumer sentiment has been moving nicely in the right direction for the last 12 months.
It's still a long way from its peak but I think we're comforted by the direction it's taken.
And so I think that that's good news.
Yes and on the Old Navy piece Oliver it's a good point.
Last year when we were lapping 2011's high average unit cost when the average unit cost came down especially for Old Navy because we had pulled so many units out in '11 we were putting them back in in '12.
So a lot of our comp was driven by that reinfusion of units but really just to get it back to a normalized level.
So I would say at this point going forward we're sort of at a position where AUC is stable.
It's not a big story either up or down.
So we will be managing the business in a more normalized fashion which is to say we need to drive our comps with some increase in unit sales but with the healthiest AURs we can achieve to meet our goal of delivering that comp growth with healthy margins.
We'll go next to Janet Kloppenburg with JJK Research.
I wanted to ask Sabrina if you could kind of let us know what your AUC benefit might be in the second quarter versus last year.
And Glenn given your discussion around the brand strength and the sourcing opportunities I was wondering how you felt about the promotional levels at Gap and Old Navy in the first quarter and if we could expect any change there in light of how you're feeling about the consumer confidence.
Yes so with regard to AUC Janet what we did say was that the first quarter is really the last quarter where we get the tailwind from all of the movement up and then down on average unit costs that happened in '11 and '12.
And from this point forward the AUC is really sort of a nonissue.
So the delta in AUC in the remaining quarters is not a meaningful change from the prior year.
And then I'll just start off on your promotion question and let Glenn finish.
Certainly this year it has been well documented on all the earnings calls before us certainly this year versus last year given the weather patterns in February and March this year was less favorable for retailers overall in general just given this weather pattern.
So for the quarter across-the-board we were probably more promotional than we were in 2012.
But that said I think we're very pleased and you can see it in our merch [ph] margin performance and our overall performance.
We're pleased with how the teams managed those promotions very surgically.
So we were still able to deliver on our goal of getting that comp up with nice margins.
And when we think of the 2 brands that you mentioned Janet look at the end of the day Old Navy is a brand in the value sector.
So I'm -- I think that as long as long as they're being creative and innovative and in a lot of ways aggressive that's what Old Navy needs to do given that -- as we talked about at the Investor Conference that market share for us in North America is really one of our top priorities.
I don't want excessive promotions at Old Navy.
I don't want ideas tripping over one another so consumer gets confused.
But if they come out on big weekends like we have this weekend and go on and dominate and show strength and drive incremental traffic into their business and gain market share then I think Stefan and his team are doing the right thing.
And as long -- for Old Navy to me it's always the voice.
It has a personality.
And if they're just going to be 40% off on Memorial Day weekend then I expect more from Old Navy to really come out and present its story and what the brand stands for.
So I encourage them to be aggressive because that's what -- that's why it's a member of the portfolio because it's in the value sector and its aggressiveness is one of its traits.
At Gap well I completely agree with what Sabrina said in the first quarter.
I think that we put some more marketing into that business.
We're feeling better about our product.
We've put some money into stores in some of the key cities around the U.S.
in San Francisco and -- sorry and New York and Toronto in Chicago.
So we're actually expecting that as they continue to improve upon their product their assortment strategy the marketing continues to be driven strongly in the back half of the year.
I don't feel good sometimes about our promotional level at Gap.
I mean that's an iconic brand.
And yes you need to talk about your value proposition.
But that doesn't mean they're going to be void of promotions.
That's just the world in which we operate.
But I think that I would expect that as long as those 3 other components I spoke about earlier continue to strengthen and get better that their need as their brand health and their relevance in the marketplace grows and it is growing from the research we have that they would have to be less dependent on some of the promotional decisions we have made in the past and find a better balance.
And we'll go next to Adrienne Tennant with Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Glenn your unit normalization strategy obviously has been very successful at Old Navy.
I was wondering what if anything would make you consider possibly building units at the Gap brand? And then for Sabrina a clarification question.
The $2.52 to $2.60 does that exclude the $0.04 benefit? And when you said that it comes out of the fourth quarter is that the $0.08 shift? So why don't I start with both of them quickly and then Glenn can follow up? On the units just to be clear our unit -- our goal Adrienne is as we're driving comps to balance units with AUR.
So I will tell you unit sales across the board for Gap Inc.
were up because I don't want to leave you with the impression that we're pulling units out of Gap brand that's not true.
We're actually marching to that same balance.
So we are increasing units to Gap Inc.
across-the-board and no brand is a standout in that.
So everybody is kind of up in managing their AUR.
With regard to the guidance so the way to think about that is there's $0.04 of tax benefits $0.02 are in the rate.
And the rate piece is really just a timing difference because the full year rate is still 39%.
But the $0.02 that came into interest that is a onetime benefit that does flow through but the range is an $0.08 range and there's lots of pluses and minuses.
So just as it's legitimate to bring that $0.02 from the interest on tax through there's other offsetting items happening as well and I called out one of them which is the yen.
So with the yen moving I kind of think of them together like one is going up the other one is hurting us.
We'll see the degree to which it does.
Does that answer your question? Research Division</strong> That's super helpful.
That absolutely answered it.
And we'll go next to Ike Boruchow with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I guess Glenn a question on the marketing side of the business.
I know you guys don't give guidance on what you're planning in terms of dollar growth or anything like that.
But just when you look out to the remainder of the year by brand where do you see the most investment? And are you doing -- planning on doing new things especially around the holidays? Well it's a little early to tell.
We're just finishing up the holiday product story line and the assortment strategy from the team.
But we -- I think Sabrina and I have been very consistent on marketing.
We feel that with the additional marketing we gave and allowed our brands to use in 2012 mostly at Gap brand where we put some money out of home and focused on our top 10 DMAs and we got some benefit from that.
That's why we didn't pull it back in 2013.
We didn't add to it but we didn't pull it back.
So we saw some benefit from the Be Bright campaign and that was resonating with people.
So I think that we've always felt there's an ample amount of marketing for our brands to differentiate themselves because our story line has always been that Gap Inc.
is a portfolio owner of 6 American brands.
And we don't run stores.
Therefore there's always a need for some marketing to be able to make sure that people understand what Old Navy and our Gap and Banana Republic and our other brands stand for what differentiates them how they are going to win.
So the marketing is a key part of that beyond just what it can do for traffic.
There's a story.
And I'm feeling better about some of the stories coming out from the team.
But the money and the investment I'm actually -- I don't see a need to put much more money into the brand.
So brand presidents want to make their own decisions and we will guide them and we will advise them.
But I think they are also content and have come to a place that they realized they have more than enough money.
The challenge from us is are they putting it through the right channels? Are they putting it through right mediums? Are we getting the right mix? I'd like to see us do more and more on the social side.
I think we've done quite a bit.
I'd like to see us do more.
And there are certain points that we're bringing forward and some data that we're sharing with them in order for them to make the right decisions.
But so far no need for more money.
And we've never taken anything off the table.
If Gap wanted to do anything different from holiday -- if all of a sudden they thought television made sense which I'm not saying it does or they're even contemplating that as long as it's within the total budget that we've agreed to and they want to do something else that's their decision to present to us.
But right now I don't see it much different from 2013 in terms of the playbook besides the creative is going to be different and the story is going to be different.
Yes and just to be a little helpful Q1 was up $4 million.
Q2 as Glenn said in spirit there's no huge change in plan but we're certainly not planning on bringing it down in Q2.
So directionally he was talking about Q1 and Q2.
And we'll go next to Lorraine Hutchinson with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> My question is around the operating margin expansion potential for the rest of the year.
What comp do you need to leverage your fixed expenses and then where do you see some of the bigger opportunities for gross margin expansion going forward? Yes.
So on the leverage Lorraine because about half of our total expense base is related to stores.
And over that half of that this variable to sales the way we think about it is we will manage our expenses in order to leverage our expense base.
Because we have that much that is variable so it's quite natural that we could use the levers to deliver that while still investing in our business which is why we say you should expect in nominal dollars expenses to increase if we're increasing revenue but we're always watching for that leverage.
So we sort of reverse engineered it if you will to make sure we can deliver that.
And with regard to the margin rate we -- Glenn talked about the levers that we still have opportunities to with the great product assortments with opportunities that are -- will be coming in the future around seamless inventory et cetera.
We are always looking to improve our profile with regard to regular price selling the depth of our promotions the depth of our markdowns.
So that's obviously a very important lever.
And then on the gross margin line of course we want to be leveraging our rent and occupancy which we feel confident we can do on a positive comp.
And we'll go next to Jennifer Davis with Lazard Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Glenn I think I'm going to take you back to a baseball analogy.
You referred to this a little bit.
I think it was in response to Janet's question.
We're do you guys stand in terms of putting money back into the stores and maybe increasing some the store payroll and the kind of help there? I think you still maybe have an opportunity there.
The merchandise looks good but some of the stores maybe aren't running quite up to the level they should be.
And then Sabrina thanks for the clarification around the calendar shift.
That was really helpful.
Just wondering how we should think about the second quarter and the third quarter.
I know the shift won't be as big but will you see a little shift between there? Well I've been doing this for a long time.
And what I know is that unfortunately at any given day something can go bump in the night in the store.
And the conditions and the standards the service can be below our expectations.
What I will tell you is that 2 things: one we start to put more money back into our business in last year's P&amp;L.
As we became a little more comfortable with products and as the teams decided that there was a service model -- sorry yes customer service model opportunity.
What I think they've done a really good job of is recognizing that if you have a fleet of 1 000 when it comes to Old Navy you have a fleet of 700 stores when it comes to GAAP that there are certain stores where we can actually get a return for that investment.
So they've been much more thoughtful on what stores where does the investment need to go? So in Banana Republic's case the return is in the fitting room.
In Old Navy's case you put more labor and that's in replenishment.
In Gap's case you put more labor into their business it's on the floor and actually engaging with customers.
So we understand our brands very well.
We know what our customers want and we know where labor at times needs to go because we've had either tested it or we just understand our business well enough what kind of return we get.
I'm disappointed obviously you're telling me in a backhanded way that you've been in some stores lately and have liked the product but didn't like either the conditions of the store or the service level.
And maybe you can tell Katrina where that was we're happy to look into it because we want to run a good business every single day.
And I know we just had our field conference here in San Francisco with our store managers and really got them not only motivated and pumped up about the opportunities going forward but they understand the role they need to play in the business to run great customer service every single day.
Now we track it.
Just happened to have board [ph] meeting this week.
Our scores are up again.
We've had good scores.
With that said Jennifer my theory on retail is you're only as good as your weakest link.
And if we have a single store in the chain that is not running a good business on a given day that hurts the overall brand and I know our field leaders understand that.
So I think the money is there and maybe that was just poor execution which is not acceptable from the way we look at our business.
Yes.
And then with regards to Q2 and Q3 our biggest notable shift due to the calendar are absolutely in Q1 and Q4 as we've noted.
I've heard people talk about Q2 and Q3.
And we're really not seeing any meaningful impact from the shift in those 2 quarters.
I think part of the reason may be that unlike some of our competitors we have 6 brands many of which don't play in back-to-school.
Obviously Old Navy does they are the biggest and Gap some too.
But I think with the 6 brands and the fact that we're probably also much more geographically dispersed than some of the competitors that are talking about the Q2 Q3 piece may be the reasons.
So for us it's Q1 and Q4 and very little in Q2 and Q3.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And Glenn that wasn't a backhanded comment.
It was just -- I think that maybe you still have an opportunity to do a little better.
But as you said with a big store base it's kind of difficult.
And we'll go next to Randy Konik with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So the story we have been trying to tell is the story of transformation and sustainability.
So when you think about the ability to obviously comp on top of comps and get revenue acceleration after the company has been in a kind of flat revenue environment for about 1 decade how do you tell the market out there how you believe in the sustainability of -- from a revenue growth perspective? How we should we be thinking of that type of theme? Well look the reason I mentioned it on the opening comments is only because I think that was written about by most people that that was a metric that analysts and some investors will be looking for coming off an impressive and strong Q1 in 2012.
So the fact that we backed that 4% comp up with a 2% comp is nothing that we're surprised about.
It's something we're planning to do.
And as Sabrina said in her comments we are looking to have a business that comps.
And as I said at the investor conference we are going to gain market share.
And Randy so that's a -- it's a short question that can take a long long time to answer.
And it really adds up to all the different ingredients that I think we put forward.
But what I would say is that in 2010 which was the -- a year that had not the consumer sentiment we're seeing in 2013 but it was coming out of a very difficult 2008 2009 the business had a very nice comp good top line and had record operating margins.
And that was the beginning of what the business -- with the talent we have the strategies and the hand we have to play that was a really a turning moment for us.
We started feeling the confidence.
And of course the cotton events of 2011 happened and we get we got distracted.
And then we have had a good year in 2012.
So we look at it and go okay well you can explain 2008 2009.
Most retailers struggled in those 2 years that have kind of heavy base rooted in the United States or in Canada.
2010 when conditions were slightly better we did very well.
2011 I just explained.
2012 conditions were more normalized.
We did well.
Q1 2013 conditions are more normalized.
We do well.
So I think that we're a team that's been through all of the different tests that you need to put a team through whether that's macro tests restructuring tests bringing new people in to an organization embracing change cultural or physical change as we've gone into China and other markets.
This business and the leadership has proven to be incredibly resilient.
So we're not trying to say that this is any prediction going forward.
But I think 2012 now into '13 as I mentioned in my consumer comments we feel that the consumer is slightly getting better.
And now it's up to people to look at as Jennifer was saying by going to more stores and seeing the products that I think that the team is starting to put back-to-back-to-back performance together with a lot more opportunity to come back to Janet's question on the operating lever and the changes to operating model which provide even greater efficiency and the value to be unlocked.
So look we understand what we have to get done.
It's a very competitive market.
There's a lot of people in our business.
But our portfolio strategy that takes us the value luxury in North America and our International growth opportunity I think you put that together and there's lots more we can do here at Gap Inc.
And we have time for one more question.
We'll go to Brian Tunick with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Guys just curious if you've hind sighted or done a survey work regarding where did you lose your customer to over the last couple of years? And sort of what are they telling you now regarding where they're coming from? And are you measuring both conversion and traffic to try to gauge how you're doing on that trend? Brian we have more data than you can imagine here.
But it's -- I think the best information we have is just we talked to existing customers.
We have a very strong existing base who I think with the struggle with them when maybe our business was not as strong as we like it to be was frequency.
We had them coming in with just frequency.
Then we have a strong base of lapsed customers people who don't come in for an extended period of time and we know how to speak to them and obviously get them back engaged with the brand.
They still feel very strongly.
And this is just at a very high level.
But any one of our brands any lapsed customer felt good about the brand didn't for a reason find -- didn't have a reason to come in for an extended period of time.
Now we're speaking to them more often in 2012 and continued in 2013.
What I would say is back to the opportunities available to Gap Inc.
are the number of new customers we need to get into our business and people who maybe have never experienced the brand maybe they've just come in of that age when it makes sense or we had a period of time where we were not as strong as we should've been not as relevant from a product from a marketing from a store perspective and maybe they -- we just skipped a period of time where people were not coming in with the natural curiosity you get with mall shoppers.
So I think that that's the work I'm certainly encouraging our brand presidents is you got to strengthen your strengths with your loyal customers there's an opportunity with lapsed.
I think some work has started on that front and I'm very engaged with them under this new customers who we have more to offer more to speak with them about and we have focus groups when we get new customers together and take them through our business take them through our product.
They get engaged.
I mean it's -- the response is definitely there.
They know of the brand.
It's just not a brand under consideration list and we need to be on everybody's consideration list.
So I think there's some work going on that front but more to come.
I think it's just early days on the new customer front.
I'd like to thank everyone for joining us on the call today.
And as a reminder our earnings press release which is available on gapinc.com contains a full recap of our first quarter results as well as the forward-looking statements included in Sabrina's remarks.
As always the IR team will be available after the call for further questions.
Thank you.
Thank you.
That does conclude our conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
My name is Amber and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Gap Inc.
Second Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to introduce your host Katrina O'Connell Vice President of Investor Relations.
Good afternoon everyone.
Welcome to Gap Inc.'s Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
For those of you participating in the webcast please turn to Slide 2.
I'd like to remind you that the information made available on this webcast and conference call contains forward-looking statements.
For information on factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements as well as reconciliations or descriptions of measures we are required to reconcile to GAAP financial measures please refer to today's press release as well as our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and our most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q all of which are available on gapinc.com.
These forward-looking statements are based on information as of August 22 2013 and we assume no obligation to publicly update or revise our forward-looking statements.
Joining us on the call today are Chairman and CEO Glenn Murphy; and Executive Vice President and CFO Sabrina Simmons.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Glenn.
Thank you Katrina and good afternoon everybody.
Sabrina will come on the call in a few minutes and give you the details of the company's financial performance in the second quarter.
Before we get to that I've just got a couple of comments on Q2 and then I want to talk a little bit about the second half.
And then of course you'll hear from Sabrina and we'll take all your questions.
On Q2 the company had very good sales results on a number of different fronts.
We felt good about the comp at a plus-5%.
That's a 2-year plus-9% which is good performance.
And it's the second quarter in which we have achieved an internal goal of comp-to-comp.
So I think that that's good performance for Gap Inc.
in the second quarter.
Now unlike a lot of other retailers and brands we continued to give monthly sales.
We've been giving them in the 6 years that I've been here.
We like it.
We think it's transparent.
That's not a commitment we're going to do forever and a day but for now what we think that makes absolute sense.
But I do want to say to everybody on the call that with the consumer environment we're dealing with and the changes in consumer behavior there's always going to be lumpiness from one month to another.
So I think I've said this before but it's worth reiterating: we report our sales monthly but we manage our business quarterly.
So we come out of the quarter regardless of how it may flow by month we feel very good that the company achieved a 5% comp for the second quarter.
That's very good performance.
I was also really happy with our total sales.
Now we had an 8% reported total sales.
But if you FX adjust that number it's a plus-10% which means Gap Inc.
had about 5 points of spread between comp and total sales in the second quarter which is also very good performance.
And lastly I want to highlight like I did on Q1 our online business grew by 27%.
Just coincidentally happens to be the same number as it was in Q1.
It's also that very important channel where we're putting investments where we believe we have a very strong share and we differentiate ourselves had a nice growth rate in the second quarter.
Now just moving to the bottom line.
It's nice to be able to leverage our business and set up an economic model which you can do that with.
So to got 160-basis-point improvement on our operating margin was nice to see.
That gave us a 25% increase in profit and a 31% increase in earnings per share.
So all-in-all when you look at those numbers I would say that Gap Inc.
had a strong Q2.
Now I'd like to give all the analysts and investors updates on growth.
I did that extensively in the first quarter call.
Everything's on track when it comes to China Athleta our franchise business.
Our growth initiatives continued to do well.
What I do want to add though is that Old Navy is opening in Mainland China.
It will be in Shanghai and it will open in the spring of 2014.
Gap is opening in Taipei which will be our first store in Taiwan in the spring of 2014.
One thing I want to highlight in the second half where there's noticeable change and some evolution that's taking place across all of our brands and that's in the marketing area.
That's in 2 fronts: it's in messaging and it's in the use of different mediums.
From a messaging perspective Old Navy their creative platform which they've been on for the better part of 2 or 3 years is going to change.
So Old Navy's positioning is absolutely consistent and is unique in the marketplace which is delivering fashion essentials for the family.
But after a couple of years it's always good for you to reassess the platform and the voice of the brand.
That's what the new team has done.
And I feel very good about the second half on how we're going to continue to take this brand in the value sector and differentiate ourselves.
Banana Republic if you've seen the Issa campaign that is out right now and the collaboration we have I think that's brand-new creative.
And that's the look and the feel that all of our customers are going to see in the back half.
And I think it just needed -- it needed a change.
It needed to be freshened up.
It needed to look a little more relevant.
So I think that's what you're seeing on the Issa creative execution and you'll see that kind of execution that kind of look and feel in the rest of the back half.
And lastly Athleta which has been a very strong success for the business and we love the marketing behind it which is Power to the She and that's what the brand platform is and that's not changing.
But it's going to evolve its look a little bit.
We want the brand to be a little broader.
And you're going to see some of that more around the holiday season.
On the medium front I have 2 things to report.
One that Gap is going back to television in the fall.
Many times over the last 4 or 5 years we've been asked if Gap would go back on television.
I understand the question because of the heritage and the association with Gap brand and great TV commercials.
I think the criteria for me has been pretty consistent.
What's the strategy behind it? Do we feel the messaging is strong and unique? Do we believe the product is absolutely the right product in our stores in order to go out and spend the money on television bring new people in? So Gap brand has been able to check off all those boxes.
So you will see Gap brand go back to television this fall.
Don't ask me about holiday I'll just try to get ahead of the question I don't know the answer yet.
Again we got to go through the criteria and make sure everything's right.
And if everything's right then we will consider television for holiday.
But that has not been decided yet.
And the other thing I want to mention is that we are really making a further shift in the back half of 2013 to try to acquire more new customers.
For the last couple of years I think a lot of our investment the mediums we've used have been to strengthen our strengths with existing customers at the same time as trying to speak to our lapsed customers.
Now there's always marketing.
If you put money in your windows you're always talking to some new customers but it's been mostly broadcast broadcast media.
And I think that the business now with so many more tools and so many more choices for a company like us you're going to see us put more money towards person casting and really try to speak to specific group of customers that we believe should be experiencing the brand and should be in our stores and should be on our online site.
And that's across all 6 of our brands.
So definitely that's going to be a focus on the second half because it's important for a business like ours in order to continue to move the business forward to have the right balance on loyal customers lapsed customers and new customers.
Let me close this portion of the call off by saying that all of our product for fall and holiday is bought.
From my perspective our design and merchandising teams have done a very good job.
Like any business you learn from the previous year.
You have to make adjustments you have to make sure that you're putting the focus and the energy behind where you can dominate.
That's why for years we've been talking about a comp is an outcome.
That's why each one of our brands as they build up their assortment they know what categories they're going to dominate on where they're going to differentiate themselves.
And that's where the focus is.
And look we've been doing this for years.
I just think this year coming into fall and holiday is just another year where the team has moved the needle forward.
So I like what the design and merchandising teams have done.
And now it's over to execution.
So it's over to our marketers I talked about earlier; our inventory management team; our store leaders; our online teams to really make sure they take the product that's been designed and execute it to the highest level possible.
To do what? Well of course to win.
To win more and more customers and to gain market share.
That's the business we're in.
I think we've done that in the first half of this year.
If you look in -- the first half was a market share gaining first half.
And it's certainly our goal sitting here today to replicate market share gains in the second half.
With that said let me pass the call over to Sabrina and then I'll answer any of your questions after she's finished with her comments.
Thank you.
Thank you Glenn.
Good afternoon everyone.
We're pleased with our second quarter performance as we again met our goals which include growing sales with healthy merchandise margins leveraging expenses expanding operating margin and growing earnings per share.
Please turn to Slide 3 for our earnings recap.
Our earnings per share for the quarter were $0.64 versus $0.49 last year.
Here are some additional Q2 highlights.
Net sales were up 8% with comparable sales up 5%.
Gross margin expanded by 60 basis points to 40.5%.
Operating margin expanded by 160 basis points to 13.5%.
Net earnings were up $60 million or 25%.
And with S&amp;P's upgrade of our credit rating earlier in the quarter we are now an investment grade credit with all 3 major agencies.
Turning to Slide 4 sales performance.
Second quarter total sales were $3.9 billion.
The translation of foreign revenues into dollars impacted our reported net sales.
For the second quarter our net sales were negatively impacted by about $56 million primarily due to the weakening of the yen.
On a constant currency basis our revenues were up 10%.
Total sales and comps by division are listed in our press release.
Turning to Slide 5 gross profit.
Gross profit dollars grew by 10% to $1.6 billion and gross margin was up 60 basis points to 40.5%.
Our merchandise margins were down 30 basis points and rent and occupancy leveraged 90 basis points.
Please turn to Slide 6 for operating expenses.
Second quarter total operating expenses were $1 billion up $44 million from the prior year.
Marketing expenses were up $1 million to last year at $148 million.
As a percent of sales total operating expenses leveraged by 100 basis points.
Delivering on our goals of sales growth and expense leverage resulted in net earnings of $303 million up 25% to last year.
Moving on to the balance sheet on Slide 7.
Inventory dollars per store were up 6% broadly in line with our comp sales growth.
Year-to-date we generated free cash flow of $542 million and we ended the second quarter with about $1.9 billion in cash.
During the quarter we distributed $97 million through share repurchases and dividends.
Our quarter end share count was 468 million.
There were share repurchases within the quarter were relatively modest we're pleased to announce our intention to increase our dividend beginning in Q3 from $0.60 to $0.80 per share annually.
This represents a 60% increase over 2012's dividend of $0.50 per share.
Please turn to Slide 8 for capital expenditures and store count.
Year-to-date capital expenditures were $315 million.
With regard to company-operated stores we ended the quarter with 3 106 stores.
Square footage was flat to the second quarter 2012.
Store count and square footage by division are listed in our press release.
And now I'd like to share our outlook for the rest of the year.
Please turn to Slide 9.
Given our progress in the first half of the year we are raising our estimate for full year earnings per share from $2.52 to $2.60 to $2.57 to $2.65.
At the midpoint this implies a growth rate of 12% for the year.
However as we've called out given the 53rd week in 2012 the cadence of quarterly earnings growth is uneven with growth weighted towards the first half of the year.
There are 2 important considerations for the remainder of the year.
First foreign exchange; and second last year's 53rd week in the resulting calendar shift this year.
Beginning with foreign exchange.
Our full year earnings guidance contemplates some of the impact of foreign currency headwinds specifically the yen which is depreciated by about 20%.
This depreciation negatively impacts our reported sales and earnings.
For example our first half sales were negatively impacted by over $100 million.
To be helpful we reported sales in the Asia region last year of about $1.3 billion.
The vast majority of which were yen-based.
Simply applying the 20% depreciation to this amount would equate to a meaningful headwind to revenue of over $250 million for the full year.
Now turning to the calendar impact.
As we've noted several times the fourth quarter this year has 1 less selling week in the fourth quarter last year.
Additionally the week that's dropped from the fourth quarter is a large selling week.
Therefore just as the first quarter benefited from the calendar shift the fourth quarter is expected to be negatively impacted by an amount that is larger than the benefit we saw in Q1 given the volume of sales for holiday is larger than the volume during the spring.
Keep in mind that both foreign exchange and the calendar shift impact the spread between total sales growth and comps sales.
Given these impacts we expect spread for the full year of about 1 percentage point.
Because the spread between total sales growth and comp sales in the first half was 4 percentage points we therefore expect the spread in the back half to be far less than the first half.
Aside from these 2 important callouts the following guidance metrics remain substantially unchanged: operating margin about 13%; square footage up about 1%; regarding company-operated stores net of repositions we plan to open about 160 and close about 80; store openings are weighted towards Gap China Old Navy Japan Athleta and Global outlets while store closures are weighted towards Gap North America.
We expect capital expenditures to be about $675 million and depreciation and amortization to be about $475 million.
We expect our full year effective tax rate to be about 39%.
We expect Q3 inventory dollars per store to be up in the mid-single-digits.
In closing we're pleased with how we executed against our strategies during the first half of the year.
And of course we're now focused on delivering on our goals for the remainder of the year.
Thank you.
And now I'll turn it back over to Katrina.
Thank you Sabrina.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We'll now open up the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go first to Kimberly Greenberger with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Glenn the entire team has done just such a terrific job in what appears to be very intense and competitive retail environment.
I don't know if you've had a chance to sort of step back and just look at what's going on in your business relative to everyone else.
But could you just touch on some of the key operational and executional improvements that you guys have implemented over the last 1 or 2 years to stabilize and improve the performance? And are you seeing any kind of encouraging signs in the traffic trends in your stores that's sort of potentially helping the comp trend? Let me start with the first question.
We -- I'd say what we've been doing for the last 3 or 4 years is to balance out the company's portfolio.
So when the new management team started together one of the comments that I think we made internally and possibly externally is we got hand -- we've taken over a very nice hand.
We've just got to make sure we play it right now.
Having a big business in the value sectors that's important.
That's Old Navy.
And we have a brand in the value sectors that's a great opportunity.
And the point of differentiation for us obviously Gap iconic more mid-market.
Banana Republic a little more of let's call it affordable luxury versatility and in -- what I would call versatile work.
So again all 3 brands being different from one another.
One of the things I've tried to do since I've been here is make sure that while there's always a little bit of internal dynamic tension between the brands -- and let's face it apparel is only so big so there's going to be a little bit where they intersect in certain categories.
We try to make sure there's enough differentiation between the brands.
I think that helps us.
And then as you know for the last number of years we've been pushing our online business putting investments behind that because we know that's the future.
And we've always had a great platform.
We're just building in that platform and evidence of that is another great quarter of a 27% growth.
And that's good not only for where the customer is but it's great for return on capital great for return on sales.
And simultaneously we've been pushing the outlet business.
So a good opportunity where 2 of our brands where they're established brands but there's a value derivative of those brands.
We've put a lot of money and a lot of square footage has shifted into that business.
And lastly as we've gained confidence and made investments in our international markets driven by our franchise business which is contributing nicely it still has a long way to go in terms of its size a lot more Banana Republics a lot more Gaps in countries we're already in.
Next year will be Old Navy's chance to go into franchise markets.
And that's also a business that has a very nice return on sales return on capital.
So I think the biggest thing we've done is to balance out the portfolio.
Now although they're not significant contributors to this particular quarter then you have a new brand play between Athleta Intermix and Piperlime.
So I think one of our advantages some people choose to have a singular brand and that's where they focus and that may make sense for them; for us given how fragmented the apparel business is where the leading market share player could have something like a mid- to high single-digit going -- coming to the market with different brands and unique brands and multiple brands into different channels and into different geographies obviously as we execute and we have a long long way to go is paying off as evidenced by this quarter.
Now traffic I think we've been stating on our monthly calls that traffic has been slightly negative.
Maybe some people reporting in this quarter had traffic that was maybe better than that.
It certainly seems like some had traffic that was worse than that.
We would love to be able to continue to find the innovative and creative solutions that could get us the positive traffic.
That's certainly not a goal we're giving up on because our view is that somebody's always delivering a positive comp somebody's always delivering positive traffic.
That's how we have to believe it that in spite of our slightly negative traffic from -- in the first and second quarter that we strongly believe there's positive traffic to be had.
But then you holistically when you add that up with our online business and put it together it's a different picture.
So we're finding a way to drive UPTs to drive conversion to drive average transaction in this environment where in spite of the innovative and creative marketing we may be putting into place we're seeing slightly negative traffic.
But we're not giving up on that.
We have great real estate because we've been around a long time.
We've been repositioning our real estate over the last 5 years so there's no excuse on the quality of the real estate of the business and we've certainly put capital into our stores.
So now it's up to the marketers and the store operators to turn that investment into positive traffic.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from Lorraine Hutchinson with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Sabrina I just wanted to follow up on the decline in merchandise margin this quarter.
What were the drivers and what's your outlook for the rest of the year? Yes so the merchandise margin was down very slightly.
Fortunately as we've been calling out that a big driver to our gross margin opportunities going forward is going to be in rent and occupancy.
So very much as we'd expect Lorraine we're driving that expansion through rent and occupancy leverage on the positive comp.
We said that past Q1 we were not going to have any AUC tailwinds any longer and we just wanted to deliver our merchandise margins and our comp -- or our comp with healthy merchandise margins.
We feel like in this environment we very much achieved that in Q2.
And so we'll always be looking to do well on the merchandise margin line but a lot of our opportunity lies in the continuation of rent and occupancy leverage on a positive comp.
Going next to Lindsay Drucker Mann with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping -- Glenn on the last conference call I think you talked about feeling better vibes from the consumer in a sense that things were starting to pick up.
I was curious if you still have the same point of view and whether you can give us a sense on how August started and back-to-school started at this point.
Well I think you know us well enough that we're not going to comment on August.
And when it comes to back-to-school it's obviously a moment in time but it's not a holiday for our portfolio of brands that may be for other retailers that you cover.
Old Navy is really the only brand that participates in back-to-school.
So while it's important and we certainly want to go out and gain market share and use it as a way to bring new customers into our stores it's not something we're as dependent on as others.
In terms of the customer my views haven't changed.
That all I can do is look at it from a high-level and go it seems that there are a positive signs on employment in this country and in some other countries because we're global player.
It seems like certain wealth creation whether it's in people's equity in their homes or whether it's people who may be fortunate enough to be in certain stock markets that that's creating wealth beyond was -- people would have had in 2012.
And other -- like anybody we're doing our research we're talking to customers all day long we're trying to manage people's -- trying to understand people's expectation and where customer sentiment is.
But as I tried to say in the opening comments we figured out as a management team in 2008 that we were dealing with a new paradigm that somebody coined back then as the new normal.
And in the new normal it's not uncommon for customers for very little reason or any reason to go into hibernation.
Whether that's for a month or whether that's for a quarter that's just something that we become acclimatized to.
And our team as what I said earlier to the question that Kimberly posed I look at it this way that even if there was a period of time in 2009 or 2012 where for reasons that are out of our control that customers may go into a period of hibernation our view is somebody is always winning.
And somebody is always positive comping positive traffic comping gaining market share.
So our position to our team and one that I know Sabrina and I embrace is that should be us.
And what are we doing in spite of a period that customers may be in another category or delaying purchases whatever they may choose to do because of this new paradigm we operate in we still have to look at and go there's business to be had there is traffic to be taken there's market share to be gained.
And that's the attitude we have to take so we're used to it.
Would I prefer it was like 2007? Sure.
Would I prefer things were like the 1990s? Part of the 1990s were also attractive as a retailer.
This is the customer we have.
So our attitude is let's just make the best of it and let's do like we did in Q2 which is get a 5% comp get total sales of 10% and have a quarter that produced the kind of leverage that we had and let's go out and gain market share.
We have a good portfolio of brands.
There's no reason that shouldn't be us.
We'll go next to Janet Kloppenburg with JJK Research.
Sabrina I wondered about your comments with respect to gross margin and [indiscernible]? I was wondering if that implied that you were less optimistic about full-priced selling opportunity in the second half of the year.
And Glenn I wondered if you would talk about the denim category.
You've invested in it in a major way at both Gap and Old Navy.
A lot of people are talking about the comparison to colored denim from last year.
And I'm wondering if you think that could be a challenge this year.
Janet I will start with the first part of your question and my comment to Lorraine's question was in no way meant to imply that we had changed our outlook on reg selling.
In fact in the second quarter we improved in terms of how much we sold at reg and promo.
So we sold less at markdown more at reg and promo.
So we're on a really good path with good momentum there.
I think our opportunity really lies in continuing to be quite surgical about our promotion and making sure that we are getting the highest yield we can and not giving away too much as we do what our customers value and want which is some promotional activity but continuing to manage those really well.
But we did very well on the reg selling bucket.
And of course that remains an opportunity but I think we have some good momentum there.
And then as far as denim is concerned it's a dominate category for both Gap and for Old Navy.
And we're not -- we would never abandon color.
It's part of the DNA of both brands maybe a little bit more in Gap than it is in Old Navy.
You're still going to see color.
There's color still in our stores this fall.
There'll still be colored denim in our stores in holiday.
Is it less pronounced? It's less pronounced.
I mean I think our view is that trying to climb the mountain a second year in a row when a lot of people came in last year who bought a lot of colored denim from us I think that there's still opportunity to sell more to them in the next 6 months.
But the move we have made in either the marketing campaign for Gap of Back to Blue or the current marketing campaign for Old Navy is we believe in going back to indigo with different treatments.
Some cases it's coated denim grays are very big for us.
So we're really pleased with the business we're doing in that category.
So between Gap Outlet and Old Navy and Gap I think we've made some really good decisions to not move away from color but to maybe marginalize them a little bit versus what we had last year in the back half and then add something new and fresh and try to make sure not only do we have the right different kinds of indigo interpretation but we have an amazing fit that the inventory has done right and then we count on people online and in the stores and our marketing team to tell that story.
And so we're pleased with how the marketing looks.
We're certainly pleased with how the denim is showing up in the store.
And this is not just 1 month this is -- what you see now is the foundational shift that we believe we had to make that you'll see in our stores.
Not -- of course there'll be new product coming in but foundationally the shift you're seeing is going to last us from now until the holiday.
We'll go next to Matt McClintock with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Glenn I thought it was interesting the comment you talked about going after a new customer profile for all of the brands.
And I was just wondering if you can elaborate that and maybe give us some more color on what is the profile of the new customer versus your existing customer? And what were some of the limitations that prevented you from perhaps going after this customer before? Yes maybe in my opening comments I may have misspoken.
What -- the message was that the customer profile has not changed whatsoever.
And neither has the positioning of the brands or in many cases the platform or the marketing.
Our view is that if you just use Old Navy for a second and say that we have a customer profile who's a targeted customer we understand that customer who she is who he is what their families are.
In a business like Old Navy is you just target that customer exactly as a percentage of customers that are available for every x percent of customers we may only have 5% or 10% of them.
And within that group we look at it and go how are we holding on to our loyal customers which I think disproportionately that's been our obsession coming out of 2008 2009 back to a -- I feel like I'm a historian today back to giving you a history lesson but coming out of that period of time we really focused on holding on to the customers we had.
And then the last year maybe 18 months you've seen some of the investments and some of the mediums we've been using to make sure that we can address lapsed customers.
And this is where big data is important because now we can look at information and look at tendencies of customers who are loyal and what makes them lapsed and try to get to them and speak to them and incent them in some cases before they become a lapsed customer to stay loyal with us.
It's all the same about new customers Matt is there's a lot of customers in our targeted profile who really believe it or not either have not tried us and have not come into our stores whether it's online or into our stores or they were with us a number of years ago and with the changes we've made to our assortment to our product especially Gap and Old Navy that we need to go out and speak to them.
And there's so many more tools now and so many more ways to target a specific group of new customers to get them to experience your brand that were not available to us 5 years ago.
And that's where we put a lot of money in the last 5 years is not only in understanding customer files but trying to actually get bigger files that can talk to similar profiles but actually -- because these are customers who have no history with us let's say in the last 2 to 3 years.
So that is to me a missed opportunity and our marketing teams and our brand presidents know that.
The last thing you want to do is to gain a lot of share in a big holiday like July 4th and go out and have the right product the right messaging and gain share and on the very next day after a big holiday I go and talk to the exact same customers.
I mean they've been into your store they've gone online now.
You're not going to get people to unnaturally frequent a brand.
So share of wallet is important but we've got to get to new customers.
And I think what you're going to see in the back half is no incremental marketing necessarily but a shift in some of the marketing to speak to new customers.
And that's one of the reasons Gap is going back on television.
We'll go next to Betty Chen with Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering Sabrina the SG&amp;A number leveraged very nicely in the second quarter.
Can you remind us of some of the opportunities or is it mainly coming from the leverage on the top line.
And whether some of those opportunities can continue into the back half and how we should think about that line item? Yes.
We did do very nicely on SG&amp;A and we continue to be very disciplined on that line item.
I would say the 2 primary drivers helping us in the quarter was all of our store-related expenses did very nicely and were well managed by the teams and leveraged nicely.
And then as well lacking last year's big investment in marketing where we're sort of on a nominal dollar basis you can see holding those marketing dollars being up only 1 million that's providing some nice leverage as well.
So those are probably the 2 biggest buckets.
As Glenn sort of alluded to in the back half we'll continue to be disciplined.
Certainly marketing because we invested so much last year we certainly don't intend to divest but we're probably not going to increase those investments a lot.
So they should continue to leverage.
The only thing I'll call out of course is that in the fourth quarter because of that lack of a 53rd week of course leveraging is going to be different in the fourth quarter than it is in the other quarters.
We'll go next to John Morris of Bank of Montral Capital.
Glenn I think a question for you about one of the initiatives that I think went live last quarter the Reserve in Store initiative.
How's that going? What are you seeing from it? What kind of benefits are impacting the business maybe in terms of Citrix thinking about the UPT et cetera? You're right.
We launched it about 8 weeks ago.
It's in a total of 40 stores divided into 2 cities and into 2 brands.
So that's in Chicago and San Francisco and it's Gap brand and Banana Republic.
And just to take a step back it's just -- it's another -- it's another point along the journey for us when it comes to omni-channel.
So we were early into ship-from-store which is more than a year old.
We then obviously this is all about dealing with the customer first we then realized the ship-from-store was helpful.
We then realized the power of find-in-store which is making sure a customer before they make that first decision to start a journey you can go on our site hit the FIND IN STORE button on a particular product and find out the availability of that product within a store within 25 miles of where they currently are.
That's a tool I think we still need to invest in and educate people on.
But we know one of the biggest challenges everybody in retail faces maybe a little more pronounced in apparel than maybe if you're in a drugstore business is when they see something that you can get them excited about whether it's through the marketing you're doing out of home or in magazines or windows in your store or something online of course on your smartphone is will it be available? I mean think about that when a new collection launches or something like a collaboration with Issa trying to find out if it's available is -- that's that battle that customers have with themselves because that's the nature of this industry.
It could be gone very quickly.
So find-in-store is very important.
Find-in-store then gave birth to reserve-in-store.
So to answer your question John just to give you a little bit of the path we've been on we've been really happy with it.
It's unique.
It's different than pickup-in-store and I think that we're learning a lot of lessons but in the -- we've learnt lot of lessons in the last 8 weeks.
The one I can share with you that's most interesting to me and there's a dozen little anecdotes like this but the percentage of people who are reserving in off-hours has been really interesting to me.
And I didn't see that coming.
I knew that would be a feature we could talk about but just imagine now that basically the marketing message coming forward.
Because part of the test is to inform us as we roll this out to more markets in the fall is how exactly do you position us? Why would I want to reserve something in-store? But with the crazy world we all live in and the hours people have to put forward with their business life their personal life the ability to go on at 10:00 or 11:00 or 6:00 in the morning and see something that really is something you want and to reserve it and then be able to get a text from us when the store opens I think that's proven to be a much bigger draw than I thought it was going to be.
So I think as we roll this out that could be part of the marketing.
As it -- basically our store is always open.
You can always find out from us.
And so place a reservation and first thing in the morning our team fulfills that.
So it's -- that's one of the lessons one of many lessons that you'll see us apply as we make the decision to roll this out further in the fall to more than just 2 cities.
We'll go next to Dorothy Lakner with Topeka capital markets.
Research Division</strong> Maybe tagging onto that last question Glenn I wondered if you could talk a little bit about the split between e-commerce and stores or the lack thereof.
There has been a lot of talk I think on other calls where perhaps results have been weaker about online-only retailers taking market share and how many stores are you going to close and -- kind of the conversation moving towards is the stores business going away.
And clearly you're ahead of the pack anyway because you closed so many stores over the last decade you really cleaned up the stores portfolio.
So how are you feeling now about the omni-channel business and the power of having stores versus -- or with the online capability that you have as well? Well just one point before.
We've only started closing stores 5 years ago.
We probably shouldn't have opened stores in the first 5 years of the decade you're referring to but the store closure program really started in 2008.
We'll have it completed by the end of this year.
Well we've said publicly there's always going to be maintenance closures you're going to do or repositions.
If you have a big fleet -- you heard Sabrina talk earlier just under 3 200 stores -- a big fleet like that there's going to be more than onesie and twosie.
But you're right.
We got ahead of the pack because that was one of our strategic initiatives in 2007.
I don't know.
I don't -- we're -- we see that in a completely different way.
I may be wrong with this number but if nothing else it's directionally correct.
In the last quarter I think Amazon's number who are peer play were up 22%.
And we've been up 27% the last 2 quarters.
So our view is that these -- I think it all depends on people's definition of the omni-channel.
For us the omni-channel definition is that the world becomes seamless and that it's totally transparent.
It's all about serving the customers.
So if a customer to John's question is in Chicago and wants to reserve something 11:00 at night and get a text from our team at 9:05 after we open at 9:00 saying it's here Dorothy and it's waiting for you and we're going to hold it here for 24 hours that makes the store incredibly valuable.
The other thing I want to mention to you that -- it's a stat I gave out recently is in spite of the fact that more and more customers are experiencing our brand online first that number should hit about 50% this year where the smartphone your tablet is the first place you go to experience the brand the one number that has not changed is that -- and we -- this is 6 years running now 80% of our customers actually want to go try on the product in a store.
And even though the smartphone tablet and they're experiencing virtually an online of the brand and being able to lose yourself and do your own discovery and shopping online and that's why investments online are very important the store matters in our category.
So what better advantage do we have than to build a transparent seamless environment.
As I mentioned to John we started with ship-in-store find-in-store reserve-in-store and as I'll talk more in September as I attend a conference in New York is about the ability now to personalize that experience and be very cognizant of the power of a physical bricks-and-mortar location and an offline and bringing those 2 together I think that's who's going to win in the long term those who can do that in our category.
And just to underscore Glenn's point Dorothy when we report comp we said that online generally contributes about 2 points of the comp.
So with our 5 comp in the quarter certainly you can see that our store's underlying has a very healthy comp.
And we'll go next to Jennifer Davis with Lazard Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Sabrina first a quick clarification.
Did I understand this correctly did you say that the impact of the calendar shift on fourth quarter EPS would be greater than the $0.08 benefit that you saw in the first quarter? And then my question is how much fabric or what percent of fabric are you currently platforming and how much has that increased this year and how much more room do you have to go with that? Great.
So yes you listened really well Jennifer as usual.
So that's exactly right that the negative impact to the fourth quarter is larger than the $0.08 that the first quarter benefited from.
And then I'll let Glenn take the fabric platforming.
Haven't had a chance yet today to use our analogy with innings but I would say that on a fabric platforming the benefit of that will really be felt in the first quarter of 2014.
But we likely came from an environment where -- earlier this year we're probably in the second inning we get into the second half in the third inning and I think we'll catapult ourselves to the sixth or seventh inning in the first half of 2014.
And then the target we have what percent of our total business will be fabric in a -- in a fabric platform environment into a toolbox.
And part of this started with fabric reductions and eliminations and consolidation.
That was very important.
Once you get that done and that's the work that's been going on for the last 6 months then you get into a platformed environment.
So will be a little bit of progress in the back half of this year but we'll have it all done by the second half of 2014.
We'll go next to Brian Tunick with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> One for Glenn and maybe one for Sabrina.
I guess Glenn as you hindsight with Stefan on the Old Navy business for the first half just curious from a category or execution perspective what were you most happy with and where do you still think Old Navy has the biggest opportunities as you guys work together? And then maybe for Sabrina it looked like you only bought back I think $27 million worth of stock in the quarter and you didn't raise the dividend after the close.
So just curious should we be thinking about you're going to be increasing the dividend faster than you buy back stock or just any thoughts on the capital allocation.
On Stefan what I can say about him is that he's harder on himself than I am on him.
Look a lot of this -- a lot of the impact Brian that Stefan is making on the business will more be felt in the back half.
Just in fairness to him he started in October of last year.
So we didn't have him necessarily jump right into the business day 1 so his biggest impact is yet to come.
But I would say building a great team which he's done which is 75% 80% of the people are in the company already but putting the team together getting everybody very focused has been very important.
The fact that he really believes and loves what this brand stands for because sometimes you bring new people in in spite of how you may interview them and what they may say you get them in the seat for 30 60 90 days -- and some people may have different opinions I love the fact that he's been consistent since the first day he's here of what this brand stands for.
Now he's evolved it.
He's polished it up.
But I think he's got really good clarity in the business about what's important for him and how Old Navy is going to go out and win.
And you can't debate the fact that he's had a pretty good execution with the product that he inherited which was good product.
I mean the team before him did a very nice job.
But you still have to have somebody who has to take that as I said earlier in my earlier opening comments about the second half of this year you still have to have somebody who stewards that through.
And first -- second quarter comp of 6% is good performance.
So I think that that's where he probably had his first initial commercial impact on the business.
So I think that's very good.
And he found the right balance.
I like the fact that he didn't unnecessarily chase any given month.
As I said people look at our business internally.
We obviously have a long long view that Sabrina and I have which is measured in years.
But our brand presidents look at their business on any given quarter.
So he didn't unnecessarily chase 1 month versus another; he did make the right decision and he produced a very good quarter.
So I'm -- with that all said I'm excited about the second half for him because he's view of Old Navy his view of fashion and apparel his view of how he's going to bring that brand and continue to build on it and build on it and win I think some of that will be felt in the second half.
Yes.
And then with regard to -- I'll call it cash distributions broadly.
Our -- many of our philosophy has really changed Brian.
So we're big believers in distributing our excess cash to shareholders and we will continue to use both the dividend as well as continued share repurchases.
With regard to share repurchases the stocks actually just moved up and we're pleased with that quite a bit year-to-date and even within the quarter.
And we tend to be opportunistic.
So we just haven't caught that wave at the right moment.
But there's been plenty in years where we do a lot if not the majority of our share repurchasing in the second half.
So we're still very open to that program and we look forward to continuing it.
The dividend increase really is about underscoring our commitment on the dividend side as well.
We -- we stepped up the dividend in a meaningful way at the beginning of the year.
But truly probably increased it at a more conservative end of the payout range we like to be at.
So we were at 25% with the $0.60 dividend per share.
And part of that is when we increased the dividend at the been very beginning of the year we were contending with more uncertainty with regard to the tax rates just being lifted on capital gains and dividends and the fiscal cliff situation the debt ceiling situation.
So with more clarity on that we felt really comfortable stepping up the dividend to the higher end of the payout range that we like to be in.
We'll go next to Oliver Chen with Citi.
This is Nancy Hilliker filling in for Oliver Chen.
My -- I have one question related to just product.
In terms of athletic apparel within the different brands Gap Old Navy and at Athleta can you give us an update on how Athleta is performing? It seems to be a popular category this season.
And also if you could just give us a little bit more information on updates with Intermix and Athleta and performance there in particular.
Well what I would say is athletic women's athletic apparel has been popular for many seasons.
And it's the reason that not only that we decide to make a decision to acquire Athleta but also to boost our presence in that category by really introducing GapFit into the Gap business.
And you can see the active product and the active brand you see at Old Navy.
So our view is that this is not cyclical.
That you have a long-term opportunity where women in general are looking at different combinations of occasions and outfits and it's -- you don't have to walk too many malls or too many schools or see people on weekends that there's -- it would be a little bold of me to call it the new denim.
But there is something about the occasion of wearing something that's very fitted that you're comfortable in that's casual that can also look good.
I think that we've covered the bases because similar to denim you have different people buying at different price points.
You have Old Navy who have their active bottoms which again are doing extremely well at $29.
You have Gap with GapFit at $49.
And you have Athleta around the $79 price point.
So to us as the category continues to grow if it is like denim then we are really well positioned on -- really where the majority of the business is going to be done are going to be in those 3 price points.
As long as the people who run those business continue to differentiate them put the right technical properties into them make sure that the fit is phenomenal and consistent then you can have fun with it.
After all were in the fashion business unlike other companies.
So when it comes to color and print and patterns that's something that comes naturally to our teams.
So I think that we're really well positioned in that business.
Intermix again we're just very happy.
It's early days.
And we'll open a few new stores this year.
I think the team is doing a good job in New York.
And I think Art Peck that's leading it is really trying to think about the business strategically.
But we're really happy with the brand and it just gives us a chance to get not only the learning we're going to benefit from in Gap Inc.
but a chance to provide some of the advantages Intermix would never have on their own.
So if you think of what we're really good at we're really good at the online business at nowhere of importance.
We're really good online.
That's something that can really help Intermix business.
We understand real estate and fleet management.
That's something that we can really help Intermix with.
And the list goes on and on and on about how do we combine our competitive advantage and our strength to this really good brand and gain share in the luxury business which is not something our portfolio had the opportunity to do before we acquired it.
So so far so good and more to come.
We will take our final question from Ike Boruchow from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I guess the question is on marketing.
And I guess this is a question for both Glenn and Sabrina.
Glenn the idea to go back to TV for the first time in 4 years can you talk about what the rationale was and how you thought about that from an ROI perspective.
And then I guess Sabrina when we think of -- your advertising dollars have been roughly low-single digits in the first half of the year.
Because you're going back to TV in terms of how much that costs I mean how should we kind of expect that for Q3 and the back half if you could give any guidance.
Well I'll just start sort of from a financial perspective.
We feel really good about the investments we're making in marketing.
And even though our traffic is still slightly negative it has been improving from Q1 into Q2.
With regard to the television I will tell you that the team has just done an excellent job of being really efficient with that spend.
Because unlike the last time we were on television which was holiday '09 when we used to invest quite a bit of dollars to do national network TV we're no longer pursuing television in that fashion.
So it's going to be much much more focused and surgical on our top market and buying spot TV which I think these days especially is just much much more efficient than the old national network.
So that's how we're keeping the dollars well in hand.
And we think it's a solid investment.
I'll turn it over to Glenn.
And I mentioned in the opening comments that there's different gates that -- not just Gap we're not picking on them -- but if anybody wants to shift their investment in any kind of significant way again the investment increase is not going to happen but moving the money around and experimenting with new mediums we tend to get involved on those conversations.
Gap very effectively crossed all the gates I talked about in my opening comments.
The big thing for me is television is to be repetitive as the medium but what I like is the content that the team is putting together that can be used in social it can be used on our online site it can be used in cinema it can be used on television.
So the content is what's important.
And our CMO for Gap who is super talented working with Stephen Sunnucks and the team has come up with some great content.
Now within the framework of how much money they have to spend which even in short -- in 4 short years between 2009 and today the options for that team are multiples more than they would have had in 2009 where television was probably 90% of the use of expense on the content we develop.
I'm not going to give the number but it's a number much much less and you're much less dependent on.
Although it's still a very important medium you're much less dependent on it.
So I think the knock-on effect of television and all the other levers that the team is going to use is going to be great.
I think the creative was well thought through.
I think it's very Gap-appropriate.
I think it's in a season we've got something to talk about which is Back to Blue back to our heritage what we stand for how we want to differentiate ourselves.
So I feel good about what they're doing.
And as I said whether this produces another use of that medium -- we're going to produce content for holiday whether we use television medium is to be determined but we're going to have content.
That's how I'll leave it with you.
I'd like to thank everyone for joining us on the call today.
As a reminder our earnings press release which is available on gapinc.com contains a full recap of our second quarter results as well as the forward-looking guidance included in Sabrina's remarks.
As always the Investor Relations team will be available after the call for further questions.
Thank you.
Thank you.
That does conclude our conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
My name is Rebecca and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Gap Inc.
Third Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's call is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host Katrina O'Connell Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Good afternoon everyone.
Welcome to Gap Inc.'s Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
For those of you participating in the webcast please turn to Slide 2.
I'd like to remind you that the information made available on this webcast and conference call contains forward-looking statements.
For information on factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements as well as reconciliations or descriptions of measures we're required to reconcile to GAAP financial measures please refer to today's press release as well as our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and our most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q all of which are available on gapinc.com.
These forward-looking statements are based on information as of November 21 2013 and we assume no obligation to publicly update or revise our forward-looking statements.
Joining us on the call today are Chairman and CEO Glenn Murphy; and Executive Vice President and CFO Sabrina Simmons.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Glenn.
Thank you Katrina and good afternoon everybody.
Before I hand the call over to Sabrina who will take you through the key metrics in our third quarter I just want to give you a couple of opening comments.
This was our seventh quarter of positive comps and we feel good about that.
A very important part of what we've been talking about mostly internally is the momentum in our business gaining market share and that's been important for us.
And this was a 2-year comp of 7.
I think it was a good performance for Gap Inc.
And the difference between good and great in this quarter was that in Q3 of 2012 we had a very strong quarter in colored denim at Old Navy and Gap.
It's kind of the peak of color.
It started in February 2012 and kind of peaked in August September and October.
I think the team did a very good job last year.
And so it was a good quarter.
But I expect great every single quarter and I have to look at it now and go in hindsight could we have built a better assortment commercially that could have allowed us to gain share and growth in other categories besides denim that when you put it all together could have produced a performance of better than a plus 1? My answer to that is yes and the merchant teams and design teams and marketing teams know that our expectations always are when you're up against that kind of very strong performance in denim last year then what are we doing strategically on our assortment and how are we building an assortment to be as commercially strong as possible to achieve better growth and better market share than the year before? Now I've been here 25 quarters and every quarter has its own unique circumstances.
I've been here for 2 quarters where we we're announcing an acquisition.
Whether that was Athleta or Intermix.
I've been here in some quarters where we talked about we're going to go into a new country.
An example of that was when we announced that we're going into China for the first time.
I've been here where we've talked about the fact that we had to make adjustments to the company's operating model in order to be successful.
But in order to get a 14% increase in earnings per share we did manage the SG&amp;A line without doing I want to make -- this is very important to me without doing any long-term or midterm damage to the business to our prospects to our brands.
This is the model we have.
And when we can sense that maybe you see a little bit of a consumer slowdown or in this case a combination of the consumer not reacting the same way they did in the first half of the year and us not building the kind of assortment that I hope we could build we were able to make the adjustments in our economic model to still produce the earnings we produced.
And I think that speaks to the experience of the management team the commitment of us at Gap Inc.
to be successful and to win and produce results that we expect of ourselves that we'll make those adjustments.
But I do want to be clear on one point this is very important to me we will never make any reductions in an SG&amp;A plan that damages the business short term midterm or long term.
We still had strong investments in the third quarter to deliver our growth plan to introduce omni-channel to get the company ready next year for responsive supply chain and just the beginning of what seamless inventory will be for us in 2015.
Those don't get touched.
That's all part of the company's long-term plan.
So this was just one of those quarters.
Now looking forward we're just in the beginning of this very important quarter.
It's not only important because it's Q4 and involves a big holiday season.
It's important because it's the last quarter of the year.
And in order to maintain the momentum I talked about earlier on the comp side of the business we like to finish every year strong and this is what this fourth quarter is about.
I think the teams have done a great job getting ready for this holiday season.
We're as ready as we've ever been to compete in the marketplace and that's in Europe in Japan in China in our franchise businesses Athleta Intermix our 3 iconic brands.
Now it's interesting there's been a lot of conversation about late Thanksgiving and all the holiday shifts.
Our view is there's always been this many holidays within the larger context of the quarter.
You've got this run-up before Thanksgiving which is -- again this is true of the U.S.
marketplace.
You have the actual event of Black Friday and the 2 days that follow it.
You have these 2 or 3 weeks after Thanksgiving.
Then you have the week of Christmas and then what's become really important is the week after Christmas.
So we more than any year have really planned and said "Well look there's really 5 holidays inside the holiday." Let me just leave you with this one thought.
Every year all companies come into the holiday season with a pretty good list of what we're going to do differently to make sure that our business is better than the year before.
That's a long list and none of us have enough time to go through it chapter and verse today but I just want to mention a couple of them to you.
One is on Tuesday this week we launched Reserve in Store which we were piloting in Chicago and San Francisco into every single one of our Banana Republic stores and close to half of the Gap brand fleet.
Secondly we've made gift cards a much bigger part of our business and there's been some great work done by all of our teams to make that really a driver of success for us from now till the end of the year.
And lastly we are very coordinated between our online and store business.
The reason behind that is the structural change we announced last year of them looking at the brand across all channels you'll notice they're much more coordinated.
And I think that's going to be good for us to make sure that we can come together with the marketing power and the promotional and event power behind those 2 channels to win the season.
Thank you for your time and let me now pass over to Sabrina.
Thank you Glenn.
Good afternoon everyone.
We're pleased that we continued to meet our goals of growing sales and increasing earnings per share in the third quarter.
Our earnings per share were $0.72 versus $0.63 last year.
This represents an increase of 14% on top of last year's 66% growth.
Here are some additional highlights for the quarter: Net sales were up 3% with comparable sales up 1% on last year's 6% comp increase.
We leveraged operating expenses by 230 basis points.
Operating margin expanded by 100 basis points to 14.5% and we distributed nearly $900 million of cash in the quarter including the repurchase of 20 million shares at an average price of $38.77.
Turning to sales performance.
Third quarter total sales were $3.98 billion.
For the quarter the translation of foreign revenues into dollars negatively impacted our reported sales by $61 million primarily due to the weakening of the yen.
On a constant currency basis our revenues were up 5%.
Total sales and comps by division are listed in our press release.
Now turning to Slide 6.
Gross margins declined 120 basis points to 40%.
Merchandise margins were down 140 basis points driven by our promotional activity in the quarter.
This was partially offset by rent and occupancy leverage of 20 basis points.
And gross profit for the quarter was about flat to last year at $1.59 billion.
Regarding inventory we're pleased that we finished Q3 with inventory dollars per store up 4% in line with the guidance we provided at the beginning of the quarter.
Moving to expenses.
We managed our expenses in a disciplined manner and leveraged operating expenses by 230 basis points.
Total operating expenses declined by $60 million versus last year to about $1 billion.
Marketing expenses were down $16 million to last year at $162 million primarily due to lower spending at Gap and Old Navy.
Delivering on our goals of sales growth and expense leverage resulted in net earnings of $337 million up 9.4% to last year.
Moving on to cash distribution.
True to our commitment to distribute excess cash to shareholders we repurchased 20 million shares in the quarter.
Our ending share count was 449 million.
Year-to-date we've distributed over $1.1 billion and we're pleased to have announced today a new $1 billion share repurchase authorization.
Year-to-date capital expenditures were $487 million focused on our growth in China Old Navy Japan global outlets and Athleta.
We ended the quarter with 3 160 company-operated stores.
Square footage was up about 1% versus the third quarter of 2012.
Store count and square footage by division are listed in our press release.
And now I'd like to share our outlook for the remainder of the year.
We are reaffirming our full year earnings per share guidance of $2.57 to $2.65.
The range encompasses a reasonable set of outcomes for a holiday season that we anticipate will remain promotional.
As a reminder at its midpoint this guidance implies a growth rate of 12% for the full year on top of last year's 49% increase and this is even after absorbing the impacts of both foreign exchange and the loss of the 53rd week.
The following full year guidance metrics remain unchanged.
Operating margin about 13%; square footage up about 1%.
Regarding company-operated stores net of repositions we plan to open about 160 and close about 80.
Store openings are weighted toward Asia while store closures are weighted towards Gap North America.
We expect capital expenditures to be about $675 million and depreciation and amortization to be about $475 million.
Full year effective tax rate guidance remains at about 39%.
For the fourth quarter specifically there are a few important call outs.
First it's important to note that Chinese New Year shifts from February 10 last year to January 31 this year.
This shift in timing will likely increase our in-transit inventory at the end of the fourth quarter.
Therefore we expect our inventories at the end of the quarter to be somewhat higher than the Q3 increase though certainly still in the single digits.
Second regarding foreign exchange.
Keep in mind that our year-to-date sales have been negatively impacted by $162 million or an average of $54 million per quarter.
We expect this translation impact to continue into the fourth quarter.
Naturally this currency depreciation also negatively impacts our earnings in addition to our sales.
And finally the 53rd week.
As we've noted since the end of the first quarter just as the first quarter benefited from the calendar shift the fourth quarter is expected to be negatively impacted by more than the $0.08 that benefited Q1.
This is because the volume of sales for holiday is larger than the volume during spring.
As a result of having one less week and the calendar shift it is unlikely that we will leverage expenses in the fourth quarter especially rent and occupancy.
Additionally driven by the loss of the 53rd week we expect the spread between comp and total sales in the fourth quarter to be negative.
Having explained the unique considerations around the fourth quarter let me close by saying that we're pleased with our solid year-to-date performance.
We've achieved top line growth of 6% with comps up 3% and we've delivered year-to-date earnings per share growth of 29% on top of last year's 43%.
As we look forward we're focused on delivering solid performance in the fourth quarter across our brands while pursuing our long-term strategies.
Thank you and now I'll turn it back over to Katrina.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We'll now open up the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question will come from Edward Yruma with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> It seemed like you pulled back a little bit on marketing in 3Q and I know that you were doing television or were going to.
How do we think about marketing expense in the fourth quarter? And I guess how much flexibility do you have based on kind of how the holiday shapes up? Sure.
Most of the marketing was just as planned Ed.
I mean you're right.
In the third quarter once we decided not to do television in the fourth quarter the production costs that would have gotten into the third quarter didn't occur.
But for the most part that reduction was as planned.
What I'll tell you to be helpful we expect marketing spend overall for the full year to be probably flat-ish so implies it might pick up a little bit in the fourth quarter.
But overall no dramatic change.
And as a reminder because marketing is so important we are holding sort of flat-ish as I said on a full year on top of 2012 very large investment in marketing of over $100 million.
From Citi we'll go to Oliver Chen.
Research Division</strong> Our question is about the assortment and the opportunity for betterment there.
Could you just clarify where you may see the most opportunities in? The merchandise margin in the marketplace has been tough on everyone given the promotional nature.
Are we to expect a continuation of the down merchandise margin? If you could comment on how you see that proceeding that'd be great.
Let me take the first part of that.
What I was trying to say on the assortment in my opening comments was a little bit that there's uniqueness to every quarter.
And one of the unique attributes about Q3 for us was it was anniversary-ing some very strong positive performance by us on denim in -- especially in August and September and the denim was really driven by the color trend that was going on in 2012.
So the criticism of myself and of our teams is that we knew that trend was coming.
I think we tried to match indigo with treatments on indigo denim up against the colored denim trend when in hindsight every now and then you're going to get a trend especially in a category that's as strong as denim for Old Navy and for Gap where trying to match that dollar for dollar in our assortment it's just not possible.
I think I've told people before on the phone that over 12 months indigo denim with any kind of treatments and whatever the trend is on indigo will beat over 12 months will beat a color trend.
But any given month or any given quarter when the trend is that strong on color it's tough to really match that.
And in hindsight -- and this is what we get paid to do and I get paid to do is to make sure that the assortment opportunities outside of dominant categories like that we make the right investments put in the right product market them accordingly so we can gain share across our total business and maybe take a slight pass for one given quarter on such a big category as denim.
And then with regard to the merch margins we don't guide specifically to that.
But to be helpful as I said in my remarks we are assuming a continuation of the promotional environment.
And then with regard to growth margin combine that with the fact that it's unlikely that we're going to leverage rent and occupancy due to that lack of the sales in the 53rd week.
Research Division</strong> And Sabrina just as a follow-up when we think about next year and inventory as a major theme how should we think about the model -- the modeling in terms of all the opportunities you guys have with untrapping and other more efficient inventory management? Yes.
I mean we'll have more to say about that when we get into next year.
And really most of that starts to take hold not until the back half of next year and into 2015.
But more commentary on that next year Oliver.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Betty Chen with Mizuho Securities.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering Glenn or Sabrina certainly I think we all know that it's been very promotional out there.
How do you think it's impacted each of the brand differently if any? And do you feel like given the learnings we've seen so far that they have sort of the right tactics going to holiday? Related to that I was wondering if you can comment on sort of the Gap Cash event and sort of any early learnings you can share with us regarding that? Here's what I'll say about it I'll say that the promotional environment that -- and I'm sure that there's been a lot of commentary on over the last week as people ahead of us have had their calls and spoken to investors and shareholders.
But my view is there's a little bit of fatigue out there when it comes to consumers.
So the question is are we disappointed in the consumer sentiment? Or as we I'm just being honest as an industry have we really not been that innovative in order to give the consumers a value proposition that doesn't look like wallpaper day in day out? Now we've tried to break out of that and I think we've done a good job at Gap Inc.
I think we can do a better job going forward.
But if the definition of winning is having a similar promotion on a similar category week in week out I think people are going to do that.
I think they're going to struggle going forward to the point where the consumer is looking for an event they're looking for something exciting.
At the end of the day we're in the fashion business.
Maybe in my past life just purely playing a discount or price card might have been effective but not in this business.
So when I think about the fourth quarter -- and again I think our team every single year since promotions became a little more prominent in the industry have worked hard to become a little more innovative.
And you mentioned Betty Gap Cash.
Well there's Gap Cash.
Banana Republic are doing the 8 Days of Giving.
We've got L'Wren Scott coming out in a couple of weeks our big launch partnership with Banana Republic.
We've got Overnight Millionaire for Old Navy.
That's going to start at 7:00 on Thursday.
So a little bit of public service announcement here.
7 p.m.
Thanksgiving Day $1 million.
So Overnight Millionaire.
We have Reserve in Store which we launched on Tuesday.
So we're really working hard one and this business is all about product and it's about service.
And -- but we're really trying to make sure that we don't become predictable.
That's really an acronym you do not want to have stuck on your brand.
We are trying to be a little more provocative find different ways to express value and I think the team has done a good job.
But my belief is they've done a really much better job in the fourth quarter.
And it is at the end of the day the job of the marketers to speak to customers in a way that doesn't cause them fatigue.
Research Division</strong> Glenn related to that can you share with us what your thoughts are so far regarding the Gap Cash event in the...
Yes it's a little early but it doesn't actually get -- there's the earn period which takes about 30 days that we give customers a break and then there's a redemption period.
And the redemption is not starting officially until the day after Cyber Monday.
So not that we'd ever comment on it but I've been pleased with how Super C-A-S-H as a tool has worked for Old Navy.
This is a different spin because Old Navy and Gap are different brands but at least we've learnt how to actually do that the first time around.
Made some mistakes with Super C-A-S-H when it first was introduced a couple of years ago but that's true of any program.
That's been incorporated in Gap Cash and I think their first time out will be of high expectations.
But we won't know much for another 4 weeks.
And again we'll never give specifics but I'm hoping it'll be as I just finished saying something that's different and something that's provocative and not predictable that can help Gap brand gain market share.
[Operator Instructions] From Janney Capital Markets we'll hear from Adrienne Tennant.
Research Division</strong> My question is again on the highly promotional nature.
Obviously Target this morning had talked about this new test in the California market I guess for this Black Friday 40% off all apparel and accessories.
And it kind of sort of begged the question as an industry leader -- can you hear me? Yes.
Research Division</strong> How can you sort of change the nature of the competitive deflationary pressure generate that customer loyalty back to the brands that is not solely tied to price? Well I think I gave a little bit of that earlier when Betty had her question.
Look another part of this Adrienne is that one of the advantages we have is that we're not a one-dimensional business.
So in the malls we have to compete for that business hopefully using some of the tactics I said earlier to be able to speak to customers in a much more provocative way and not be -- not all relying on a discount -- I don't know about this test but just being a 40% off on an easel on the outside of your door I mean anybody could do that.
But we're in malls we have outlet stores we have a very strong online business we're in strip centers with Old Navy we have an international business.
So when it's all said and done we said this about 5 or 6 years ago that one of the reasons we entered into the strategy we did on multiple brands through multiple geographies into multiple channels we didn't want all our eggs in one basket.
So is there deflation in the apparel business? Well if you look at NPD they'd say no.
But is it a business that has heavy inflation? The answer is also no.
And we are trying and the best you can do when it's all said and done is have amazing brands.
So if you own a store you -- like the company you mentioned earlier they own a store.
But if you own brands and you put marketing behind them and you create excitement about the brand and ultimately in our business you create some passion about what that brand stands for then that's what's supposed to sustain you and we're working towards over a period of time where there may be some deflation.
And next we'll hear from Lorraine Hutchinson with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Glenn you talked about not cutting anything that would damage the long term or short term for the brand on SG&amp;A.
What did you cut? And are some of those buckets available to offset the deleverage from the lower sales in the fourth quarter? Well Lorraine I think you know us well enough and I may have said in my opening comments that one thing Sabrina [ph] and I did when we started working together about 6 years ago was we committed to ourselves we'd run -- we would put together a new economic model we'd build an economic model that had flexibility to it.
And as I said earlier every quarter has its own unique circumstances or nuances and Sabrina and I have really trusted our brand presidents and their structure.
We give them a chance to actually be successful in the quarter put their plan in place and stick to the plan and execute it.
But like anything in business if you can't adjust to that then you're going to have a failed quarter or a failed success in a full year performance.
What we've been doing with them is we give them a chance to really deliver on their plan.
And when we see that the plan may not be delivered like in Q3 to the level we expected we have a flexible model.
We can make adjustments.
And I should say that last week the clock started again.
And we now have a plan that we agreed on with them many many months ago and they're working their way through that plan right now that has the right balance of sales gross margin dollars and leveraging expenses to produce the earnings we expect.
But at the end of the day let's look -- let's take this from a glass half full.
At the end of the day the sales -- let's assume the sales were better than we expected assumption.
Therefore the margin is better than we expected like it was for 7 quarters before this recent quarter.
Then we can let them continue their plan or even in some cases maybe make some deeper investments to maintain the momentum.
These are choices we have as a business.
And what we like about it is we're not stuck and we can make that all the way through the end of Thanksgiving into Cyber Monday then run to Christmas then run after Christmas.
So I think the brand presidents understand that.
We trust them that they're making the right decisions.
But if we see a business that looks a little weaker than we expected then we know how to make the adjustments.
And I would say Lorraine the only thing I'd add is for the fourth quarter you could certainly count on us to continue to be disciplined.
But as I mentioned in my remarks given the sales from that extra week fall-off it's unlikely we leverage especially in rent and occupancy.
But with regard to expenses if we do get some leverage it's likely to be very modest.
From BMO Capital we'll hear from John Morris.
Glenn on -- I know you talked about the TV marketing already.
I'm curious about the timing of the decision.
It's relatively new right to pull back on the fourth quarter marketing? And I'm just wondering your thoughts behind that why and your thoughts about that as it relates maybe into next year as well.
Well John it really wasn't a pullback.
I think that we -- if I did say this in the last quarter what the intent behind it was that if the third quarter television investment for Gap was outstanding on a number of different metrics we had the ability because we have television buy we can always exercise or let go and open up to the market then Stephen Sunnucks and the team at Gap Global would have chosen to come out this holiday and put the money in place.
And I actually thought that television was quite good.
We received a lot of positive comments especially strong on social media.
But as we looked at it we just felt that we had a good plan in place.
We had a better media mix.
And the need for television well a consideration wasn't necessary.
But if we look at next year what I can tell you is that all of our businesses are constantly looking at their media mix.
I can't think of a single company you guys are talking to who isn't doing the exact same thing.
So what that means with Old Navy is Old Navy is a strong television advertiser but they're seriously looking going forward about the -- at their media mix.
Gap is not a regular user from a medium perspective of television but it's an option for them.
I think I've said before even if Banana Republic had such a great idea and TV was part of the mix that can make that idea come true and give voice to it and drive traffic and market share in gross margin dollars we're not against it.
It's not part of the repertoire today but we're not against it.
So when it's all said and done I think that you can count on Old Navy to have the broadest of media mixes.
Gap has flexibility to always consider an additional medium which is television and we play it sort of -- we have a plan strategic plan full year.
We look at the media mix and then we make choices as we come into a quarter.
And next we'll go to Matt McClintock with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Glenn so you're expanding Reserve in Store but only to half of the Gaps.
I was just wondering if you could provide some of your thoughts on how you think about the opportunity for Reserve in Store between Gap and Banana Republic.
And then you earlier talked about gaining market share through innovative ways and methods.
I was wondering how do you think about Reserve in Store as one of those innovative methods as you look to the holiday season? It's a little soon to tell on the second part of your question.
I know I've said before that to me this is -- it could executed properly I think it could be a bit of a game changer for us.
And we're going to get a really good read.
The whole premise behind Reserve in Store was let's test it before the holiday and let's learn.
Because if there ever was a time the notion of 12:00 at night somebody's on their tablet or their desktop or their smartphone going on to the Gap or Banana Republic site seen something they love reserving it getting a confirmation first thing in the morning and then coming in -- because again it's a reservation.
It's not pickup reservation is we believe most appropriate for our business -- and then come in and hopefully our team can expand on their selection by adding different items and products to it and then completing the purchase.
So people are time-starved this time of year.
It's a unique service.
It's only been broadly available in 650 stores since Tuesday morning.
So it's a little early to tell.
But I really believe that if we can get a good read execute it flawlessly and get the marketing that tells customers a story I just told you which is -- we're open 24 hours.
And don't think we're not.
You can actually -- it's amazing how many people are actually placing orders after 10 p.m.
and before 8 a.m.
And that's really the message this time of year.
Place the order we'll reserve it for you.
It's sitting there we'll tell you when we have it.
So I think it could be a great foundational component of unique messaging in our category for those 2 brands maybe even for Old Navy one day definitely for Athleta as we look at unique marketing ideas to try to drive our business as I've said to Betty earlier that are not dependent on promotional activity that we think is inappropriate when you have brands like we have.
Why 200 stores? The Gap team looked at it.
They've got great regional coverage.
The Banana Republic team were the first to actually test it.
They were the ones who were further along so they were more comfortable going almost chain-wide.
I wouldn't be surprised if the Old Navy -- sorry if the Gap team didn't add more stores in the New Year.
And next we'll hear from Lindsay Drucker Mann with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask Glenn you talked about the fact that you not to the detriment of your long-term investments when you pulled back on some OpEx this quarter you still were able to invest in a number of things including dynamic supply chain.
I was just curious can you give us some specifics on what your investments -- what areas you were investing in and what we should expect from dynamic supply chain for next year? Sure Lindsay.
I think what we were trying to communicate there's certain investments and certain strategic plans the company has that are regardless of any given kind of signs of ourselves or consumer weakness we're just going to continue to stick with them because they're part of the company's long-range plan.
So in that bucket you'd have investments like in China Old Navy International Athleta growth some recent growth with Intermix global outlet I mean there's a list of investments we continue to make.
To your point we went forward whenever it was sometime earlier this year and said besides our growth initiatives we have seamless inventory.
So that's just getting going now but will not be delayed because of one single quarter and we are just getting ramped up now to make the investments in 2014 to get the benefit of a seamless inventory operating model in 2015 omni-channel that Matt just asked about.
It would have been easy for Sabrina and I to cancel delay Reserve in Store but we'd never do that because that comes with an investment.
It's a very important part.
And of all the omni-channel plays we have and I just met with the omni-channel team the other day roadmap is in place really excited about some of the ideas they have for 2014.
And the last one is what we call responsive supply chain.
And again those don't come with a lot of investments.
That's more of a process change than investments.
So from that perspective we are continuing to push ahead.
We've made some good progress.
It's never enough for me.
I would really like to see us go faster on that front.
But the team is moving at a pace they're comparable with.
As Sabrina said earlier maybe a little teeny bit of benefit in the early part of 2014.
But the majority of a responsive supply chain model we're going to operate will more be in the back half of 2014.
But certainly you never hear from us or our presidents any reason to delay the company's top 4 strategic initiatives.
Research Division</strong> But how specifically should we expect the supply chain to be more responsive in the back half then because of these investments? I'd say it's multifaceted we talked about.
So first and foremost it started with fabric.
So we've done fabric consolidations.
That for the most part is done we are now completing fabric platforming.
And then we have without giving too much details probably other people want to call in we have 3 other components which we've put out publicly VMI test and respond and rapid response and those are all ways for the supply chain we have today and the decisions and assortment strategy be made much later in the process.
So when I was talking earlier about the assortment strategy missed opportunity as far as I'm concerned when it came to denim in August and September of this year if we had had in place an operating model that is based on what I just said we could have made adjustments to the assortment strategy in early to mid-spring to correct if we -- as we looked at our assortments you know what we probably need to maybe adjust it slightly.
We could have made those with a responsive supply chain.
So there's a long long list Lindsay of all the benefits we're going to get but #1 is getting closer to the market secondly is dealing directly with mills as opposed to vendors by having private platforming and being able to make decisions later in the process and keeping your powder dry.
And we are all set up to get some initial benefit from that in the back half of 2014.
It's not a onetime win.
It's something that just continues to evolve and we continue to get better at.
And next we'll go to Barbara Wyckoff with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions about China.
Could you talk about the year-to-date results of Gap in China? How are the stores comping? How many do you have at the end of third quarter? And how many of the 160 new stores will be Gap in China versus Old Navy? I think -- did you say 160? Research Division</strong> You said 160 new stores and 80 closures.
Oh sorry.
Research Division</strong> So the 160 would be more International and the closures would be more Gap.
Well [indiscernible] get to that.
Here's what I can say about China.
I was just there 2 weeks ago.
Again we feel very good we're going to end this year with 82 stores which will be give or take 10 outlet stores and the remaining being Gap specialty stores.
I was walking -- our first Old Navy which is going to open on March 1 in Shanghai that was under construction with the team.
We'll be telling you in February how many Old Navys we're going to open in 2014.
But what you're looking at now is the expansion of the strategy from 4 specialty stores initially and an online site to now I'm saying ending the year at 82.
Outlet now becomes part of the picture and here comes Old Navy.
We were really excited recently with what is the -- I'm sure it hit all the newswires here what if the Black Friday of China which is 11/11 a big team-all event and we've been online in China now for over 3 years and that was just another example to us that the mix in that country of physical stores to online business is going to be much different than it is in the U.S.
when the dust settles say 5 years from now.
So that's why we were so passionate on getting our online site open and making big investments as we were saying earlier to Lindsay making investments behind our online site in China because we do believe the proportionality is going to be different in China and we need to be ready for that.
But we feel good about it.
The team is great.
They're excited they're making good decisions.
We're looking forward to -- we'll announce in February how many stores we're going to have Gap specialty but that's going to continue.
How many more outlets? That's going to continue and then give you an update on online and most importantly an update on the launch of Old Navy.
Yes.
And so within the opening number Barbara there's -- 35 of those openings are for Gap China.
There's no Old Navy China this year.
That's going to happen in 2014 and we'll give you that number.
But there's 15 to 20 Old Navy Japan in the opening store counts as well.
From Wells Fargo we'll go to Paul Lejuez.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just looking at the fourth quarter just wondering how you think about the comp drivers for each brand now that it seems like we're probably looking at lower AURs.
Just wondering how confident you feel Glenn that you could hit 8 quarters in a row.
Yes.
I'll just start followed by giving a little bit of color on Q3.
So given that gross margin ticked down clearly our average unit retails were down.
And our traffic largely driven by that stronger dip in September especially at the end of September because traffic improved in October but traffic was also negative for the quarter.
So the 2 levers that supported our positive comp were conversion and unit per transaction.
Because we're assuming the promotional environment continues into Q4 I would say that we'd love to see traffic stronger.
Of course we'll be working on that and we'd love to do -- well we will be doing everything we can to improve our AUR.
But again with the assumption that the promotional environment continues I would say the 2 drivers will continue to be conversion and UPT.
LLC Research Division</strong> And is that across all brands Sabrina or can you maybe separate each one? I would say in general yes.
In general yes.
I mean there's obviously going to be some differences.
But in general for the 3 big brands obviously Athleta is in an entirely different camp given its size and it's a very different brand.
But the 3 other brands I'd say generally yes.
And part of this too Paul would be when the quarter is done is what percent of our business did we actually do on Black Friday and what percent of our business did we do from December 26 to let's say January 10? And it's our -- we know we're going to do big business on Black Friday and Black Friday weekend.
We know there's big business to be had on post-Christmas.
But based on the sort of general theme that's been going on can our product and branding and marketing messages that are less focused on discount can they resonate enough to drive the traffic we need in the conversion side of the business which lessens the dependency on those more discounted times of the quarter.
And that's -- we're -- as I'm sure people have figured out maybe a long time ago maybe people spoke a lot less strategically about retail in general and maybe fashion apparel but anybody else you're talking to in the last couple of years you really got to be thoughtful and strategic when it comes to your gross margin management and traffic management.
Here we are the weekend before Thanksgiving that's a very important time to think through this first weekend.
Then you have a run from Monday to Wednesday.
It's a season within a season.
Thursday now is its own day Friday is its own day.
Saturday and Sunday is a unique pairing.
Then you have this run of 2 or 3 weeks before the weekend before Christmas.
It's its own unique time of year.
Then you have December 26.
So say that we don't spend I would probably say maybe too much time overthinking and doing our analysis and talking to customers and trying to figure out trends is what we're spending more time than -- 5 years ago we never spent this kind of time trying to really figure out day by day and weekend by weekend.
And if we figure it out right and make the right decisions then I think Sabrina is right.
Then we'll probably have a quarter that has less pressure on AUR.
But that's to be determined still.
We've got to -- we're in that first weekend of the run I just talked about.
So -- but if we planned it right and thought through it properly hopefully it'll produce the results -- as Sabrina said it's -- results as Sabrina said we're working towards which is getting improvement in our AUR and that's what everybody here is trying to accomplish.
And next we'll hear from Brian Tunick with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I guess as we try to parse through the prior 6 quarters to this there's been questions of how much the color bottom cycle in particular has been such a big driver I guess especially at the Gap division.
So just wondering if you guys have any comments you could share from an internal perspective of how sticky you think your market share gains might be going forward? And are we going to expect to see ongoing 30% to 40% off the entire store into next year if need be to protect those market share wins? Brian what I was saying a few calls ago was that I thought we did actually a really good job in the first 8 months of the year when we were up against the anniversary-ing of the trend you just referenced.
And I know I've said before that that trend kind of peaked in September of October of LY.
So we've been through this assortment opportunity multiple times.
I just think that's the miss we probably had.
As for market share given the fact that we had the performance we had from February till August especially in those categories I think we didn't only hold our market share we built it.
And there have been some people recently that put out their numbers who are pretty dominant in the denim business.
So I would say that we've continued to gain share based on the performances we've seen.
And our own internal numbers and the external numbers we stare at would indicate that that while the anniversary has been a challenge we've not only held our share but gained on top of what we were able to achieve in 2012.
And moving on from Topeka Capital Markets we'll hear from Dorothy Lakner.
Research Division</strong> Just switching gears a minute just wanted to go back to Athleta.
You have opened lots of stores this year kind of getting up towards that 100-store mark hopefully sometime next year and you've also made some adjustments to the assortments there.
So I'm just wondering if you could share with us anything you're learning as you've moved some of the assortment towards more I guess what I'd call street wear in addition to the great performance wear that you're offering.
How are you thinking about Athleta as you continue to grow the store base? Good for you Dorothy.
That's actually a really good observation.
My challenge with this all the time is not to swing it too quickly.
But yes there -- I would say that part of what you've observed which is absolutely correct was driven as we opened our first stores in New York and realizing that maybe the Northern California aesthetic Of Athleta was a little too much for New Yorkers and some other urban markets we're into.
The challenge for us is not to give up on that.
We bought the business we love Athleta and part of that is that it has a unique aesthetic.
It is what it is.
It's in Northern California and we can't just eradicate that.
But finding a better balance is what you're observing right now.
I'd say that's really worked out well for us.
And I think the team led by Art Peck and Nancy Green have done a great job of opening up let's say the brand aperture a little bit and get people who maybe the previous aesthetic which is not for everybody were willing to accept it and maybe our mix and match that with a wardrobe but just buying exclusively that aesthetic -- or wasn't something that was attractive to as large a customer base as we'd like.
When you expand as many stores as we do also the observation we had to make is if we want to have -- you referenced 100 stores.
If we want to have a business at that level or greater we're going to have to get a bigger tent for customers.
So that's been happening now for about 3 months.
I think the marketing has now followed with it so has the website.
There's more changes coming.
Nothing dramatic just to keep broadening the brand's appeal as you referenced.
How do I feel about it? I feel great.
I really think the team has done a great -- a really strong -- they've done a really strong job of presenting the brand in a different way without moving too quickly.
And so far the customer response has been very positive.
From Sterne Agee we'll hear from Ike Boruchow.
Research Division</strong> I guess Glenn just a high-level question for you on sourcing.
When we start to think about 2014 input cost can you talk about wage inflation in areas like Malaysia and how that could potentially spread to other countries in Asia? And just any high-level thought you have there would be great.
Well it's a little early to tell about one of the larger components of our costing which is the raw materials.
So far cotton and oil are behaving decently well so I think -- we feel good about that and the team that's working upstream.
So part of it is -- are the raw materials going to be in a place that allow us to hold our current costing or even better it? Too soon to tell but I like the direction it has been in the last 3 months.
As I was answering a question earlier some of the changes in our supply chain strategies that have been initiated the last 6 months which is working directly with mills and less with vendors and consolidating fabrics and fabric platforming that should also give us an opportunity to leverage that change with the vendor community.
And you're absolutely right on labor cost.
Some increases in Cambodia in Vietnam in Indonesia.
You referenced Malaysia.
We don't do a lot in Malaysia.
Bangladesh.
So that's a smaller component of our total cost but it's a component.
And that's been going on and we're making the adjustments.
And whether that's by taking more capacity of factories or having fewer vendors we're doing everything we can to manage around it.
But the big win for us is the change in our supply chain.
I think that's going to bring some benefits to us.
The team is working on that and that's something we can't control.
And we know how to manage one way or the other is if commodity costs behave.
And so far so good.
And our last question will come from the line of Richard Jaffe with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Glenn a question for you.
As CEO that is say professionally what would you ask Santa for this year? Well I don't -- I'm a very tough person to buy for.
I will tell you that on a number of different fronts.
But if we could -- if on a personal note if everybody in the office here can have a very happy holiday and get a chance to relax after all the hard work they've done I'd feel good about that.
And of course we always want to make sure that -- and I've always had faith in the consumer.
I'm just a glass half-full person.
I just believe the consumer is more tailwinds than there are headwinds.
And I think they're going to come out and buy.
And if we execute properly then I would consider that to be a very positive Christmas.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I was really thinking professionally as a kind thought for your workers and co-workers and I share that.
So happy holidays.
Let's all get out there and shop early and shop hard.
I'd like to thank everyone for joining us on the call today.
And as a reminder our earnings press release which is available on gapinc.com contains a full recap of our third quarter results as well as the forward-looking guidance included in Sabrina's remarks.
And as always the Investor Relations team will be available after the call for further questions.
Thank you.
Thank you.
That does conclude our conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
My name is Kevin and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Gap Inc.
Fourth Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to introduce your host Katrina O'Connell Vice President of Investor Relations.
Good afternoon everyone.
Welcome to Gap Inc.'s Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
I'd like to remind you that the information made available on this webcast and conference call contains forward-looking statements.
For information on factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements as well as reconciliations or descriptions of measures we're required to reconcile to GAAP financial measures please refer to today's press release as well as our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and our subsequent filings with the SEC all of which are available on gapinc.com.
These forward-looking statements are based on information as of February 27 2014 and we assume no obligation to publicly update or revise our forward-looking statements.
Before we begin I also want to mention that Sabrina will be using slides to supplement her remarks which you can view by going to the Investor Relations section at gapinc.com.
Joining us on the call today are Chairman and CEO Glenn Murphy; and Executive Vice President and CFO Sabrina Simmons.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Glenn.
Thank you Katrina and good afternoon everybody.
The February call is traditionally one that is pretty heavily skewed towards financial information so Sabrina will be coming on in a minute to talk about Q4 '13 results full year results and to give guidance for 2014.
So with that as our backdrop what I want to do is 2 things: I want to take you through what I believe were the accomplishments that Gap Inc.
had in 2013 and then speak to our 4 global strategic priorities for this current fiscal year.
In 2013 we had a number of accomplishments that contributed to our performance of an increase of 18% in earnings per share and some are more culturally based.
The fact that we comped in every quarter we felt good about.
It was a very consistent year.
The numbers had a little bit of variability into them but we comped every single quarter.
While the market numbers are not available just yet we're pretty confident we can say we gained share again for the second year in a row.
We gained share especially in our domestic market of North America.
One of the things I feel good about when I think back on 2013 is culturally the business pivoted towards digital.
This business is building a bridge between its physical stores and the digital world in which we operate.
We know that's the winning strategy for us.
I've been in retail 25 years.
I grew up with the bricks and mortar side of the business.
We have 3 600 stores if you include our Franchise business.
It takes a company like ours a long time to make that mindset shift but in 2013 we made it.
We made it through some of the exciting investments we've made in the digital side of the business.
We've made it through the new team we put into place and that was something so important to the future of our business to get the right balance between our digital and physical messaging to consumers and offerings in those 2 channels.
We launched Reserve in Store and "find in store" in 2013.
Now in 2014 we have to market that strongly and make sure that all customers especially millennials are really aware of this service that we have that nobody else has.
We also demonstrated in 2013 that we continue to have a very flexible economic model.
We saw that in the fourth quarter where when the gross margin dollars in our business are not to the level we'd like them we have the ability through multiple levers in the business to reduce cost and still achieve a very strong performance on operating margin and on earnings per share.
I would actually say in 2013 we found new avenues of cost reduction.
It was a combination between the flexibility in the model and constantly pushing ourselves to find new savings and new ways to get efficiency and productivity in our business.
Our International online business had another very strong year and I mention this for a strategic reason.
We continue to look at what the right balance is of our bricks-and-mortar business to our growing digital business internationally to have this growth.
In Europe in Japan in China there's always going to be a need for a customer to go into a store.
Philosophically and strategically Gap Inc.
believes that.
But finding the balance in our international markets is going to be important where the fleet is not as large as here domestically.
In the China market we opened over 30 stores or more importantly we opened at 4 new cities.
We ended the year in 21 cities which is good coverage for us.
I'm sure everybody knows this stat but it's always worth repeating because it's so striking.
There are 50 cities in China with more than 5 million people so we're not even halfway there yet.
What's important because most people know we've been making a big investment in marketing and brand awareness long term that's how you're going to win in China by having a real brand that people know what it stands for and what it represents.
Our awareness in 2013 hit 70% and that's equal to or above a lot of our international competitors who've been there many years before us.
2013 will be remembered as the year that Old Navy went international.
While we tested a single store in Tokyo in 2012 we now have almost 20 stores in Japan.
And that's opening the door because what happens now as we build the structure and we put the processes in place to have an International business now you just got to layer on countries.
And that's a big part of what Stefan put in place but we are really prepared now in 2014 to take our biggest brand outside of its traditional 2 markets of the United States and Canada.
We opened up our 500th global outlet store in 2013.
I actually finished at 525 plus but we opened our 500th store.
And this is a key tenet to the company strategy multiple channels strong in specialty branded business complemented by this derivative of our specialty business which is our value outlet business and our online business but that 500 stores globally really speaks to the opportunity for us and more international markets to come.
And finally 2013 from the company's perspective as well as my own was the breakout year for Athleta.
It opened 30 stores.
We have 65 stores now.
But by every metric we look at whether that's comp traffic penetration in key markets what the brand stands for the new customer acquisitions it was really a breakout year for Athleta.
That's something to celebrate in a business that has 6 brands 3 that are iconic.
It looks like Athleta is on its path to becoming the fourth iconic brand within Gap Inc.'s portfolio.
As we look at 2014 at Gap Inc.
we're very focused on our 4 global strategic priorities.
Let me talk about our global growth and that starts with our International markets.
And our International markets start with China.
We'll have 30 new stores in the Chinese market 4 new cities in 2014.
That's made up of both specialty stores and outlet stores.
We're looking at making some real investments beyond what we've done the last couple of years in our online business.
We're lining ourselves up with some strategic partners.
We do see the online market and mobile business everything we're doing here domestically is we've seen it in spades in China which lines up so nicely with how we see our business and winning both in digital and physical.
Old Navy opens up in China.
The first store opens on March 1 which is next week.
And we will do another 5 stores on top of -- that store opens in Shanghai next week in 2014.
Then you have Old Navy International outside of China.
We'll open about 25 stores in Japan and we will go to our first franchise market this year in the Philippines.
Our online business will deliver growth to us because day 1 when Old Navy China opens we will open an Old Navy site on that exact same day on March 1.
Same goes for Taiwan the Gap Taiwan online will open up the first day our store opens.
From a growth perspective we'll open up 60 global outlets in 2014.
And lastly we will open somewhere around 30 Athleta stores and get just close to the 100-store mark by the end of the year.
Second big priority for us is on omni-channel and it starts with -- from my perspective it starts with marketing and driving awareness of Reserve in Store and "find in store." As a matter of fact Reserve in Store will be in all Gap stores.
It was only in half the Gap stores at the end of Q4.
Domestically one of the investments we're making -- we're making lots of investments.
It's always about our site.
How could our images look better? How could it be faster? Everything is important to us in online.
But one area we're focusing on is on responsive design and making sure regardless of the device you're on because not all devices are the same how does the messaging and the images to get to the highest level of engagement possible based on how personalized each person's device is.
That's a big investment we're making.
One new investment we're making as part of our omni-channel roadmap is to get into order in store and we'll be doing some pilots in the first half of this year whether that's on a self-service kiosk in our stores or a service component inside which fits to the announcement we made last week about wages.
More and more our store associates full-time part-time managers are being asked to do so much more.
Lots of opportunity on the omni-channel.
Some of the ideas in the U.S.
will migrate to Canada.
We're looking at click and collect in U.K.
which is something that's more appropriate in that market than Reserve in Store is in North America.
And lastly you'll see a lot more personalization in our business.
We're going to operationalize it in this current fiscal year.
That just starts with serving up homepages that matter to people based on their buying decisions historically or trying to make sure that if somebody is more interested in certain categories certain messaging that that personalized homepage happens.
This business is all about engagement.
You're not getting put through you're not maximizing engagement and that's what personalization is about.
Third strategic priority is to build a responsive supply chain model.
2013 that started with a consolidation of our fabrics eliminating lots of fabrics we didn't need.
Now that we have a fabric library that's a lot less than it was the previous year now you can platform those fabrics and we're making huge progress on that.
We went from almost having no fabrics platformed and it's going to be a big difference in our business -- how much product by the end of the year came off a fabric that was platformed in the business.
It's sitting at a vendor ready to go.
It introduces flexibility and speed to an operating model which we didn't have before VMI or vendor-managed inventory.
We made big strides in '13.
We're doing a lot more testing of products.
Test and respond.
You'll see a lot of that.
That's happening right now in our business for fall.
And in the back half we're going to finally introduce rapid response.
That's just having a model which you can react in season.
All of those will come together and we're feeling pretty good about the progress we made.
And lastly we are working to develop a seamless inventory model at Gap Inc.
Responsive supply chain is a change in our supply chain model.
This is the change in how we manage inventory and one example is both in China and Athleta.
In 2014 we will have inventories sitting on the same shelf that can be shipped to a direct customer to their home or to a store.
To me that's the holy grail of seamless inventory and that's where we really can maximize our gross margin dollars.
So we'll be hearing a lot more updates about our vision of this for 2015.
But I do want to inform everybody that we accomplished what we said we're going to accomplish last year.
We have a global label now in all of our businesses.
We have global assortment for each one of our brands and we'll have a global fit by fall.
And that's the foundational tenets of any seamless inventory model.
We're getting those 3 components in place.
Before I hand the call over to Sabrina to take you through the numbers the team here in San Francisco and New York and our offices around the world feel good about our performance in 2013.
It was a good year on top of our performance in 2012.
We are very focused at the beginning of this year on winning on building this bridge between digital and physical on executing these 4 global priorities flawlessly and retaining and attracting the best talent in the industry.
With all that said Sabrina over to you.
Thank you Glenn.
Good afternoon everyone.
Overall we're pleased with our performance in 2013.
We achieved our stated objectives namely growing sales delivering operating margin expansion growing earnings per share and returning excess cash to shareholders.
And we met our goals despite facing significant headwinds from foreign exchange and a shorter fiscal year.
Here are some for full year highlights.
Net sales grew 5% on a constant currency basis as we continued to gain momentum in growing globally through all of our channels especially online which grew 21% for the year.
In line with our strategy our revenue mix shifted to our higher-return channels with online penetration growing 2 percentage points to 14%.
Full year comp sales were positive 2% driven by Gap at positive 3% and Old Navy at positive 2%.
Operating margin expanded 90 basis points to 13.3%.
Earnings per share grew 18% to $2.74 on top of last year's strong 49% growth.
And finally we distributed $1.3 billion of cash to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.
Moving to fourth quarter and full year financial results.
As a reminder both fourth quarter and full year results are negatively impacted by the loss of the 53rd week.
Sales for the fourth quarter were $4.6 billion with comp sales up 1%.
For the full year reported sales were up 3% to $16.1 billion despite the negative translation impact from foreign exchange of about $240 million.
Moving to gross margin.
Fourth quarter gross margin was down 280 basis points to 34.8%.
Merchandise margins were down 220 basis points for the quarter driven by the unusually promotional holiday season.
And as we expected rent and occupancy deleveraged 60 basis points driven by the lack of the 53rd week.
For the full year gross profit dollars grew by 2% to $6.3 billion and gross margin was down 40 basis points to 39%.
Our merchandise margins were down 50 basis points and rent and occupancy leveraged by 10 basis points.
Regarding SG&amp;A.
Our discipline around expense management resulted in fourth quarter total operating expenses of $1.1 billion a reduction of $103 million from the prior year driven by savings in store expenses and overhead as well as the positive impact to expenses from foreign exchange translation and the lack of the 53rd week.
As a percent of sales total operating expenses leveraged by 140 basis points.
For the full year total operating expenses were $4.1 billion down $85 million from last year with the majority of the decline driven by translation of foreign currency.
As a rate to sales SG&amp;A leveraged 130 basis points.
Marketing expenses for the full year were $637 million down $16 million to last year.
The result we're pleased that we grew full year operating income by $207 million and net income by $145 million to nearly $1.3 billion.
Supporting our long-term growth strategies we opened 190 new company-operated stores in 2013 with store growth focused primarily in Asia.
In North America store growth was driven by Athleta.
Our square footage grew by 1%.
Store count and square footage by division are listed in the press release.
Capital expenditures for the full year were $670 million.
Though over half of our capital expenditures was on stores importantly we also continue to invest significantly in strategic areas like omni-channel and supply chain.
Regarding the balance sheet and cash flow inventory dollars per store were up 7% at the end of the fourth quarter in line with our guidance.
And we expect a similar increase in inventory dollars per store at the end of Q1.
For the full year free cash flow was an inflow of over $1 billion and we ended the year with about $1.5 billion in cash.
We distributed $1.3 billion of cash to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends including $134 million on share repurchases in the fourth quarter.
We ended the year with 446 million shares outstanding.
And now I'd like to share our outlook for 2014.
This year we'll continue to pursue a balanced approach to deliver on our goals.
Specifically we'll focus on growing sales with healthy merchandise margins managing our expenses delivering earnings per share growth and as always returning excess cash to shareholders.
However it's important to discuss the impact foreign exchange will have in 2014.
Let's begin with the impact to our goal of growing sales with healthy merchandise margins.
Our objective overall is to deliver modest positive comps on a full year basis.
In addition to our comp base we plan to drive increased revenue through our multiple channels newer brands and geographies.
While comp is reported on a currency-neutral basis our revenues and margins are subject to currency fluctuations.
As a reminder our largest foreign subsidiaries are in Canada and Japan with combined sales in these 2 countries of over $2 billion.
With a continuing depreciation of both those currencies our reported results will be negatively impacted.
There are really 2 separate impacts of foreign exchange: the first is translation and the second is the economic impact to our merchandise margins.
Because we hedge inventory purchases for our foreign subsidiaries 12 to 18 months in advance we were largely shielded from the merchandise margin impact of the depreciating yen in 2013.
However as the old hedge rates lapse and new less favorable hedge rates come on the cost of goods in local currencies will increase for our largest foreign subsidiaries.
As a result though we expect merchandise margins to remain healthy on a constant currency basis on an actual basis merchandise margin expansion will be challenging.
Further based on today's spot rates translation will likely continue to impact us as well.
Having now explained this important dynamic to our merchandise margins and revenues I would now like to turn to earnings per share growth.
We expect reported earnings per share for fiscal year 2014 to be in the range of $2.90 to $2.95.
Our guidance contemplates some of the foreign currency headwinds I just discussed.
At today's spot rates we estimate that the impact from foreign currencies reduces our reported EPS growth rate by 5 full percentage points.
So to be clear at its midpoint our guidance of $2.90 to $2.95 represents EPS growth of 7% on a reported basis which on a constant-currency basis would be 5 percentage points higher than that or a solid double-digit growth rate.
Driven primarily by the foreign currency impact to our merchandise margin we expect operating margins to remain flattish on a reported basis.
Regarding the balance sheet and cash flow we remain very committed to our principle of returning excess cash to shareholders.
Since the inception of our buyback program in 2004 we have repurchased about 630 million shares representing over half of our shares outstanding at an average price of under $21.
Over that same period our free cash flow generation has averaged over $1.1 billion per year and we very consistently distributed that free cash flow to shareholders with distributions averaging over $1.5 billion per year over the same period.
As a reminder we announced a new $1 billion share repurchase authorization in November and we have $966 million remaining on that authorization.
Finally today we announced our intention to increase our dividend by 10% to $0.88 per share.
This represents an increase to our annual dividend per share of more than 75% in just 2 years.
Here's some additional full year guidance metrics.
Regarding company-operated stores we plan to open about 185 and close about 70.
We expect to increase net square footage in 2014 by about 2.5% our largest increase since 2007.
We expect capital expenditures to be about $750 million reflecting continued investment in our strategic goals; and we expect depreciation and amortization to be about $520 million.
And finally we expect our full year effective tax rate to be about 38.5%.
In conclusion we're pleased that we continue to deliver strong financial performance while also making progress against our strategic objectives.
As we enter 2014 we remain focused on a balanced approach to achieving our goals and driving further value for our shareholders.
Thank you.
And now I'll turn it over to Katrina.
Thanks Sabrina.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We'll now open up the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Oliver Chen with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Regarding the guidance going forward and the look forward to the healthy merchandise margin rate what are the main drivers for you to achieve that in your view given that we've come off of a mixed and challenging kind of holiday environment and you guys sailed through it with flying colors? And if you could spend a little just time talking about your assortment planning and your biggest opportunities there in terms of what you see in the marketplace and how you're executing by banner.
Okay great.
I'll start off Oliver.
I would say that our goal as the year progresses is certainly to bring our inventories even more in line with our total sales growth.
So that's number one.
Number two is in the back half we should begin to realize some benefits albeit modest.
But we definitely should begin to realize some benefits from our supply chain initiatives that we've been talking about for some time like fabric platforming as well as vendor-managed inventory.
So that together with what we believe will be solid assortments is why we feel that delivering underlying healthy merchandise margins is certainly realistic for us.
And I'll turn it over to Glenn.
On the assortment planning I'd say there's 2 -- I will not go in brand by brand.
There's 2 changes one that applies to Gap and Banana Republic you'll see our assortment become much more global.
So this is the balance that the business has to strike.
If you're going to have a global label and a global fit then what follows that is more global assortment.
So the change there is that our local teams will be more involved in buying depth of differentiation as opposed to breadth of assortment.
That's a pretty big change for us.
And actually from my perspective it simplifies the business.
It makes it faster.
It provides more continuity across all of our stores of Gap in our 50-odd countries; and Banana Republic in close to 30 countries.
And the reason I don't mention Old Navy is that Old Navy just added Japan just about 18 months ago and Old Navy started off with a global assortment global label and a global fit.
And the second thing I'd add is that in order to really get the full value that a responsive supply chain the assortment mix has to shift somewhat when we do our assortment mix what's right for customers and how do we make sure it supports the brand and what the brand stands for and how do we gain share but also the mix can change a little bit towards longer-living styles.
So more styles that last 52 weeks.
Now within that style you can have a change in color.
You can have a change in print.
You can even have a small change in the style itself.
But in general using the fabric platforming more longer-living styles 52-week styles more styles will last 24 weeks and then you'd have a few percentage-wise a little less on the 12 week or less.
And these are nuances.
We're not talking about 10 full percentage point changes but nuances that fit with the response in supply chain needs the company has.
Our next question will come from Lorraine Hutchinson with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> It's Paul Alexander for Lorraine.
Guys can you just tell us a little bit about how you're thinking about the environment in 2014? As Oliver just said we're coming off of a very promotional holiday and fall.
But do you feel like things are getting better in that regard? And you do you think recent weakness in the mall is temporary like that or perhaps something more secular? And how does that impact how you're planning inventory and promotions for 2014? I'd definitely say the mall traffic for a number of years if that -- has been slowing down.
If that's the definition of secular then we're definitely preparing for mall traffic to not robustly turn back upwards all of a sudden.
So whether it continues to decline somewhat over time I think that's realistic to assume.
But that's part of our thinking of the omni-channel work we're doing.
And the question for us we don't have just yet -- was early indications but they're not worth commenting on until we have more and more evidence.
But we're -- as I said in my opening comments this notion of getting people's eyeballs which is greater than 50% of the engagement in our brands right now start on a smartphone or an iPad or a desktop how do you get that customer getting them into the physical store and that's that bridge between digital and physical.
And Reserve in Store is one of the tools to make that happen.
Now we're only one player in the mall.
So one set of brands or portfolio of brands with one tool called Reserve in Store is not necessarily strong enough to change the overall shift that's going on in frequency of visits or mall traffic.
But for us personally we're doing it because we have a category that people at the end of the day they want to buy it in the store.
And absolutely people buy our category and our brands online but the vast majority of that number really hasn't changed in 5 years would prefer to get engaged online and even bring their smartphone into the store so they can get into social media while shopping our store.
But they want to buy the product they want to have the shopping experience inside the store that involves fitting room service looking at different choices so there's digital bridge of the digital environment in which we continue to invest in and our physical stores is critical for us.
The promotional environment I think I kind of answered this the same time for the last 5 or 6 years I mean the environment has been promotional since 2008.
There was promotions in 2007 but it picked up in 2008.
Our way of dealing with that is we have a very strong outlet business.
We have a very strong brand in Old Navy that are really are value brands.
And we got to continue as a business to be innovative and creative and bring reasons for people to engage in our brands either online or in our stores that are not rooted in promotions and discounts with the frequency in which they're rooted in today.
And sometimes we do that very well but in general I think that's a huge opportunity for us and one that our brand presidents are very focused on in 2014.
Our next question comes from the line of Kimberly Greenberger with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I'm wondering Sabrina you mentioned that you found some let's say an unlock and additional SG&amp;A savings opportunities in the back half of the year.
Can you just help us understand where those came from? And I'm not expecting the same challenges necessarily to persist in the second half of the year here in 2014.
But if they did do you have incremental opportunities beyond the SG&amp;A savings you secured last year? Yes sure.
Kimberly for the most part I think you've seen us pretty consistently show a lot of discipline and flexibility around our expense structure.
And that's because over 50% of our expenses are store-related and then over 50% of that is variable.
So we know how to sort of flex our expense structure quite nimbly I'm proud to say.
With regard to the end of this year I mean for the back half in total of course we benefited from the lack of the 53rd week.
So expenses would naturally some portion of them will just be down.
We also benefited from the translation of expenses from foreign currencies coming in less.
But we did in fact for sure have old-fashioned discipline around store expenses were a big lever in that.
Because again they're largely variable.
And then secondly our overheads in total we also experienced quite a bit of good discipline around that.
Looking forward into 2014 it is always our goal to remain disciplined and try and leverage expenses.
If we achieve our goal of course of increasing revenues and delivering modest positive comps we would expect our expenses to increase on a nominal basis but always leveraged.
And we'll use many levers within that large expense area in order to deliver that.
What I will say is it's likely -- given that we just delivered 130 basis points of leverage in 2013 it's likely that our 2014 leverage won't be quite as large.
We guided to reported operating margins being about flattish and so that's why you probably wouldn't expect quite as much leverage.
And but yet we will still be very very focused on it.
Our next question will come from Adrienne Tennant with Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Glenn I was wondering if you can give us some more color on the analysis that went behind the decision to raise minimum wage to $9 this year and then $10 in the out-year.
And is that in effect right as of -- as we speak? Or is that going to be in effect? And if so at what point in time? And along with that are -- is there additional training or responsibilities that accompany those higher wages? Well the analysis was -- it was fairly extensive.
It was more -- what we said in our releases on Wednesday was a strategic decision that we were looking at for a period of time and that was a little bit grounded in the launch of Reserve in Store back in November of last year.
And staring at our roadmap and I just mentioned on the call that we're looking at order in store we're looking at other initiatives that are going to support the omni-channel roadmap for the company.
So as we look at all those initiatives start off with "ship from store " "find in store" is really dependent on store associates explaining that to customers selling that comments [ph] that benefit that Reserve in Store is step-up above that.
Order in store is another step.
So the management team we sat back talked to the brand presidents and we just came to realize that in spite of what other people may be thinking about stores and their future we're actually looking at the role of store is going to incrementally increase as more and more of these initiatives and these ideas and these convenient services get provided to customers.
In terms of the economics we have always changed our rate of pay in June of every year.
So the $9 for 2014 is going to start in June of 2014 and the $10 will be effective in June of 2015.
And our next question comes from the line of Simeon Siegel with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering if you could parse out the strength of the online business.
Were there particular areas of strength there by geography or concept? And then just out of curiosity when you report the online sales does that include the omni-channel purchases? I'll answer the -- well I know the answer to both but yes to the second one.
But the first part I mentioned in the opening comments we've been very pleased with our International growth when it comes to online.
And now that we're into multiple years it's really -- it's not only the growth but it's the penetration to our total store sales.
And so good -- very good numbers in the U.K.
Although we have the service in France and Italy as well for our other European stores.
But very strong in the U.K.
continue to be strong in Canada -- it's been strong in Canada for 3.5 years now since we've launched it.
We're in Japan just about a year now which is a "ship from store" model which we're going to move to ship from distribution center but penetration is really beyond what we thought it was going to be.
And we've opened in China day 1 in November of 2010 with our stores.
We did a test.
Now which I'd like to see us roll out but I'll be talking to our Head of Franchise for Gap this weekend.
But we did a test in our Turkey franchise market where again that was a ship from their distribution center.
It's a turnkey online that we brought to them and we feel very good about the results so far.
So -- I'm sure all of our franchisees knowing that the corporate market strategy for us is this multi-channel multi-brand approach.
And I've talked to a lot of our franchisees and they're also interested in the specialty stores which they all have now moving quickly.
If this Turkey test continues to go where it's going right now moving that to the other franchise markets and looking at outlet stores.
So International market is very strong and no real need to report anything by brand.
I think we've been pleased with all business performance by brand except for maybe a little bit stronger than we thought it was going to be in 2013 with Athleta.
And the reason behind that is when you take a fleet from 35 to 65 even though our strategy is to not have a level of cannibalization in our online business we've been pleased about how strong their online business continues to be with Athleta as we add the physical presence to that brand.
And just to underscore what Glenn said the revenue is booked where the transaction takes place.
So our "ship from store" sales because they're made online they're all booked as part of the online sales.
And those have been robust especially as we brought more of our fleet on to "ship from store" and has certainly helped our growth rate online this year as well.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just quickly Glenn to your points about the opportunity to improve the promotional dependence do you see opportunity on the AUR front this year? Or to your point of about the healthy merch margin is that much more sourcing I guess Sabrina? I think we look at it this way.
We look at -- there's a number of initiatives that I talked about in the opening call.
One of the ones worth highlighting was responsive supply chain.
And the purpose behind that is customer first.
So when we talk about AURs it's really about top line growth.
And that could be driven by AUR.
But what we're really looking for is through a responsive supply chain and I covered it off at the beginning and Sabrina added some color behind in her comments.
I think that is a path to get better top line growth which is then better market share growth.
And we believe that one of the metrics that will drive that top line in the back half when responsive supply chain starts to kick in should be some improvement in AUR.
And that's what our brand presidents are accountable for and that's what they're executing towards for the back half of '14.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Matt McClintock with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Glenn I was wondering if you could focus a little bit more on your earlier comments on personalization.
It seems like that has been an idea that's been talked about in the industry for several years now but always seemed longer term in nature.
I was just wondering if now with -- 2014 might be the year that we start to see meaningful impact on your business from personalization.
And how should we think about the growth in the development of that capability relative to other omni-channel capabilities that you have such as "ship from store " Reserve in Store which you rolled out pretty quickly? Let's say Matt that it's on the roadmap that we have.
2012 was really the beginning of "ship from store." And I said we're now looking at in Q2 to start to put into our stores the capability of order from store and that could be -- that can be a do it on your own.
That could be a self-order from store whether that's through some kind of kiosk we're going to put in.
But we've been testing a lot of different tools or whether that's actually with the aid of the service.
That's the reason why the wage strategy is so important.
Personalization we've really only been working on for the last 3 months and there isn't a day that goes by that we're not testing a personalization idea on the web.
Now it's -- we've been big fans for a long long time getting away from this macro approach to consumer communication and getting into person casting and we have the data and we've been fortunate given our geographical location to really put investments that are -- were in our P&amp;L in 2012 were in our P&amp;L in 2013 to build the big data environment we need in order for personalization to begin on the web first and foremost that's serving up web pages with the goal of getting a higher click-through.
And that could be by category.
That could be by certain promotions.
Customers historically have reacted better than other customers.
And I think it's the -- not to use the bridge analogy again -- I think it's a stepping stone to loyalty.
And that's what everybody wants.
Again it's our definition of loyalty.
This is not -- loyalty is sometimes seen in different sectors where for you you pay $0.99 you have a card you pay $0.79.
I think that's a historical loyalty program.
But it's really looking at how personalization could then help unlock how we truly get to a loyalty play by customers and to this goal of person casting.
Testing's been going well.
We've been impressed with numbers.
I mean it's -- when you think about it how many eyeballs we see per week on our homepages and we're serving up excluding the test we do on a daily basis it's the same homepage to completely different people.
So different -- I mean we have to look at it differently for new customers versus lapsed customers versus existing customers versus people with high frequency low frequency.
We have all that information.
So we've an amazing team downstairs.
I've been very impressed with the results I see every month on the testing they've been doing.
I'm not looking for much in the first half but I think as the testing continues to grow we can figure out exactly what the driver is click-through which gets the conversion which gets to higher sales which therefore leads to market share.
I think in the second half it's something we're not talking about right now maybe a little bit more at our Analyst Meeting hearing it from Art Peck and members of his team.
And I think that there's something there in the back half that can provide some real value to the company.
And our next question will come from Paul Lejuez with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Glenn as you think about all the ways that you're growing the business these days what are your current hurdle rates that you set for the company from a returns perspective? And then I'm just wondering can you rank which projects you believe will be generating the highest returns? Will they be Gap China Old Navy Japan or China Athleta in the U.S.? Just wondering how you're thinking about where the real high-return projects are.
Yes.
I'll start Paul with that.
So Glenn and I obviously work very closely and spend a lot of time on capital allocation.
Our starting point is to sort of look at our long-term weighted-average cost of capital and our hurdle rates are going to be several points above our weighted-average cost of capital.
Because projects we approve we want to make sure even if they have some variability to their pro formas that they're going to deliver for us.
So we have pretty high bars with regard to returns.
And then with regard to our priorities that's precisely how we set them is we look at the ranking of the various business cases and geographies that come to us.
But importantly we take a long-term view.
Or certainly you would never have launched something like China which is going to provide us with an enormous runway in the long term especially in terms of revenue.
It already is contributing significantly to revenue but takes a longer time to return because of the uniqueness of the market and the infrastructure needs.
So there is a lot of discipline internally around looking at returns and prioritizing our initiatives around them.
And I'd say in some kind of order and I think this is being repetitive Paul from maybe a few calls ago our Franchise business has the highest return and will continue.
And that's why you see Old Navy are going to do 5 to 6 stores in the Philippines in 2014 and that's the beginning of the Old Navy franchise rollout.
It takes almost no capital from us a very small amount.
But the returns have been phenomenal and that -- it's a -- we always try to -- to build on what Sabrina said we'll try to look at capital holistically and we try to look at every year as a pool of capital like this year and what are the right decisions for the company strategically but then how do we make those calls to get a good blended capital? Franchise global outlet and factory stores global online.
That's why my opening comments talking about these very strong growth rates in the U.K.
in Canada in Japan in China with not a lot of investment but yes an investment that's returning multiple times over.
Then I'd say from a brand perspective yet to be proven but if you're just asking me sitting here today what do I think we're going to feel really good about in the next 2 3 4 5 years to come it's going to be Old Navy International.
I think that that business -- if we go into the right countries as we have in Japan as we will in China and then the Franchise business the real estate opportunity in those countries we can get really a percentage rent that's super attractive and get sales per foot better than we get in North America and get an economic model that I really think we can have where the percent of business on promo and the depth of discount is not as large.
I think that business has the potential assuming we execute and that Stefan and his International team stay on that business and its true potential I think that really has great return for us.
Two other projects I mentioned upfront that are not growth-based omni-channel which have a very good return on capital for us; and seamless inventory when it gets going in the latter part of 2015.
Our next question comes from the line of John Morris with BMO Capital Markets.
Glenn can you give us a quick holiday postmortem x weather and mall traffic what could you have done better so we can set our sights on opportunities for next year? And then also just a quick follow-up on Athleta the growth there really meaningful now approaching 100 stores by the end of the year.
So beyond your previous remarks share with us the performance there.
Is it balanced regionally? What are the strengths and challenges? Yes.
John the holiday question that -- we could be on here for a long time.
I mean there isn't a holiday or actually any month that goes by where I don't think the company's trying to learn what could we have done better.
We came out of Thanksgiving and realized that December was not likely going to play out as we'd planned many many months ahead of time.
So it became a little bit more with some traditional ways of communicating and engaging customers and trying to get them either in stores online and get the conversion in our business to produce the one comp we had.
Look I think holiday has changed and we need to look at it differently.
So we've had -- to say we've had multiple meetings would be an understatement since the 1st of January for all of our businesses.
This is the benefit of having a portfolio is how does Old Navy approach it? How does online Banana Republic and Gap in particular how do they approach the holiday business for the benefit of Gap Inc.? So there's some lessons where it starts earlier.
There's been -- there's lots of ways in which we looked at it and said if we could do it again what we'd do differently? It all starts with product.
And I think that I would just say from my perspective just to give you one lesson it wasn't at the top of my list but it's probably one I can say on the phone is that as you move into December and more and more people are looking at gifting as opposed to self-purchasing that our industry and us in particular really don't offer as much gifting choice as we should.
And I think that's a design issue.
That's a merchant issue.
That's a marketing issue.
But that was a clear lesson that the whole business looked at as we are all in stores all looking at our online whether it's on an iPad every night and putting ourselves in the shoes of customers coming in on December 12.
But again whether you're -- when you're on your smartphone or in our store what are you looking for? Did we offer that? Did we sell it? Did we market it? And personally I was disappointed.
We had a one comp and I'm sure that gain share relative to everybody else.
We should have done a lot better and that's one of a number of lessons.
We're very happy with Athleta.
It's not often we single it out and maybe it's a little optimistic of us or me in this case to call it the fourth iconic brand within our portfolio sooner rather than later.
But I've been -- I was very impressed with our performance in 2013.
We have some new leadership and they made some very good decisions.
I think the trends in the marketplace when it comes to women and when it comes to performance and fashion and how they're dressing in general and the products in which we offer and the changes in which we are making they just seem to fit hand in glove.
And this is a brand that's resonating for a lot of different reasons.
But as you suggest getting to 100 stores it starts becoming a more serious business for us.
And we haven't had conversions yet about International.
This is just -- we have a 100-store plan coming out.
It's very strong online.
It's gaining in terms of consumer awareness and acceptability and I think in the profile of the age of our customers has changed in 2013.
So very good team very focused it's a great brand and the business is we're -- couldn't be any happier with the acquisition and looking forward to 2014.
And our next question will come from Omar Saad with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> You guys talked about I think 2.5% square footage growth.
I think that you've mentioned the highest rates since '07.
I know a lot is coming internationally.
What's really giving you the confidence overseas? Is there an inflection in the brand awareness? I know you threw some numbers out on China? Are you going to require greater levels of marketing just to enhance the brand awareness in some of these new markets? It seems like a pretty big inflection.
Well I would look at it a number of different ways.
If you just look at international markets we'll open at least between 70 and 80 franchise stores in 2014.
So that's a little bit of Old Navy coming in but filling into just in countries -- introducing new countries.
We understand the franchise market really well and that's leading with Gap following Banana Republic.
And Gap has very strong awareness around the world and we only put disproportionate amount of capital when the awareness is below a certain threshold we find acceptable.
Then I -- if you start in some kind of order our global outlet business continues to be really strong a little bit domestically but really filling in in international markets.
It's the only investments we're really making in Europe right now.
We're happy with our specialty fleet.
We've closed what we needed to close in the U.K.
We had the right store fleet in France.
We're just on hold in Italy waiting to make sure we get clarity on the economy and the marketplace.
But we continue to fill in with a global outlet.
So there in Japan and China I think that's sort of the first area where we're putting money.
And then here comes China for Gap specialty.
And look what we -- Sabrina said earlier we have treated China in a different way than we treated any other country and we continue to make investments in marketing that are appropriate because the long-term benefit to anybody going to China is to really establish a strong brand and a bond with the Chinese consumer.
And communication and standing for something that's important everywhere in the world.
But it's particularly important to newer brands.
We've only been there 3 years in a country like China.
So there's some capital going there and then Old Navy International.
And Athleta I just finished answering John's question about the extra 30 to 35 stores for Athleta in the U.S.
So that is an easy decision Athleta.
And Asia is a for us at least with our brands and the introduction of Old Navy also are easy decisions.
Now some people we compete against opened 400 450 stores in countries and that's their decision.
We are much more thoughtful we have a different approach.
There's 190 corporate stores plus the 70 to 80 franchise stores call it 260 to 270 total stores that's a very good year.
It's almost a store a day.
So we're really happy with that amount of presence and investment.
But don't forget this a business that has a 2-dimensional strategy and the other part of that is online.
So while the store fleet investment that I just described makes sense we're also not going to end up having the number of stores in any of those markets into the -- on a per-capita basis like we have in the U.S.
The online day 1 opening it up and it's a different customer in 2014 in China than it was in 1994 in the U.S.
That two-prong approach is so important to us and it allows us to do the number of stores I described and we don't have the need to do 400 or 450 stores because we can get the volume and the return and be current with our digital strategy.
And then briefly on the marketing side we haven't said anything explicitly about '14.
But I think 2013 is good evidence that we were growing internationally while we held our marketing dollars.
We actually brought them down slightly from 2012.
So I think that we're holding to the discipline that our marketing levels are very healthy and we can look to reallocate and reinvest in those areas that are going to support our future growth the most.
Our next question will come from Brian Tunick with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I guess Glenn we haven't really talked about merchandising at all and you guys are still an apparel retailer.
So just wondering as you have a cohesive team now maybe for Gap and Old Navy can you talk about which categories you see as opportunity to drive the business in 2014? Are there any big businesses out there you're excited about to rebuild productivity at both Gap and Old Navy? And for Sabrina 2013 I guess you ended the real estate cleanup process.
So wondering what kind of store comp you need domestically to get ROD leverage going forward? Thanks Brian.
We -- look we'll answer any questions if somebody wants to ask about product or merchandising I mean we're only as good as the questions we're asked.
So from a category perspective on Gap not a big change.
But I would say that the team is focused on a couple of areas.
One we've seen a change and a shift in our Baby business and -- not at the expense of Kids but more powerful Baby business than Kids.
And I think you're seeing that team that we have in New York under Rebekka's leadership putting some investments whether that's in new categories or that's just in the inventory going out.
I think the Baby business is going to play a much more prominent role in Gap brand going forward.
So that's a merchandising change for sure.
And the other one and this has nothing to do with Athleta I'm sure the Gap team would have landed there themselves but as the -- as more and more trends start to push women in particular towards street attire we start looking at the balance between the athletic part of our business and the going-out part of the business and sort of the -- as a lot of people have been talking about this is the new denim.
Well Gap is very well situated with its Gap Fit product as the foundational product to build into this new trend that's going on in the marketplace.
So if you go to any of our stores you'll see that business being pulled out of Gap Body's traditional space in the store and brought more and more closer to the front of the store.
And I think that trend that's going on that fits with Gap and its American casual style and how women are dressing especially millennials I think you'll see some merchandising changes in that part of the business when it comes to Gap.
At Old Navy it's tough to sort of choose one over the other.
I'd say that they've been a little less pleased with their men's business the last little bit and realizing that they're making some changes in that area not only in merchandise and I'd say in marketing in-store visuals.
That's something that our customers should be looking for very clearly and the other part in that business is they do so well in denim.
And the Rockstar was a big launch for them a couple of years ago and really elevated their overall positioning on denim.
You'll see something next week and that's just the start but you'll see Old Navy getting in and trying to establish their pants business for women's which is -- we're in the bottoms business as a total company.
That's true of all brands: Banana Republic Gap and Old Navy.
But from a merchandising perspective I think the second complementary investment of marketing and product and inventory and location store and space on the website for pants casual pants is going to be a really big play for Old Navy in 2014.
There's a bunch of other puts and takes and I can say the same thing with Banana Republic but all of them come in to every season and every year based on strategically where they want to gain share where they see an opportunity does that fit with the position of the brand and those are just a couple of examples for Gap and Old Navy.
Yes.
And then with regard to rent and occupancy it's a great question Brian.
To leverage rent and occupancy we definitely need positive comps.
And I think for one of the reasons you mentioned the leverage in our future will probably be more modest than it was in the past.
And there's really 2 reasons.
One is what you mentioned that we have a lot of the cleanup of the North America optimization behind us.
And that in past years really while we were closing a lot of unproductive square footage helped us leverage quite a bit a broad per point of positive comps.
Secondly while we remain focused on leveraging ROD within every country as we enter some of these International markets the rent per square foot generally is higher than it is in North America.
So when you look at the mix growing that way all in it's a little bit of a headwind to leveraging ROD.
So we still feel good about leveraging on a positive comp but the amount of leverage for each positive comp point will likely be more modest in the future.
And our final question today will come from Lindsay Drucker Mann with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on Sabrina the discussion about underlying x some of the currency issues some healthy merch margin behavior can you talk about how much of that is AUC based on some of the fabric platforming and other initiatives versus less markdown focus and where you think that's really come from? And maybe just give us an explicit AUC outlook for the full year.
Yes it's a good question.
I think that the broad answer Lindsay is we're looking to get improvement in both areas AUC and AUR as the year progresses.
So we're not giving any explicit guidance on AUC.
It hasn't been a headline either way in 2013 nor do we expect it to be any dramatic swings that would have it be featuring as a headline in 2014.
But as I said as the year progresses and we start to see benefits from tools like fabric platforming that -- as we consolidate fabrics and continue to negotiate with our vendors that certainly it's rational to believe that that should bring us some costing benefit more in the back half as we implement that to a higher degree than in the front half.
And then -- and I think as Glenn explained in an earlier Q&amp;A because of these supply chain tools we should actually be able to do better in terms of assorting what we put into the stores and get a higher probability whether it comes from a true reg [ph] or less of a markdown margin any of the combination of those will take.
But certainly we believe the tools in place are increasing our probability of getting better yields on the product we assort to.
Research Division</strong> And just to follow up on the seamless inventory comment Glenn I think you talked about seamless inventory being in place for fiscal '15 but I know you have "ship from store" capability in the U.S.
and have already -- or North America and have already started to prosecute that.
Where are you in how nimble you are with your inventories in-store and the ability to service adeptly online demand versus in-store demand? How much more of an unlock is there from an inventory turn and efficiency perspective? Lindsay I'd say that we're "ship from store" enabled in every store.
And the issue is that -- is how many orders do they -- does each store receive on "ship from store." So we've gone from thinking of it and -- let me just step up for a second.
You're right the "ship from store" was the precursor that opened up the thinking in the strategic decision to go with seamless inventory.
Now back to where we in "ship from store." Start off as satisfying customer unmet demand online that we thought was at a higher service level but it turned out to be based on the fact we operated only 2 DCs for our online business versus the stores that serve our customers in our stores.
That's how it started.
And then we got benefit from achieving a higher service level for online customers by exposing all of our store inventory to that unmet demand online.
And then it's graduated now to what is the yield management benefit of "ship from store." So right now when there's demand that comes online could that be directed -- even if the inventory is available in the distribution center could that be directed to less productive markets or less productive stores where we have a history or we currently know that that ultimate AUR is going to be below -- significantly below where we're currently the consumer is demanding and willing to pay on an online order? So the sophistication has changed and that's a little bit in place in Q1 but more will be rolled out.
And it's just our view of going -- let's just expose our inventory in a seamless way and let it go to the highest AUR we can get.
And if that's online and it's in the store net of a shipping cost is that better gross margin for the business.
And the reason that this is that markets can perform differently as some people are experiencing in December and January.
That can happen.
It can also happen that stores because of their physical size have an assortment that is a little different for that store it's not -- even though our stores have been rightsized they're still not all perfect.
And there's a history where that store has a lower gross margin than another store.
So that's just turned that demand to where the biggest opportunity is and pull that inventory out.
And the second thing we're doing is on seasonal changes like when you go from outerwear in December to an assortment change in January the liquidation of inventory in January in certain stores can be very expensive.
All of -- people in our business have units below cost.
But the demand online is a lot less seasonal.
It's amazing how much outerwear we sell online in January December and March -- sorry January February March relative to what we sell in the store.
So keeping that item alive online at a very attractive price and then using that demand let's say in the third week in January but directed to a store before that inventory goes to a price below cost which can happen in the apparel business then you can as they say you can pull an arbitrage on the gross margin and sell it for a much higher AUR online.
So it's this constant evolution of how we're thinking about "ship from store." And the reason that seamless inventory is such a big priority for us it is about opening up our perspective of inventory and let it go to the highest gross margin dollar per unit in a country in a distribution center geographically and in the store.
And then when you open that all up the opportunity for us in 2015 "ship from store" is one small component of the eventual strategy on seamless inventory.
Great.
I'd like to thank everyone for joining us on the call today.
And as a reminder our earnings press release which is available on gapinc.com contains a full recap of our fourth quarter results as well as the forward-looking guidance included in our prepared remarks.
And as always the Investor Relations team will be available after the call for further questions.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
My name is Stephanie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Gap Inc.
First Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
For those analysts who wish to participate in a question-and-answer session after the presentation.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder please limit your questions to one per participants.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to introduce your host Katrina O'Connell Vice President of Investor Relations.
Good afternoon everyone.
Welcome to Gap Inc.'s first quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
I'd like to remind you that the information made available on this webcast and conference call contains forward-looking statements.
For information on factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements as well as reconciliations or descriptions of measures we're required to reconcile to GAAP financial measures please refer to today's press release as well as our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and our subsequent filings with the SEC all of which are available on gapinc.com.
These forward-looking statements are based on information as of May 22 2014 and we assume no obligation to publicly update or revise our forward-looking statements.
Before we begin I also want to mention that Sabrina will be using slides to supplement her remarks which you can view by going to the Investor Relations section at gapinc.com.
Joining us on the call today are Chairman and CEO Glenn Murphy; and Executive Vice President and CFO Sabrina Simmons.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Glenn.
Thank you Katrina and good afternoon everybody.
Before I hand the call over Sabrina who will take you through Gap Inc.s first quarter financial performance I thought Id give you my thoughts on Q1 and also remind everybody on the call of Gap Inc.s four global priorities.
Everybody here was actually pretty disappointed in our earnings results for the quarter.
We were below last year and that hasnt happened to us since the first quarter of 2011 and that was driven by the cotton crisis.
So in spite of the fact that the operating conditions were challenging especially in the first half of the quarter I expect that we would do better.
Now upon reflection we have been doing this now for the last number of weeks looking at the business because our business is all about continuous improvement and what we are going to do to move our business in the right direction.
The product was a little too spring forward and thats something thats in our control.
I think our customer communications could have been better thats also something in our control and our margin management I really thought the team could have done a better job working through inventory we had especially as they backed up after the month of February and we could have done a better job managing our margins in the quarter as well.
All three of those points are completely in our control in areas that the business has embraced and are making the necessary changes as we come into Q2.
With that said I think we have pretty good plans across the business in the second quarter.
We are in the business to gain share and our goal is gaining share in the second quarter third quarter and fourth quarter to finish the year strongly.
When I look at the business Old Navy is the one brand thats furthest along.
I think that they have made some really good decisions and thats evidenced by their performance in April which was a plus 18 comp and thats pretty strong.
They made some really good decisions on their assortment thats rooted in fashion essentials and I like what I am seeing as they evolve and improve their assortment between now and the end of the year.
And when I think of their marketing going forward I like what the team has done they got a really good creative platform right now at Old Navy I think its going to be -- even more compelling as we move through the year and more aggressive and the Old Navy team is revamping their whole online site which you will see next month.
So I think their digital presence will be even stronger going forward.
Now Banana Republic the good news in that business is that womens has turned the corner seems like thats been a long journey but we havent gone in the right direction and customers will truly notice the difference in our August delivery and everybody in that team and myself are pretty excited about that.
Marissa Webb joined Banana Republics starting in the 1st of May.
Now Marissas impact on product is not going to be felt immediately but seeing as how she is our creative director who impact on our messaging and the voice to the customer whether its on social or in other tools we felt around the same time as you see this lift and this improvement in our womens product in August.
Gap is definitely heading the right direction but still has work to do.
Steve and the team know that.
What Im looking forward to with them is they are moving to full global assortment in August of this year that's across the business.
It's a complete change from where -- how we assort today and how we do that globally.
And I think thats going to really help their business go out and different themselves and gain share.
And coincidently with that we will be the first campaign we are gone have globally from our new ad agency Wieden &amp; Kennedy for Gap.
Now as I promised at the beginning of the call I want to give you an update on Gap Inc.s global priorities.
They are global growth omni-channel responsive supply chain and seamless inventory.
I spent quite a bit of time at the recent Analyst Meeting explaining to everybody why we choose these initiatives and the value we are going to create for Gap Inc.
shareholders going forward as each one of these become part of how we operate every single day.
I feel good about the value creation and as you look at each one of them the global growth initiative 250 new stores this year thats a combination of corporate and franchise thats a high watermark for us.
So far so good in China still good performance comp performance and new stores going into that marketplace 20 new cities in 2014 Old Navy performance so far in the franchise market and Philippines has been very good excited about what we are seeing in Shanghai with the first Old Navy store opening.
And early news is that in the last 30 days we have added five new Athleta stores to our planned list and our guidance and now we are going to open 35 Athleta stores in 2014 which will allows us to end the year with 100 Athleta stores.
On the omni-channel front Reserve in Store has been rolled out to 500 Gap stores that just started a few weeks ago.
So now on top of those 500 Gap stores and 400 Banana Republic stores.
The marketing just started behind that to start telling customers because if anybody tries it loves it.
And our goal is to get awareness and trial behind it and we will be piloting next month Order in Store.
If you look at the apparel business there is a conversion number and then there is customers who come in and dont convert.
And the portion of the customers who dont convert its because they couldnt find their size couldnt find their color couldnt find exactly what they are looking for.
So this pilot is digital its quick and our employees are going to carry that with them on the floor to close the sale.
And lastly on responsive supply chain weve had meetings Sabrina and myself the last 30 days to get updates with each one of the brands really good momentum.
There will be some benefit to our operating margin in 2014 in the back half and will really benefit 2015.
So the momentum is moving in the right direction.
Now I want to close by telling everybody were still very confident here.
We mentioned that last month that were confident in our full year guidance.
Were committed to our full year guidance.
So if you allow me just a little history lesson in 2008 and 2009 during the depths of recession we did better than pretty much any other retailer by managing our P&amp;L managing our cost during difficult consumer times.
In 2010 when conditions got little better we had a very strong top line and we hit a record operating margin in 2010.
2011 when the cotton crisis hit that was not our best year.
We bounced right back in 2012 and 13.
There were some operating condition challenges in the first quarter of 2014.
So given the character of the company and how committed we are to delivering on our promises to one another and to shareholders I have all the confidence were going to bounce back in Q2 and beyond and deliver on the guidance we put forward for 2014.
So that said let me hand it over to Sabrina.
Thank you Glenn.
Good afternoon everyone.
Despite a challenging start to the quarter we continue to focus on levers that drive long-term value.
We made progress on our strategic initiative including launching Old Navy in China Gap in Taiwan and opening additional Athleta stores and we did this while maintaining our operating expense discipline.
Regarding earnings for the quarter in the first quarter operating income was $443 million versus $530 million last year.
Net earnings were $260 million and earnings per share were $0.58 versus $0.71 last year.
And as a reminder we were lapping $0.04 of benefit to last year from the favorable resolution of tax issues.
Additionally we estimate that the impact from foreign currencies reduced our reported EPS growth rate in Q1 by about 5 percentage points.
Sales for the first quarter were $3.8 billion up 1%.
Comp sales were down 1% for the quarter.
The translation of foreign revenues into dollars negatively impacted our reported net sales by about $20 million in the first quarter.
On a constant currency basis net sales were up 2%.
Total sales and comps by division are listed in our press release.
Moving to gross margin.
First quarter gross margin was down 260 basis points to 38.8%.
Merchandise margins were down 230 basis points for the quarter driven by a challenging February and March which put pressure on our ability to move as many units early in the quarter.
Importantly we did end the quarter with inventory in line with our guidance.
Rents and occupancy deleveraged 30 basis points.
As a reminder we need positive comps to leverage rents and occupancy.
And the threshold for ROD leverage is higher this year likely a low single digit comp given our mix shift toward international markets like China that have higher ROD cost.
Regarding SG&amp;A first quarter total operating expenses were $1 billion up $9 million from the prior year.
Marketing expenses were flat to last year at $143 million.
As a percent of sales total operating expenses leveraged 10 basis points versus last year to 27.1%.
Regarding the balance sheet and cash flow inventory dollars per store were up 7% at the end of the first quarter in line with our beginning of the quarter guidance.
For the quarter free cash flow was an inflow of $351 million and we distributed $328 million.
As part of that distribution we used $219 million to repurchase 5.6 million shares resulting in quarter end share count of 443 million.
Regarding capital expenditures and store count first quarter capital expenditures were $162 million.
We opened 15 company-operated stores on a net basis and ended the quarter with 3179 stores.
Square footage was up 0.5% compared with Q1 2013.
Store count and square footage are listed in our press release.
And now Id like to share our outlook for the rest of the year.
Our objective overall continues to be delivering modest positive comps on a full year basis.
In addition to our comp base we plan to drive increased revenues through our multiple channels newer brands and geographies.
Given our remarks just a few weeks ago Im sure it comes as no surprise that we are once again reaffirming our full year guidance of $2.90 to $2.95.
At its midpoint this equates to 7% full year EPS growth on a reported basis.
On a constant currency basis the growth rate is estimated to be 5 percentage points higher or solid double digit growth rate.
Underlying this guidance is the following.
First the expectation that we make progress against our goal of tightening our inventory levels with each quarter.
At the end of Q2 we expect year-over-year inventory dollars per store to improve by a few points versus the year-over-year increase in Q1.
Second the expectation that our supply initiatives will begin to deliver benefits in the second half of the year especially at Old Navy.
Finally we remain committed to managing SG&amp;A in a disciplined manner.
However recall that leverage is likely to be very modest this year as we moved the portion of our credit card income out of SG&amp;A and into gross margin.
For the full year the following guidance metrics remain substantially unchanged.
We expect operating margins to remain flattish on a reported basis as foreign exchange is negatively impacting our margins.
As a reminder foreign exchange impacts our earnings in two ways.
The first is translation and the second is the impact to our merchandise margins.
Our largest foreign subsidiaries are in Canada and Japan.
And the depreciation of those currencies negatively impacts our cost of goods and therefore our reported results.
We continue to expect square footage to be up about 2.5%.
We still plan to open about 185 company-operated stores and close about 70 net of repositions.
Store closures are weighted towards Gap North America and store openings are weighted towards China Old Navy in Japan Athleta and global outlets.
We expect capital expenditures to be about $750 million and depreciation and amortization to be about $520 million.
We expect our full year effective tax rate to be about 38.5%.
In closing as we enter the second quarter we will continue to focus on levers that we can control like expenses and inventory while we worked to deliver compelling assortments.
And were encouraged by the recent turn in momentum at our largest brand Old Navy.
Thank you.
And now I will turn it back over to Katrina.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We will now open up the call to questions and wed appreciate limiting your questions to one per person.
Thank you.
And we go to our first question from Adrienne Tennant with Janney Capital Markets.
All right.
Can you hear me? Yes.
Well congratulations on the great start to the year in a very difficult environment.
My question is on the inventory change as we go into the back half of the year.
Obviously its quite improved going into the third quarter.
I was wondering are you making any concessions for what you are now hearing about the West Coast port issues? And then similarly Glenn can you talk about the global Gap merchandise changes and what gives you the confidence obviously volume is improving but some of the changes there what gives you the confidence that everything is sort of encapsulated in Q1? Thank you.
Thanks.
I will start with the inventory piece Adrienne.
So we are very much on track to meet our goal of improving our inventory position as each quarter goes by.
So in a tough quarter we are pleased that we met our beginning of the quarter guidance for end of quarter inventory and we just guided that its going to improve by a few points to the end of Q2.
We will guide later to Q3 and Q4 but we intend to stay on the path of continuing to tighten as the year goes on so committed to that thats inventory.
Regarding the port situation of course our logistics team is monitoring our situation very closely.
We hope of course that it is resolved.
But in the meantime we are very much working through contingency plans as you know following the industry for a long time its not a situation we havent faced before.
So we now had to work our plans and how to kick in and take contingency.
But we are hoping for a good resolution to that in June.
Hi Adrienne.
Thanks for the congratulations.
Im not sure its well deserved but I appreciate it.
Okay.
I will say it for Old Navy.
All right.
I will take Old Navy in the month of April.
In terms of Gap Global we were talking and Im not sure weve talked about this with our investors.
But I know amongst ourselves we went to our new global model and made the changes that we did.
The one quarter we did circle with ourselves was Q1 2014 for Gap brand took a look at so many changes that were taking place and so many moving parts that were going on just 12 months ago.
Ive got a lot of faith.
Ive got a lot of belief in Rebekka Bay and Rebekka in the first quarter because some of those transitions were going on but we executed best we could.
But in fairness to her she wasnt facing off with her senior merchants she was facing off with more junior people at the time and transition.
She was the head of women's.
So I hope the first quarter with a lot of moving parts and the fact Rebekka was not surrounded by the kind of supporting cast that every great creative director needs we didnt have our best first quarter.
And I think things got a little bit better.
I think the product is slow right now but slightly better than what you saw in the first quarter.
I think June gets better and especially as I said in my opening remarks August as we move to a full global assortment strategy that that Stephen Sunnucks and Michelle Demartini who is now the senior partner to Rebekka on the merchandising side and Michelle has got 20 years of experience in our business.
I think Im not saying wait till August.
I would say in August there is a moment where we go to three key assortments around the world completely simplifies our business as very clear.
However our good better best strategy across those three assortments.
But I've got a lot of faith in what Rebekka in our full team and she has everybody she needs are going to get done.
They know they didnt have the best first quarter and they are accountable for it.
But I think that we get better from a pure product to the consumer as we move into later part of summer and certainly into fall back couple with the marketing I talked about in the opening comments Im counting on speed but that combination will be the magic to get that business back on track.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Back to work.
We move next to Lorraine Hutchinson with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thank you.
Good afternoon.
Your consumer are a lot of loyalty to your fit around the world and I was just curious to hear about the extent of your testing before rolling out a global fit to some of your brands? Its actually more intense and extensive than I would like it.
This is probably the nature of our culture.
But when it came to -- thats an experience Lorraine when I started we had a European fit the Japanese fit and American fit.
And as we started making decisions collectively as a team to move to a global structure we first start with European fit in that and there is little bit of gross margin left into that in order to liquidate the product properly through Europe and then introduced the American fit lets call it which is now the global fit.
And in Japan we took a little more time and what we are finding out very clearly is weve had to make some very very minor tweaks what is now the global fit as we bought Japan in.
But all the testing we did with our current customers lapse customers new customers on the two fits the new global fit and the old Japanese that which we did over a year ago.
Overwhelmingly people went for the global benefit and the difference was now is managing the size curve.
Now funny story we just had Board Meeting this week and I was just talking to members of the Board when I was in Southern China and then went to Japan right afterwards I found an extra extra extra small and I made a phone call to find out that wasnt a manufacturing production issue but no thats the size curve at work.
And so in certain markets that size is prevalent.
So in Southern China and parts of Japan we dont even have that largest the highest size we go to is large.
So the size curve really gets managed beautifully from the global team the team we have in New York.
And I think that so far so good not heard anything.
And we still got to make sure certain styles that are very Japanese styles like men's cross which we dont sell anywhere else.
But we sold that in Japan that's the part of the global assortment.
And so I think that we want to make sure we preserve products that resonated in local markets but got to a global fit and you know the reason behind it besides the simplification to our business.
Its the only way to get the seamless inventory.
Great.
Thank you.
And we go now to Paul Lejuez with Wells Fargo Securities Hey.
Thanks guys.
Just thinking about fabric platforming in the second half I think it has several benefits.
Im wondering if you could just talk about the benefit on the AUC side of the equation and when that starts to kick in.
And then just second within Athleta just wondering which categories in that business are performing best which are lagging? Thanks.
I will start with the fabric platforming Paul.
Certainly we are making traction on that.
So we have build ourselves internally from start taking it very seriously and we are marching to the goal we set ourselves internally with regard to how much fabric is getting platformed for 2014.
With that certainly should come some average unit costing benefits and that starts in the second half indeed.
What I would say though is we called out that for all of 2014.
AUC isnt a big headline either in terms of headwind because of labor or tailwind because of our tools.
I mean I would say we are managing and we are using the fabric platforming as a critical to all to manage other issues like labor pressures et cetera.
And really the AUC is going to come down to a matter of how our merchant teams and our designers chose to mix the assortment.
But we feel again like everyone being quite responsible and that average unit costing overall therefore it does become a headline.
Just add to that.
We started about a year ago with fabric consolidation.
I think I may have said in one of the calls when we start doing some comparisons between ourselves and our three other global competitors.
About how many fabrics we actually used in a given year was to say the least embarrassing.
So we knew that our creative directors are designers who still had all the flexibility they want in the world because as we dealt directly with Knolls which was the second change we made.
Their ability to treat the same days cloth in so many different ways was moving in a very fast pace will be quite frank above what we thought was actually doable from some of the leading mills in China especially.
So consolidation then went to fever mills doing the work as we build these new relationships and then got to what Sabrina just talked about in terms of platform which has an AUR and then AUC benefit over time.
On the Athleta it depends on the times we are taking about in Q1 which they had a good performance in Q1.
The best performing business in terms of pure comp not in terms of its contribution to the overall business but just comp was what the trend itself has built that was about six months that our other brands are capitalizing on little later than Athleta and thats just a new definition of sweatpants street wear soft dressing.
And I think Nancy and team just did an excellent jumping on that.
And so its so perfect for Athleta as a compliment to could be either during or as you are performing an activity or could be what they say in this business to the activity or from the activity.
And that business provided an incredible level of growth for Athleta.
Now all that really matters (indiscernible) said and done there is this periphery category thats not one that could actually be permanent category for Athleta as it should be a very strong trend going forward for Old Navy and for Gap but what matters to me is the performance because thats what all said and done.
We have a nice swim business where these are the complementary business but what matters to me is performance performance performance in a fashion twist.
And that business was also ahead of its all store comp the performance category still did better than all store comp.
So I would say the category want deliver the growth we needed and this new which again could end up being two years three years worth of growth coming from the new street wear trend and perhaps and its type of customers I think that could do very very good for that brand.
Thank you guys.
Good luck.
And we move now to Kimberly Greenberger with Morgan Stanley.
Great.
Thank you.
When you talked about your speed pipeline a little bit at your Analyst Day and I know you were hoping to see some impact from that pipeline in the first half that looks like it will come in the second half.
Can you just help us understand the percentage of your inventory flows in the second half that will come through that speed pipeline? And then if you could look out over the next two to three years ultimately when its up and running and fully adopted throughout the organizations what percentage of your inventory do you think you could actually flow that pipeline? Thanks.
Well this is what I think and what I believe and then I will probably just answer to what I believe is actually going to happen because I am such a believer of long-term in all of the responsive supply chain initiatives we are doing I know the brand presidents are as well and their teams.
Speed is something at the recent Investor meeting we didnt spent a lot of time talking about to be quite honest.
Its been used by our two outlet teams very well because they are simple they are quick they are nimble teams and speed has been very important to them.
My view of it is that now we have proper platforming pretty far down the line and weve got test and respond in a little bit in the back half but very very strong in the first half of 2015.
Then the next priority is to have rapid response which as you know is a longer living style call it 24 26 weeks where after the first 10 or 12 weeks as we have read the second or third flow get adjusted based on real selling patterns as opposed to decisions made by the merchant and inventory management team.
So you get the first flow is put out you get a read and then you adjust the second and third flow.
Speed pipeline the world class number out there lets call it less than 12 weeks.
Some are between 40% and 50%.
We are in the low-to-mid single digits.
In my world Kimberly I think I dont see why with everything I know about our business and the direction its moving in our aspiration to get to a much higher operating profit going forward while the other three components of responsive supply chain will certain contribute to that.
I think speed is going to have to get somewhere between 15% and 20% of our business to really aggregate value and I think we talked a little bit in the Investor meeting about culture.
I think the culture understands it its behind it knows its right they are just going to sequence it likely as the fourth priority under responsive supply chain initiatives and probably get a little of benefit next year.
Mostly if I was to characterize it for you I think in the second half of 2015 as an initiative under responsive supply chain I could see where speed becomes a bigger part of our business.
Great.
Very helpful.
Thanks.
We move now to Janet Kloppenburg with JJK Research.
Hi everybody.
I had a question on your marketing advertising spend.
Several of the companies that I am following as they transition to the digital platform and yield more sales from that channel are gaining some efficiencies and marketing because it is less costly in that channel than some of the social media venues.
And I am wondering if thats an opportunity that marketing can actually increase but cost savings maybe inherent because of the channel mix is changing especially because of the great growth in your omni-channel investments? Thank you.
Yes.
Janet we are starting to make those very transitions and each brand assorted at a different stage.
I would say Gap is taking a big lead in moving to digital.
We havent done TVs in a little bit of time there or maybe actually surprisingly which has for years done the lions share of our TV marketing and sort of traditional circular marketing as well.
We started talking about in the back half of last year have they started to actually bring television down.
And speaking of that in the second quarter coming up here will have two weeks less of television because we are reinvesting that money in other vehicles including not only digital but also our in-store and our windows etcetera.
So we are starting to makes that shift.
I continue to encourage the teams to look forward strictly at the spend because I think we are getting with the same spend so we just finished the quarter where marketing spend was equal to last year.
I would say for the same spend we are getting to your point a lot of good exposure and marketing both all through our digital platforms as well as our traditional platforms.
I think we can actually drive efficiency to your point over time and spend less as we shift to some of these other mediums.
So I think that is a discussion that is being hotly debated every single quarter as we move forward here.
And the teams are definitely looking at all of that.
Okay.
And I dont if we deal this or not but for the August campaign for Gap would that be a TV campaign or some combination of TV and other than news as well? For this coming August more to come on that.
Yes we are in transition with the new agency so that is still in development but we are definitely going to have a lot of digital materials that can be used for our websites for a lot of different medium.
So in progress and more to come.
Great.
I look forward to it.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from Oliver Chen with Citigroup.
Hi Glenn regarding your early comments on the opportunities you spoke about customer communication.
I was just curious if you could elaborate there on where you see opportunity and what levers that would drive in terms of the business? Thank you.
My take Oliver was that given the operating conditions that we dealt within the first half of the quarter that we took a step back in our customer communication.
Thats less to do with Janets question on mediums and content and how to actually get that out to social tools or other tools.
I just found that we became reactive little defensive and used traditional means to communicate value and to drive traffic which is percentage offs way too frequently and were too good a company for that.
We have very strong brands.
Certain brands out there that we have to compete against or near us but we dont have a direct competitive opportunity with.
I guess that if youre on the strong brand then you have to make up for it with more traditional ways of driving customer attention and driving traffic conversion.
But when -- in your portfolio you have Gap Banana Republic and Old Navy I just have higher expectations I said in the opening.
And if we look at the businesses that did do that that found the right balance between our enlightened and provocative customer communications because the customers are looking for that these days found the right medium and struck the right balance between that and the value proposition it wasnt predictable.
We had a very good business.
Case in point I mentioned Athleta we dont give up their comp they had a very good Q1.
And Old Navy Old Navy is out of the park in April because they struck the absolute great balance between provocative customer communication and a unique way of presenting value.
And the other brands know that and theyre going to do that going-forward.
I mean this is what we expect of portfolio where we have six brands and three iconic ones not to be treated like just any brand.
So higher expectations going forward I think the teams know that even they do do it.
The things little bit more work and it involves more creativity and innovation of thought.
Well may do do it our business and our customers respond.
So Ill be watching very closely and making sure that they get back on track that we expect in the next three quarters.
Thank you.
Best regards.
We go now to Jennifer Davis with Buckingham Research Group.
Hey guys good afternoon.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about China.
I mean I know you have invested in it and I think the largest part of your investments are over.
But I was wondering if as a region its profitable or if there is a certain number of stores that you need to get to to get to that level.
So if you could just talk a little bit about that.
Thanks.
We have said for the last three years that it would obviously be a drain on our earnings as we made investments in people in our office now of 175 people in Shanghai made significant investments in marketing.
It was mentioned in Olivers question earlier about brand building thats especially important.
You get lost in the sea of commodities and in apparel in China if youre not careful.
But I think that the business is really strong.
We feel really good about the comp performance of our existing stores that's now a pool.
Soon it would be a pool of 82 stores sometime in 2014.
We have 30 more stores going in this year.
Well have five to six Old Navys by the end of the year.
All of them have online capabilities and went into Taiwan.
By the amount of capital we are spending there the amount of energy youre getting to most senior level of the company China reports directly to me.
I think its a real strong indicator to our shareholders and the analysts that we believe weve got a tiger by the tail.
And we think thats going to be by far our second biggest market sooner rather than later.
And feel good about the performance all around and profitability is going to be there because we think weve got the economic model as we project forward and look at the productivity in each one of our stores.
We look at the gross margin rate.
We think we can achieve based on three years of operating.
Probably SG&amp;A is going to flow what the rod is going to look like.
We believe the economic model for China is going to be very attractive to the business.
But were not going to sacrifice which we may have made that mistake going into new countries in the past especially with our franchise markets.
Were not going to sacrifice the near to mid-term investments for a real great long-term business.
But we feel very good about it.
Weve got a great team there running it and were going to continue to make investments.
But when it turns to profitability and Ive not yet declared a date when it does that its going to move very quickly into contributing profitable country as opposed to what it is today.
And just the dynamic to keep in mind Gap is improving in its profile every year and so its not very dilutive if you just look at Gap brand.
But of course we just launched Old Navy.
So you are going to have to consider the fact that each brand launch also consumes sequence point a meaningful amount of investment to establish the brand in the right locations with the right marketing.
But if you think of Gap brand alone its definitely making progress toward its path to profitability.
Okay.
Great.
And should we think of that as kind of eventually a similar operating margins or potentially higher operating margin than North America? Its a little bit soon to tell.
I mean I guess our thesis coming in was that its going to be a strong very strong online market thats proving out.
As you know thats an operating margin in that channel is over and above our bricks and mortar business.
Its a little -- on that one Im pretty confident.
Disproportionately its going to be a very strong online business.
The omni-channel I still believe long-term that it's going to have multitudes hopefully more than a hundred very good outlet centers and that also is an operating margin over and above our bricks-and-mortar business.
That one -- well see how that one plays out.
Its not heading the same trajectory I might have assumed two years ago.
Looks good and were going to open 8 or 10 a year for the foreseeable future.
But Im hoping that will pickup as more developers from outside of China including Chinese developers build these amazing outlet centers.
The 10 or 12 run rate now are fantastic and we just think of the right mix of tenants.
So we'll see how that plays out but for us its a productivity per foot is better than average than most cases you can assume.
We can get a better operating margin for total country than we have in North America.
So lets hope that the sales per foot in China continued at the rates they are right now.
All right.
Great.
Thanks and best of luck.
Thank you.
And our last question will come from the line of Matt McClintock with Barclays.
Hi Good afternoon everyone.
Glenn I was wondering if you could talk about I know its a little early but if you could just talk about you have a lot of initiatives going on whether that be the global Gap assortment Reserve in Store Order in Store et cetera.
How do you think about the holiday season or this holiday season how you plan to address that? Given that you have so many different initiatives going on so many stories to tell and so many different ways to tell those stories? Thank you.
Sounds a good question.
What I can tell you we may have said on the February call that we really thought we could have done better in holiday 2013.
A little bit to an earlier question I used the same word.
I think we are little too predictable.
And our holiday assortment our holiday messaging and -- but this is a good customer relatively speaking but theyre not.
They need a different kind of communication than the customer of 2007.
You got to reach out in a much more different way.
They need to really be inspired and engaged in order to participating in brand.
We came back in January and the teams right away got involved.
Its fresh on their minds into holiday 14 planning.
So what I can tell you is that -- that were making the necessary adjustments.
Its not -- were not quite blowing it up but we are severely changing how were going to deal with holiday 2014 starting with product.
Were definitely going to change the cadence in which we speak to customers and we basically looking at a November 1 to December 24 timeline.
We know its a global business.
So its not like the opportunity for us is only in North America its a global opportunity to do the right thing in the holiday season marketing mix of channels delivery schedules for online.
I think we have torn the whole thing upside down in the month of January and we are really working hard.
Its a very important quarter for us.
But we want to make sure we end strong because ending strong in lot of cases means you can start strong.
So lot of great work has gone on to get ready for Q4 and I think happy maybe in the call in August to fill you in more.
Thank you very much.
Great.
Id like to thank everyone for joining us on the call today.
And as a reminder our earnings press release which is available on gapinc.com contains a full recap of our first quarter results as well as the forward-looking guidance included in our prepared remarks.
And as always the Investor Relations team is available after the call for questions.
Thank you.
Thank you.
That concludes our conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
My name is Kevin and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Gap Incorporated Second Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to introduce your host Katrina OConnell Vice President of Investor Relations.
Good afternoon everyone.
Welcome to Gap Inc.s second quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Id like to remind you that the information made available on this webcast and conference call contains forward-looking statements.
For information on factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements as well as reconciliations or descriptions of measures were required to reconcile to GAAP financial measures please refer to todays press release as well as our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and our subsequent filings with the SEC all of which are available on gapinc.com.
These forward-looking statements are based on information as of August 21 2014 and we assume no obligation to publicly update or revise our forward-looking statements.
Before we begin I also want to mention that Sabrina will be using slides to supplement her remarks which you can view by going to the Investor Relations section at gapinc.com.
Joining us on the call today are Chairman and CEO Glenn Murphy; and Executive Vice President and CFO Sabrina Simmons.
Now Id like to turn the call over to Glenn.
Thank you Katrina and good afternoon everybody.
Before I hand the call over to Sabrina who will take you through the Q2 financial highlights with Gap Inc.
I thought Id just give you my customary take in the quarter and also give you a few highlights of the upcoming quarter in Q3.
So Q2 internally we even think about the quarter as a quarter in which we made some progress some progress on the first quarter which we needed to make on a number of different areas but its progress nevertheless and we are committed to making further progress as we look towards the back half.
First Sabrina will talk about progress on margin rate obviously an improvement from Q1 which we needed to make.
So I think that thats a sign of some of the changes were making the business to improve that very important line item in our P&amp;L.
We definitely made progress at Old Navy and that was a really as very strong second quarter with a four comp on top of last years six comp that is market share gaining in really the most important sector that we compete in the value center with the most competitors where ingenuity and innovation matters the most Im very impressed with the Old Navy team.
We opened up three stores in China for Old Navy.
so now we have four stores.
we have at least one more to go this year maybe a second one but thats a big milestone move for us as we look at the China market as everybody knows critical to the future growth for Gap Inc.
Well end this year with 110 Gap stores still on planned; up to six Old Navy stores I think that combination of the two of them in the China markets can be very strong for us.
Our omni-channel initiatives continued to grow.
we really saw some step-up in our reservations on a daily basis of Banana Republic and Gap stores.
so I feel good about what that means for the second half people are time pressed and this reserve in store is unique as a competitive advantage.
so I think that thats really going to shine for us in the second half.
more importantly we tested order in store and as everybody on the phone knows about the ability for something to come into our store we have the device us thats connected to WiFi we can actually complete orders when something is not available in the stores some things in a flagship store which is on the flagship city we get to that product.
So thats been in Banana Republic Gap and Old Navy being tested were going to roll that out to our 1 000 stores in the month of October.
And weve been testing a loyalty program and what weve been doing at Gap Inc.
for a number of years now was continually trying to find different ways and voices something creative when it comes to talking about our value proposition.
Lets say so theres a bit of a promotional merry-go-round in marketplace until the companies are willing to be bulled to be different to try something thats different in terms of offering value to people but not in the way thats predictable those are the companies that could win and I believe this test we are doing in only 25 Banana Republic stores could become the basis of something we can use down the road to present a different twist on our value proposition.
And lastly we have spent an incredible amount of time the last three months getting ready for the second half and getting our prefatory work ready not only on product but on merchandising on marketing; on digital communication on innovation on customer messaging you name it.
Theres a lot of lessons of business learned in 2013.
Weve addressed those as we come into the second half of 2014.
Some quick thoughts about the third quarter which were two weeks into before I hand the phone call over to Sabrina last week at Banana Republic we launched a new marketing campaign called the New Look its the beginning of enhancements in product and marketing digital content from now right to the end of the year and beyond.
And I think it was a nice start for the team.
I think they really made a change in terms of this past the Banana Republic has been on from two conservative to more of a contemporary product appeal that Im speaking mostly about womens products.
I think our mens business has been strong.
This is most of the womens product and what youre going to see going forward is a step-up in that messaging in the months of September October into the holiday season.
In the month of September youre going to see a similar change go on at Gap brand which is much needed its going to be a combination of push product put together by our merchant and design team of Michelle Demartini Rebekka Bay brand-new marketing campaign from Wieden &amp; Kennedy a big change in our online site to match up.
so its a fully integrated communication plan.
I just want to be clear that the store business in North America has not been as strong as Stephen wants and I wanted so far this year.
And while were both pleased with what consumers are going to see in the month of September is just a beginning release that positions us in a much better way as we look forward to September going into the fall going into holiday season.
Some other updates for Q3 the team feels a lot better about our inventory position on a per foot basis across all of our markets which will bode well in terms of the health of the business for the back half in second half of this year youre going to see the company push much harder into personalization.
And this is on our mobile devices on our desktops on iPads and we believe theres a huge opportunity here to personalize home pages personalize content more than we ever have before weve been tested on the first half.
and this is the ultimate definition of the use of big data.
This week weve relaunched Piperlime; we dont talk about Piperlime much.
It only has one physical store its an online business.
While its easy to look at Piperlime as a small part of the Gap Inc.
portfolio.
what I will tell you is we use it continuously as a site where we test a lot of ideas.
Ideas that can work for that business because thats what matters first but then can be taken to our other brands and I believe the relaunch of their site provides for a lot of innovative ways to present our online business to customers.
Just a quick update on our franchise business because the company operates in about 50 countries.
Its been a unique year with some franchise markets clearly showing some declines like in Russia Ukraine and Israel.
We have been very pleased with some long-term future markets like Brazil Mexico UAE with the strong growth midway through this year.
And as a matter of fact as Im speaking to you were putting out the release sales thats going to be opened up stores in India.
In 2015 we believe the Gap brand has very strong brand awareness and looking forward to adding it to our franchise portfolio.
So in closing I just have one comment to make.
Today is the 45th anniversary of Gap Inc.
and this was the in 1969 that Doris and Don Fisher both spend $21 000 each of their own money to start this incredible company.
What Id like to say is on behalf of the 140 000 employees and millions of people who have worked in this company a big big thank you to the Fishers.
This incredible couple who founded this business who make us proud every single day and I think that its a testimony to the strength of our brands of our people of our creativity our commitment to the customer that this business has been around for 45 years and continues to move forward and to blaze trails and be a formidable force in the apparel business.
We have one goal and one goal only.
And I think Don Fisher passed away five years ago on September would appreciate this to become the number one global apparel company in the world.
And if we keep not being afraid to take risk push forward the business we will achieve that goal.
With that said let me hand it over to our CFO Sabrina Simmons.
Thank you Glenn.
Good afternoon everyone.
As we begin the second half of the year Id like to take a moment to reiterate the priorities we set at the beginning of the year.
We continue to focus on a balanced approach to driving long-term value.
As a reminder our financial priorities for the year are growing sales with healthy merchandise margins managing our expenses delivering earnings per share growth and returning excess cash to shareholder.
As I described the financial results for the quarter its worth noting that all reported numbers include a $39 million gain on asset sale that we reported with our July sale.
In Q2 we made progress again several of our financial priorities.
Specifically we grew net sales by 3%.
Expenses were managed very tightly with operating expenses down $44 million including the gain.
We delivered earnings of $332 million and earnings per share of $0.75 versus $0.64 last year.
Year-to-date weve generated free cash flow of $668 million and we distributed $802 million through share repurchases and dividends.
Regarding sales for the second quarter total net sales were $4 billion and comp sales were flat for the quarter following last years five comp.
Total sales and comp by division are listed in our press release.
Moving to gross margin.
The second quarter gross margin was down 110 basis points to 39.4%.
This is an improvement in our trends from Q1.
Merchandised margins were down 90 basis points for the quarter driven by elevated promotional levels at Gap brand.
Rent and occupancy deleveraged 20 basis points.
As a remainder we need positive comps to leverage rent and occupancy and the threshold for ROD leverage is higher this year given our mix shift for international markets like China that have higher ROD cost.
Regarding SG&amp;A second quarter total operating expenses were $1 billion down $44 million from the prior year.
Operating expenses versus last year benefitted $39 million from the gain on sales.
Marketing expenses were down $6 million to last year at $142 million.
As a percentage of sales total operating expenses leveraged 180 basis points versus last year to 25.2%.
Regarding the balance sheet were pleased that were meeting our goal of better aligning inventory with sales in each period.
Inventory dollars per store were up 2% at the end of the second quarter.
We ended the quarter with about $1.5 billion in cash and used $364 million to repurchase 9 million shares resulting in a quarter-end share count of 434 million.
Regarding capital expenditures and store count year-to-date capital expenditures were $328 million.
Year-to-date we opened 36 company-operated stores on a net basis and ended the quarter with 3 200 stores.
Square footage was up 1.6% compared with Q2 2013.
Store count and square footage details are listed in our press release.
And now Id like to share our outlook for the rest of the year.
Our full year operating outlook remains unchanged.
However we are updating our full year guidance to reflect the gain on sale worth $0.05.
Therefore our full year guidance range has increased from $2.90 to $2.95 to $2.95 to $3.
At its midpoint including the gain this represents growth of approximately 9%.
On a constant currency basis the growth rate is estimated to be 5 percentage points higher or solid double-digit growth rate over last years 18% growth rate.
Underlying this guidance is the expectation that we maintained tighter inventory levels that are more in line with sales.
At the end of the third quarter we expect year-over-year inventory dollars per store to be up in the low-single digits.
Regarding expenses its important to note that there is no change to our full year goal of achieving leverage.
However as we mentioned last quarter we expect full year leverage to be very modest given the shift of about $160 million of income out of expense into merchandise margins as we discussed in depth on the Q1 call.
We achieved one point of leverage in the first half of the year in the phase of more challenging sales and traffic trends.
In the second half of the year assuming we meet our sales goals this dynamic will likely change as we had difficult comparisons from expense savings last year and as we invest to support marketing especially a Gap brand.
We expect marketing expenses in the third quarter to be up about $25 million versus last year.
For the full year the following guidance metrics remain substantially unchanged.
We expect operating margins to remain flattish on a reported basis.
We continue to expect square footage to be up about 2.5%.
We still plan to open about 185 company-operated stores and close about 70 net of repositions.
Store closures are weighted towards Gap North America and store openings are weighted towards China Old Navy in Japan Athleta and global outlets.
We expect capital expenditures to be about $750 million and depreciation and amortization to be about $520 million and our full year effective tax rate to be about 38.5%.
In closing as we commenced the second half of the year well continue to focus on the levers that we control while we work to deliver compelling product and marketing.
Thank you.
And now Ill turn it back over to Katrina.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
Well now open up the call to questions and wed appreciate limiting your questions to one per person please.
Thank you.
Well take our first question from Oliver Chen with Citi.
Please go ahead.
Hi thank you.
We had a question related to the Gap division.
What do you think the next major hurdles are there to what we should watch for as you look to further move along with merchandise execution and just as a quick follow-up could you talk briefly about supply chain and how you are feeling about fabric platforming and test read and react? Thank you.
Thats two questions.
Kidding aside the Gap business as I talked about in my opening comments I think that we can  if we wanted to we could rationalize a way the first quarter which was a difficult quarter for business that has a strong U.S.
based division.
And thats been the division that clearly has been underperforming the most for Gap brand of all its global presents the U.S.
has been the business that were most disappointed.
And second quarter was a bit of a carryover from the first quarter combination of product and other issues in the second quarter.
I think theyve made a lot of changes and people on the call and mostly our customers were going to be shopping that business on their device or in one of our stores around the world.
They are going to see a better face of the brand from a product perspective starting in the first week of September much better communication.
So I dont want to get into the full integrated plan youre really focused on merchandise and I think you see some changes in the product and you start to see now what the benefit is of teamwork between a very strong and talented designer and a commercial merchant not a product merchant or a commercial merchant and Michelle Demartini who partners with Rebekka Bay.
We see how that works over at Old Navy and its producing the results were seeing now as we redefined the role of the merchant and make a much more commercial to drives the business and doesn't necessarily just pick product and we are seeing that in the early days of the relationship between our Banana Republic consumer of Julie Rosen and Marissa Webb.
So I think youll see a change in the merchandising but as I said in my opening comment its the beginning Gap had a very nice run in 2012 and 2013.
First two quarters I said that you could explain and Im not happy with them you could explain them.
And now I think youll see the beginning of the change in the first week of September take us all way through holiday and not actually in spring and I think they continue to do what any good brand should do has deliver a better and better assortment every single season.
I think this will be just the beginning in this fall launch.
On supply chain fabric platforming Im really impressed with how much progress weve made.
Its taken us a while to get there as we shifted our relationship from vendor-based relationships to mill-based relationships but well have a significant amount for us of our assortment on fabric platforming in the second half and thats going to help us a little bit with cost of goods Compare to the first half as the whole intention behind its not only finally the platform to run or respond to supply chain tools off of we cant run the tools without a significant amount of your assortment on fabric platform but also as you consolidate your fabrics and create a much more tight library of fabrics and negotiate directly with mills that allows you to get the benefit of cost of goods.
Thanks a lot.
Best regards for the holiday season.
Our next question will come from Matt McClintock with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</strong>  Hi guys good afternoon everyone.
Glenn I was just wondering you outlined a lot of very strong digital initiatives you talked about the reserve in store order in store and you also talk about personalization.
Overall the digital growth rate for revenues is actually decelerated meaningfully from the run rate last year.
And I was just wondering could you maybe speak to that a little bit Im not trying to poke holes in a double-digit growth rate because clearly thats very strong but the deceleration itself what are you seeing in that business thats driving that in and when can we potentially expect a reacceleration? Thank you.
Well a couple of comments on that Matt.
One I would say that inside of that double-digit growth rate in the second quarter was poor performance at Gap brand and then some of the reasons Ive just explained all of them earlier I think theyre just a matter of record now where one is happy with our assortment in North America in particular or the U.S.
in particular.
But it was 11 on top of 27.
So was it two-year 36.
So thats 18% per year.
Definitely market share gaining over two years but I wont disagree with you.
I thought we should do better than 11%.
Now order in store drives business in the store and its only being tested in 30 stores right now.
Reserve in store stepped up in the second quarter drives business in the stores.
So even though those tools  I know you get the eyeballs from online but the sale goes to the store.
And I think personalization what Im trying to say in opening comments possibly wasnt clear.
Were just testing that.
Its been about six months weve been in beta test but we now believe that personalized content and personalized promotions eventually on our homepage in our emails in our messaging will definitely help online business going forward.
But I dont know.
I think it was a good performance online over two years.
I said if the market is growing between 10% and 12% maybe Im being generous when it comes to apparel.
Two years of back to back 18% is good but Id have my eye on 11%.
I wont deny that.
That was a number we circled at the end of our P&amp;L because we know every part of our business has to fire in cylinders for us to reach our goal.
And our online business did a decent job in the second quarter but we are always looking for strength especially given your point the investments we are making.
Inc.</strong> Thank you very much Glenn.
We go next to Simeon Siegel with Nomura.
Please go ahead.
Great thanks.
Can you provide any color on the trend of the outlets I mean for broader challenges across that channel? I think that its a business that when the core brands are strong they do very well.
I mean theres just this incredible relationship between the specialty business and our outlet business.
And our outlet business did very well in 2012 and 2013 because our core business was stronger at that time.
So if certain malls around the country mostly B malls maybe the odd C malls start to act promotionally like an outlet mall thats 10 miles away its more difficult to drive traffic to the outlet mall.
I think over time especially in our business this is maybe a macro comment about the specialty mall business in general as it becomes and needs to become more innovative as it puts production separation between its outlet business and its specialty business which is critical as it speaks and engages customers in a way thats not so dependent on just pure discounting I think the outlet business is in its right form and within our portfolio was a critical part a very important channel inside our business.
Id say for that reason Jack Calhoun and Steve Sunnucks are really focused in the back half to make sure the specialty business gets to the right position on the continual mobile portfolio from Old Navy on the left hand side of the portfolio value based to intermix on the right hand side of the portfolio which is luxury.
And for our outlet business even though traffic ebbs and flows for it to be really successful we need strong specialty business brand recognition is there but strong acceptance and a value proposition that is less baked in a percentage of as a tool to express their value which is really the tool of the outlet business.
Id say the last comment is theres been some new real estate lately.
The only place that were seeing real estate growing and square footage increasing as in lifestyle centers after being converted to the power centers or being converted to outlet centers.
We participate in those we think is right but for the most part our investment for last couple of years have been in urban locations street locations and power centers as we try to make sure we stay in only the best outlet malls.
But looking where the customer is going and where traffic is theres a lot of street locations weve gone into inner urban locations where there is no crossover from a specialty store.
Weve dropped in one of our factory store businesses having done very well.
So were being careful not to just react that we did years ago to new square footage but be thoughtful and strategic on how we spread our outlet stores across the country.
We go next to Kimberly Greenberger with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Hi what kind of steps are you thinking about in terms of easing up the promotions but still maintaining a shopper or are you thinking in terms more of developing the a better platform such as the cost of good decreases and maintaining the promotions to keep the shopper interested.
What sort of lessons did you learn from last year that youd like to implement this year?  While lots of lessons from last year I think have already been implemented and these are no word of importance but I think that ourselves and my opinion is a significant amount of the rest of the apparel market is in a much better leaner inventory position than they were 12 months ago coming into the back half.
I think that drove a lot of the  from that promotions what we saw in 2013 but I think the consumers feeling slightly better which now we think its good for the overall industry.
But whether the consumer feels slightly better about apparel comes up to how well all of us but Ill speak for Gap Inc.
how well we bring product that they love because thats what it needs these days which have the incredible marketing that reaches out to them to them through all the different tools we have to speak about our brands.
We as I talked about earlier I think was Matts question are going to talk quite a bit about the convenience in the back half using our tools of reserving store omni-channel  sorry reserving store order-in store other tools we have.
So we can talk about much more than the set of more traditional definition of a value proposition.
I think the market we are investing and its because we do believe we made some really good decision to the back half I think our marketing is much better.
So look at it as a step between product channel execution led by online supported by stores integrate marketing into unique innovative ideas like our omni-channel tools which are unique that be able to marketplace.
And better inventory work your way up and were trying to avoid and only when necessary how to play a more traditional game of communication customers as it was more predominant last year.
At the end of the day we are ready for whatever outcome develops in the marketplace thats what we have Old Navy to go out on behalf of the portfolio gain shares it did in Q2 with a four comp over six be aggressive and thats  its rolled in the portfolio.
Thats to a previous question why outlet is important to us.
We have those three businesses Old Navy Gap Outlet Banana Republic Factory Stores those are the businesses that grow on behalf of the Gap Inc.
portfolio and become more aggressive and play more of a promotional game and the other brands are to be positioned differently and thats the work on the work that Gap and Banana Republic need to execute on their specialty business in the back half.
Right thanks.
The next question will come from Lorraine Hutchinson of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thank you.
Good afternoon.
Glenn now that Old Navy has rolled out in China can you take a step back and just talk about where you think you have the greatest opportunity there whether its full price Gap stores the outlets or the Old Navy concept? Thats a good question Lorraine.
Its so early I was there three weeks ago when the fourth Old Navy opens I'm probably just a little bit painted just because that was a big to do it was our fourth store second one in Shanghai the first one off to a tremendous start and this one so far so good after just a few weeks.
I would say that my instinct sitting here today was Old Navy will have a chance to go deeper into the country than Gap will.
The number of stores to be determined obviously here in U.S.
we have 50% more Old Navy stores than we have Gap store specialty.
I dont see any reason why that couldnt play itself out in China overtime.
Say may have a different view what matters I guess right now sitting here my view and Id say I could see that playing out in China.
But definitely will be at for a GAP right now is in some lets call in for argument sake tier 4 and tier 5 cities doing well.
Everything in China weve uncovered so far is customers love fashion.
It is big family play which obviously fits Old Navy and for Gap value proposition but not discounting just being money not overpaying for quality which is you know good definition of value which is important to the Chinese.
And as I think as we look at that and add it all together I think were super happy that both brands in our outlet business and the strong online business in China.
I think overall I look over the next five years I can see where we would have more Old Navys going deeper into the country as we planned on our real estate strategy.
Thank you.
Our next question will come from Jennifer Davis with Buckingham Research Group Please go ahead.
Hi guys good afternoon.
I was wondering if you can talk a little bit about Athleta give us some color on how thats doing and maybe an incentive metrics that youre willing to share around the stores.
And then Glen its good to hear you talk about starting to may be utilized some of that big data.
Thanks.
You guys also bring Sabrina here too right.
Yeah.
Hi Sabrina.
I think that the team has done a really good job taking a business that was very solid.
Now will get to we were joking other day its amazing how quickly we got a 100 store.
So well get the 100 stores by the end of this year.
What I like about it is it fits in types of real estate which is very important for brand you thinking can you work in mall can you work in a street can you work in a strip center and weve proven all that.
So online business is doing really well we have all the metrics that say we go into a trade area we dont have a store when we drop a physical store in the multiplier on the pool of online business we do is very attractive.
I think that its in multiple activities we continue to push that.
So its not a one-dimensional business.
Ive also said many time our key competitor is Nike all those other competitors who get a lot more air time at the end of day Nike is the big player here and the person we look at the most.
And where the share is going to come from Athleta Store productivity; sell through it like service scores in terms of the people and the quality of people we have.
The relationship is its our only business as we move to a seamless inventory model during the next couple of years has led over the years of seamless inventory business one team overseas all of its inventory between an online catalog and a store business.
So we really get a lot of benefit under that.
I said in the April Analyst Meeting and still believe that I think its going to be our fourth global brand.
I think its earned the right to be considered for that we havent decided yet but its earned the right to be given consideration.
And lastly what every business launch but especially a business in the period of apparel is the trend  is their trend right of the business they are going after performance as their trend the new way of dressing is their trend street wear everything thats happening right now.
The women who are coming for the Millennial so many things are going in their direction.
So we are very happy with that loved the team there and their leadership.
So were going to continue to speed and I got a very nice return on capital which always make the two of us happy.
So we are going to continue to invest behind them.
All right.
Great thanks.
Best of Luck.
We go next to John Morris with BMO Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hi its actually [Julianne Victor] (ph) on for John.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about your product testing and your rapid responsiveness.
I know you had some pretty big win there maybe earlier this year.
So just wondering if you could give us kind of what percent of the assortment of each brand is being tested right now and what are the learnings and how you see it rolling out going forward? Thank you.
We talked in April the Analyst Meeting I think at the end of meeting I had Q&amp;A I think John was there that really was hoping that testing at a minimum but also another important tool for us rapid response would be a little more developed for the back half.
Most of the benefit from the testing will come in the first quarter.
Thats same with rapid response; we have a little bit of benefit come in the second half.
That was in the original plan but the fabric platform work weve done should help us on the gross margin in the back half of 2014.
Id say Ive seen every week I get a report in all the tests we do.
So we just finish doing a number of tests across all the businesses for the first quarter.
But it tends to point two; it helps us with the range bound of inventory how big a buy.
this is not a test of what the designers know what theyre doing.
We trust our designers.
This is what theres something 300 000 units by 350 000 or 400 000.
Then within that it helps us with the CC component and most times what it tells us is to give a style or program at NCCs.
You dont need the NCCs.
So we got to keep working on that.
Sometimes multiple colors have advantaged nicely for Gap but it is helping us very much understand the size of the power of the buy of that style.
And within that style it could be unique actually within each style but mostly it could be color of printed pattern and all the results Ive seen are very helpful for the team.
And we always got to apply commercial judgment and how do we gain market share to drive it but the tests are certainly validating some of that and getting that a big opportunity Gap Inc.s P&amp;L which is what I just told you was that led us towering strength which is units sold at regular price.
I think this has helped quite a bit in 2015 on that metric.
Okay.
Thank you.
We go next to Susan Anderson with FBR Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Good evening.
Thanks for taking my question.
I was wondering if you could give us an update on how Athleta is performing and maybe theres any updates on growth trajectory.
And then if you could also maybe talk about the landscape a little bit that seems like a lot of players are trying to enter it and keep seeing any increase there at all? Thanks.
Look whenever there is I was just saying to a previous question whatever you have I think I described that the trend is your friend a lot of people tried to jump in on this business.
Now in fairness Old Navy has been added for with their active line for about three plus years.
Gap have Gap fit theyve had that over three years also.
So we look at it that Athleta is a standalone business that focuses on womens performance product and thats the first attribute but as performance but also as a fashion component to it.
So we look at it from a Gap Inc.
portfolio were dominating for sure with Athleta which is a standalone business.
There are a lot of people get into the category but that doesnt mean theyre going to be successful.
We really like how Athleta is performing like very much decisions that teams have made recently whether thats on marketing or whether thats in the assortment strategy whether thats on real estate.
And I think its the  its kind of a beautiful split in its business between online and stores.
And thats as for those of you who have been following Sabrina and I for the last seven plus years we untangled some of the store decisions of the past.
so we definitely promised to ourselves when we go into China when Old Navy goes international if we buy something like Athleta were going to take those lessons with us and make sure that out of the gate we see how customers want to shop to find a better split between our digital business and our physical business and Athleta certainly has a beautiful split in this business.
Okay thank you.
We go next to Paul Lejuez with Wells Fargo.
Hey guys.
just wondering if you could talk a little bit about cotton prices are you staring to see benefit there if so when might you expect that to become a tailwind in the P&amp;L? Thanks.
Yes.
Theres always a little bit of a lag because we place orders some months before obviously they show up in stores Paul.
So its great news to see cotton coming down because of the lag effect we would expect some small benefits probably in spring.
But assuming that the prices stay down as they have been you see a much more pronounced effect in summer which is obviously good news as we look forward to 2015.
Thanks guys.
good luck.
And we go next to Barbara Wyckoff with CLSA.
Please go ahead.
Hi everybody.
Could you talk about the potential for store closures end of this year? how many leases are coming due this year and next? I think last quarter you talked Glenn about gap may be being a place you might be looking at versus the others? Thanks.
Were fortunate in some ways; I think the best math to apply is we have 2 500 odd stores in the U.S.
so about 500 leases come up every single year.
So that phenomenon plus the recession is what allowed us to do the work we did in the last four or five years.
Going forward Barbara I think were a little less focused on closures although are mid too theres always opportunity to look at stores that could be less about untangling this web that we inhered in 2007 and more about strategically looking at every single market and doesnt make sense on a physical presence.
With our omni-channel tools once I talked earlier about especially with reserve in store and order in store were much more now focused about a physical presence does matter although were challenging as the size of the store.
We definitely decide about Old Navy and took it a lot of square footage in the last five years.
But now we are turning to Gap and to Banana Republic and wont talk about on this call but in the February call we can definitely talk about some of the ideas we have for testing a different kind of physical space were working with our team here and bring the digital physical teams together working on our store going forward.
It allow us to have a high touch store lower square footage and applying the current plus many more omni-channel tools to that store.
Im hoping that will be a success for us is something we can deploy as we look at our real estate going forward but great thing about the way our real estate team operates we have a lots of flexibility.
Great.
Thank you.
And our final question today will come from Brian Tunick with J.P.
Morgan.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good afternoon guys.
Hoping to get I guess an update on denim trends and how you are planning inventory there? I guess what is denim as a percentage of sales in the two big brands and how does that impact you are thinking on the timing of seeing positive comps.
I guess thats the Gap brand in the second half? Thanks very much.
Here's how I look at it Brian.
I would say that denim when you run the business in a portfolio for the American brands and I think youre referencing obviously well maybe in Gap.
Those are heritage foundational categories for both of those businesses.
To me this is where commercial merchants earn their keep obviously understanding trends understanding their brands understanding customers and competition let me just highlight one example.
So weve had a team together of Joe Stenson and Joni Berger at Old Navy now working together one a creative Director of Commercial Executive and one a commercial leader on behalf of the business and Old Navy did a four comp in Q2 on top of the six last year with denim across the marketplace negative comp and lets say where denim negative comp is that across the marketplace what they do? They (indiscernible) denim was under delivering the marketplace they played a different color game they introduced really worked hard on their fit pant which is their active pant really invested in that got behind it double expose that gave a lot of space online and digital content introduce the pixie pant introduce the redesigned fabrication on the chenille pant and now where the first of our brands to embrace soft dressing.
And when a commercial merchant works with their partner and design and figures out exactly that those trends like weve lived through skirts versus dresses we lived through knits versus woven is going to happen they have indigo denim and there is a little too much in the marketplace.
If you cant understand the market understand your customer take advantage of the gain share then we probably dont have the right commercial merchants.
In the Gap business in fairness to them Rebekka Bay who is our creative director have a lot of confidence and didnt have a partner for the first half of this year.
And first part of the relationship between Rebekka and Michelle has going to be introduced on our September product comes in thats our mistake by the way thats not Rebeccas fault thats my mistake thats Steves mistake we should make sure day one she had a solid partner with her because she runs six months with people she worked with a lot partner to the caliber of Michelle.
So lets see how they have figured it out and navigate but this is what they do for living whether its sweaters and holiday or  always understanding where they are going to gain share </strong>how do they beat the competition ultimately how do we win.
So I think that weve demonstrated that in one business and the other one not as well thats why were disappointed in our performance so far but its explainable but I think youll see hopefully an improvement in the back half as our tandem comes together.
Thank you.
I would like to thank everyone for joining us on the call today.
And as a reminder our earnings press release which is available on gapinc.com contains a full recap of our second quarter results as well as the forward-looking guidance included in our prepared remarks.
And as always the Investor Relations team will be available after the call for further questions.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude todays conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to The Gap Inc.
Third Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to introduce your host Katrina O'Connell Vice President of Investor Relations.
Good afternoon everyone.
Welcome to Gap Inc.'s third quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Today's call is intended to cover both our third quarter earnings results and the company's organizational announcements issued today in separate press releases.
Before we begin I'd like to remind you that the information made available on this webcast and conference call contains certain forward-looking statements.
For information on factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements as well as reconciliations or descriptions of measures we're required to reconcile to GAAP financial measures please refer to today's earnings press release as well as our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and our subsequent filings with the SEC all of which are available on gapinc.com.
These forward-looking statements are based on information as of November 20 2014 and we assume no obligation to publicly update or revise our forward-looking statements.
I also want to mention that Sabrina will be using slides to supplement her remarks which you can view by going to the Investor Relations section at gapinc.com.
Joining us on the call today are current Chairman and CEO Glenn Murphy; Art Peck current President Growth Innovation and Digital and future CEO; and Executive Vice President and CFO Sabrina Simmons.
As usual Glenn and Sabrina will share the earnings results for the quarter.
In addition both Glenn and Art will also share their respective views on the announced leadership transitions.
Please note that Art is joining us on the call from New York today so he will make his comments and then turn his attention to the teams in New York.
Therefore he will not join for Q&amp;A; however after our prepared remarks we will open up the call and Glenn and Sabrina will be available for questions.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Sabrina.
Thank you Katrina.
Good afternoon everyone.
As usual I'll begin today by reviewing third quarter performance and then provide an update on our full year guidance.
While we're not proud of our third quarter sales performance driven by a particularly tough result at Gap brand we are pleased that the team has demonstrated strong discipline on both expense and inventory.
Net income for the third quarter was $351 million and we delivered earnings per share of $0.80 up 11% to last year.
As a reminder our Q3 earnings per share of $0.80 includes a non-recurring benefit of about $0.06 from a lower effective tax rate of 34.5% in the quarter.
Regarding sales for the third quarter total net sales were flat at $4 billion and comp sales were down 2%.
For the quarter the translation of foreign revenues into dollars negatively impacted our reported sales by $31 million primarily due to the weakening yen and Canadian dollar.
On a constant currency basis therefore our revenues were up 1%.
Moving to gross margin third quarter gross margins were up 20 basis points to 40.2% with a favorability versus our prior outlook being driven by non-merchandise items like shrink and shipping.
Merchandise margins were up 90 basis points for the quarter with Old Navy delivering the strongest margin performance.
Rent and occupancy deleveraged 70 basis points.
Regarding SG&amp;A third quarter total operating expenses were $1 billion up $29 million from the prior year.
Marketing expenses were up $14 million to last year at $176 million.
Excluding the credit card income reclass of about $40 million operating expense dollars would actually have been below last year.
Regarding the balance sheet at the end of the third quarter we're pleased that inventory ended down 2% per store below our previous guidance.
We ended the quarter with about $1 billion in cash.
Given our opportunistic approach to share buybacks we're pleased we repurchased 11.4 million shares in the quarter with a vast majority of those shares bought at a price of about $36.50.
Year-to-date we've used over $1 billion to repurchase 26 million shares.
We've also distributed nearly $300 million in dividends resulting in total cash distributions through October of more than $1.3 billion.
We ended the quarter with 424 million shares outstanding.
Regarding capital expenditures and store count year-to-date CapEx was $508 million.
We ended the quarter with 3 266 company-operated stores and square footage was up about 2% compared with Q3 2013.
Store count and square footage details are listed in our press release.
And now Id like to share our outlook for the rest of the year.
Overall our expectation is that the holiday season will remain highly promotional and competitive.
We're revising our full year earnings per share outlook to $2.73 to $2.78 which includes the Q2 gain on asset sale of about $39 million.
The new range also includes a lower full year effective tax rate of about 38% reflecting the third quarter tax benefit.
In addition we now expect operating margins to be about 12.5%.
Our guidance range assumes current foreign exchange rate to hold for the remainder of Q4.
Given that some major currencies weakened meaningfully against the dollar in October foreign exchange is likely to have a bigger negative impact on our Q4 earnings than we experienced in Q3.
For the full year we continue to estimate that foreign exchange will negatively impact our EPS growth rate by about 5 percentage points.
Regarding other full year guidance metrics we've reduced our expected capital expenditures in response to a more challenging operating performance.
We now expect CapEx to be about $700 million down from our previous guidance of about $750 million.
And we now expect depreciation and amortization to be about $500 million.
Our net square footage guidance is unchanged at about 2.5%.
To be helpful here are some other things to keep in mind.
Clearly we plan to remain diligent in our expense management.
As a reminder we delivered a full point of leverage in the first half of the year.
However similar to the third quarter we expect expenses to deleverage in the fourth quarter.
At the end of the fourth quarter we expect year-over-year inventory dollars per store to be down slightly.
It's important to note that this guidance on inventory excludes any impact from the West Coast port issues.
If we trigger any contingency plans that could impact inventory levels such as pulling forward receipts we'll give you an update on our monthly sales call.
Finally the guidance assumes we see no meaningful improvement in the trend for Gap brand speaking of which as Katrina mentioned today we also announced some important organizational changes at both Gap and Banana Republic.
So now that I've taken you through earnings I'll turn it over to Glenn to discuss those announcements in greater detail.
Thank you Sabrina and good afternoon everybody.
Earlier today we put out two press releases the first one that just Sabrina just covered off our Gap Inc.'s financial results for the third quarter 2014.
And the second press release that we put out is about two presidents who will be leaving our business so Art Peck our new CEO who will be taking over from me on February 1st can put the team he wants to put together going forward that gives Gap Inc.
the best chance to have innovation to win more customers to grow internationally and to be a top global retail apparel company around the world.
So at the end of day I'm very supportive of what Art is doing.
Conversations I've had with him have always been around look you have to put together the winning combination of existing executives new executives that you think are right in order for Gap Inc.
to achieve what I just said earlier to be the leading global retail apparel company around the world.
Steve Sunnucks will be leaving us before the end of the calendar year.
I've known Steve now for eight years.
He's worked for me that whole time.
He's gone from running Europe to running franchise to running Asia.
And we put Gap global together in New York City and Steve is overseeing that now for two years.
A lot of the structural work to bring Gap together have been done under Steve's leadership but there's more work to do.
It's not quite complete.
And certainly as Art and Jeff Kirwan our new President for Gap Global start working together there's work to be done at Gap.
Our performance has been a little less consistent we want it to be and there's definitely room for improvement.
Under Art's leadership with Jeff at the helm I believe Gap brand has a very strong opportunity to drive their business forward in 2015 and beyond.
Jack Calhoun who I appointed to become President of Banana Republic a few months after I started in 2007 has really done a very good job for the company.
I think Jack did a great job integrating outlet into the specialty business integrating online to create this new Banana Republic global team and have one view of the brand across all customer touch points.
And recently the addition of Marissa Webb who Jack recruited and hired to become our Creative Director I really feel strongly that's going to position Banana Republic very well for the future.
Now Art made two very good decisions in appointing Andi Owen and Jeff Kirwan to become future presidents.
I've known both these executives for the better part of eight years.
I've worked side-by-side with them have seen them grow have seen them tested.
Andi has got great experience he grew up in the field but always had this incredible merchant skill an eye for product.
And Jeff who was running Canada for Old Navy when I started in 2007 but the last three years has worked directly for me and driving the chain of business forward.
The future of the company in terms of growth is really going to be very much focused on the China business.
So from my perspective Art has made two very good decisions.
He's putting the team together he wants to move forward with.
So with that said let me pass it over to Art and give him a couple of minutes to talk about the choices of Andi Owen and Jeff Kirwan.
Art? Thanks Glenn.
I really appreciate it and let me echo Glenn's comments in his thanks to both Jack and Steve for their time with the company and service and commitment to the company.
I want to spend a moment just talking about really why now why I initiated these changes now.
The first I would point out that while I've had the benefit now of several weeks since we announced the transition to get to know more about parts of the company and the situation in the company that I've not been close to and familiar with.
Being at the company for the last 10 years and having multiple roles around the company has really given me very broad and oftentimes very deep exposure to the executives in our senior roles.
And that applies obviously both to Jeff in his role in China and to Andi in multiple roles while we've worked very closely together.
So I really appreciate the time to get to know things but this is a change that is really based upon my deeper experience and knowledge of the company as well as knowledge of the talent that we have across the company.
I also would just communicate to you that I have inherited an extraordinarily strong and deep bench and it's something I'm proud of for us as an organization and it's a reason why I have confidence that even with two changes like this we will not miss our stride as an organization as we go into next year with this senior team in place.
But why now is very simple which is I'm impatient to get the team in place for 2015 and ready to drive business results as we go into the new fiscal year.
Let me spend a moment first then about Jeff.
Obviously Jeff until now has been building our China business.
I would describe Jeff as number one a great leader; number two a very balanced executive; number three somebody who really gets our brands and really gets brand building.
There is a word that I will use with both Andi and Jeff which is consistency.
Jeff has been a consistent deliverer of exceptional performance across all of the assignments that he's been in.
I'll say the same thing about Andi but I just want you to note that consistency for me in both of these executives and their track records is a critical issue.
Jeff and I have a high degree of urgency about the situation at Gap and I'm very anxious to get him in there with the team working with me to get the business back on track.
We owe that to our customers to our employees and certainly to our investors.
We need to get the aesthetic right for the brand.
And I would note that this is something I've done before.
So when I went to Gap in 2011 we also had an aesthetic issue there and it was highest priority in terms of writing the business.
We worked on it during the course of that year and we made some improvements in the product during the year.
And in 2012 we delivered with the team an exceptional performance.
And so I've been there worked on these issues before and I have a high degree of confidence that Jeff with my partnership working with the team can lead that team to getting the brand right quickly.
With Andi again I would say a very balanced executive.
She has been in a number of different functions in the company.
She's worked across many of our brands.
She's been in the online space.
She's been in the specialty space.
She's been in the outlet space.
So she has really seen a bulk of what we do as a company and again delivered consistent performance across all of the key roles that we've put her in.
She is really an unusual executive for us.
She grew up in the field organization then transitioned into merchandising.
She has demonstrated that she has an exceptional taste level but she is also an exceptional leader.
And that's what I get excited about Andi as well as she is balanced she is fluid across multiple disciplines in the business she has great taste.
And I think she will do very well in building on the work that Jack and Marissa and the team have done in terms of delivering more consistent performance in realizing the potential of Banana Republic.
So I've talked about both Jeff and Andi and I've used the word consistency.
It's a very important word for me and it starts with exceptional product that we deliver consistently season after season.
This is the focus that I have right now.
It's the focus that Jeff will have going into that building with the team.
And I know it's the focus that Andi has building on Jack's work as well.
Let me just wrap up then.
I could talk about this for a long time.
Hopefully you can hear in my comments the confidence that I have in both Jeff and Andi and the teams that they will be leading in these new roles.
I also want to say that I am extraordinarily confident in the broader team here.
The individuals running our P&amp;Ls across Old Navy and Piperlime Athleta and Intermix as well as my functional partners I think it's a very strong team.
We're going to use December and January to really align our priorities and be ready to stand up in front of the company and in front of you with very clear priorities and a renewed focus as we go into next year.
With that let me hand it back to Glenn.
Thank you Art.
Art has to leave the call now because he has to attend to a number of other matters.
But Sabrina and I will be here to answer any questions related to the changes with our brand presidents.
But before we get to that I'd like to talk a little bit about Q3 and Q4.
Then for sure we look forward to answering any questions you have.
When I think about the third quarter my observation is we weren't as successful commercially as I wanted the business to be.
With a minus-2% comp on a two-year basis that was minus-1% now inside of that Old Navy certainly was stronger than the other brands but I think Stefan Larsson is doing some very good work at Old Navy that hopefully can build every single quarter as we go forward.
So commercially we learnt a lot of lessons.
The team continues to commit to making our business stronger and stronger every single season.
But a company like Gap Inc.
with our six brands inside of our portfolio I don't think anybody here ever thinks that we should negative comp but it just makes no sense.
So what does happen to us I think the team gets more invigorated more focused.
Tenacity which is such an important part of being a successful retailer comes through but I think we're turning that tenacity to positive energy as we look at the fourth quarter.
But I would then look at that and say we had a much better quarter when it comes to the work done by our finance team the one-time tax benefit and the cash that we now have inside the company to buy back more shares or to give us flexibility to buy back more shares.
And also the work that was done this year buyback in the quarter buying over $400 million of shares.
So I definitely tip my hat to Sabrina and her team and have told everybody else on the commercial revenue side of the business we need to do better.
Now we had some accomplishments in the quarter.
In China we opened our 100th store for Gap brand.
I think that's exciting.
That's great progress.
And you heard me talk about Jeff Kirwan earlier.
And Old Navy continues to do very well inside of China.
So I think that combination we feel very good about as we look at China becoming the second most important country to Gap Inc.
as we go forward.
We did a lot of good work on omni-channel and how is the company going to differentiate itself with our competitive advantages.
We have over 1 000 stores with Wi-Fi.
We will have a lot more of those done in the first quarter of next year.
We have 1 000 stores and we do order in store.
And so I think you'll see the omni-channel part of our business the unique parts of that really drive sales for us in the fourth quarter.
I think the work on the margin rate while I wasn't happy and really nobody in this company is happy with a minus-2% comp the work done on the margin rate was actually pretty strong.
So I'm pleased with that.
One change we made which we haven't talked about a lot is now our biggest distribution center which is in New York state we've now put an online pop-up inside of a store distribution center.
So that's the beginning of our vision of seamless inventory.
But what does it mean for 2014 holiday is we're going to extend the last date to ship to customers and it gives us a lot of flexibility on the East Coast which is our biggest market allows us to save a little bit of money when it comes to shipping expense.
So I think that's a very good step will help us in the P&amp;L in the fourth quarter but is a cornerstone of what seamless inventory will look in Gap Inc.
And of course the quarter was about succession less than the announcements we made today but a lot about a month ago when I announced that I'll be leaving the company as Chairman and CEO January 31st.
And we have this incredible internal executive who is going to step up in Art Peck.
That's probably the biggest news inside of the quarter.
Right now we're a couple of weeks inside of Q4.
We're excited about our opportunity to compete and to win.
You heard in our recent sales announcement I put out.
I do believe we have improved assortment in terms of the mix of our assortment.
I think the team has done a very good job on products for the fourth quarter.
Our customer communications are the best I've seen from us put forward in the holiday season.
We've been planning this for the last nine months putting them in place and now it's up to the teams and our mobile business our e-commerce business our store teams and everybody around the world to go out and execute.
This is all about execution.
I'm here right till the end of the fourth quarter working with the teams in stores pushing execution aggressively because we are committed to one another to finish the year strong.
So with that said I'm going to hand it over now back to Katrina and we'll take any questions we have from the analysts.
Thank you everybody.
Great.
That concludes our prepared remarks and we'll now open up the call to questions.
As a reminder I have Glenn and Sabrina here to take Q&amp;A.
And we'd appreciate limiting your questions to one per person.
[Operator Instructions] We will go first to Ed Yruma with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
I think when you last spoke you were looking for some sign of hope within product with Gap brand.
Obviously you're not guiding to any kind of financial improvement.
But are you starting to see either signs of greater customer acceptance? Are you seeing some of this more optimistic color palette work? Any insight there would be helpful.
We're not going to talk about because the optimistic color you're referring to is the collection of the flow we just dropped about two weeks which is anchored in crazy stripes which is something we did seven years ago with fresh marketing.
Look we're pretty honest I think recently on the sales call that we really thought that we would see some signs of improvement in our September and October flow from Gap.
I mean there's a few green chutes here and there in certain categories which I guess when you look we're going to be investing our inventory going forward or in categories that showed a little bit of improvement in the third quarter.
So I think that's a good sign.
It's a combination of the aesthetic we know has to continue to evolve and evolve quickly.
And I believe some of that improvement will be in place either in the store today or in separate flows we have come in on the Monday after Thanksgiving I think on December 15th and again in the first week of January.
We're next to full this year for Gap which will provide more newness to the business.
I think that improvement is in place on the flows I just talked about but it's not enough to take us to a place where we've been satisfied.
There's been some better work done similar to Old Navy on the actual assortment and the investment of inventory in the parts of the business which we do feel good.
So Gap brand we feel good about our baby business.
We feel good about our Gap fit business.
We feel good about our outerwear business.
There's certain parts we have with the inventory to match where we had evidence that we were starting to get the product to resonate much better than you've seen in the first nine months of this year.
So a little early on Q4.
I think the extra flow was going to help but we look forward to talking to people every single month because that's our commitment in giving you updates on our performance and trying to answer more specifically the question about signs of positive acceptance by customers at Gap brand.
We will go next to Anna Andreeva with Oppenheimer &amp; Company.
Just on guidance for implied down earnings for the fourth quarter.
Can you talk about if this is based on what you're seeing so far in November or is this is a more conservative stance ahead of the holiday? And on the gross margin the implied decline I guess in the range of 100 basis points give or take you guys have an easier comparison.
Just trying to understand what is driving that degradation given inventories are clean and Glenn you sound more encouraged about the product at the Gap division.
Yeah with regard to guidance I would say we just saw that prudent given performance year-to-date to be grounded in that performance.
And so the basis for the guidance is really our year-to-date performance in sales and comp.
And then as I said it also assumes Gap brand doesn't have any meaningful change in trend from what we've seen year-to-date.
I would add to that comment as I said in my remarks the fact that in Q4 we really expect more foreign exchange headwinds than we did in Q3 as well.
If you think about the yen alone the average rate was about 105 in Q3.
And as of today it's about 118 which is a 12% depreciation.
So that's an importance piece to keep in mind as well.
And we will go next to Betty Chen with Mizuho Securities.
I was wondering if you can talk a little bit more about the potential shipping benefit Glenn I think you alluded to earlier.
We have also noticed that the brand started to test a lot more of the two-day shipping which we expect shoppers to probably welcome.
Can you talk to us about any initial learnings on the receptivity of the two-day shipping program and any quantification on what the potential savings could be for 2015? I think this is all part of what I could call a longer-term plan under this definition.
It's not a well marketed theme but it's called seamless inventory for us.
So how we've learned to get to this point to the decision we made in our New York store distribution facility is China today runs in a seamless inventory where the inventory for online customers and for stores are in the same building.
As a matter of fact the step to purity on this trend is on the shelf in the same building.
Athleta runs this way.
Japan runs right now not on the same shelf but in the same building.
And we just changed our situation in Europe about six months ago where we had a separate online building and we consolidated that into the store distribution center.
So I think we've been thoughtful about going around the US and trying to get some learnings.
And so far it's what you want to get from this.
Can you save money over time? The answer should be yes.
But the real benefit here is the benefit on gross margin dollars basically sending a unit to let's call it for now the highest bidder who will pay the highest AUR.
That could be an online customer or could be a store that's exhibiting stronger AUR performance.
And I think that's what seamless inventory eventually gets at.
What we did the distribution center in New York we had some excess capacity.
Right now we ship to online customers from Columbus and from Phoenix.
As delivery time has become more of a table stakes we decided to use some of that capacity in New York but it's all part of the strategic direction on seamless and we popped up about 300 000 square feet of online inventory in that distribution.
We own the land.
It wasn't that costly.
So just put the IT system and we are actually shipping to Eastern side of the country from New York down to Florida we're shipping out of the New York D.C.
So could we get some benefit in terms of expense? We hope so.
It's really more about expediting and trying to do some of the two-day events you talked about.
That's the answer because coming into Q4 we're trying to find a better balance between our value proposition also known as promotions and our service proposition driven by delivery opportunities and also driven by omni-channel.
So how was the twp-day free gone? I think we're pleased with that.
We're pleased with it as long as the incremental cost of the expense of doing that is more than made up by the benefit of gross margin because we're going to continue the same depth of discount and then go to two day well that's not a smart decision.
So far I think customers and we're obviously excited about.
As a company that owns brands we'd rather have a better balance of our value proposition to our service offering.
And you're seeing us putting some of that forward and even more of that will happen in Q4.
We will go next to Kimberly Greenberger with Morgan Stanley.
My question is on e-commerce.
Sabrina I just wanted to clarify does your guidance imply that the negative-1% comp that we saw here in the third quarter continues into Q4 or were you not that specific? And Glenn I just wanted to ask about e-commerce.
The e-commerce strategies and the digital strategies of this company have been really compelling here for a number of years.
We're seeing a pretty big slowdown in e-commerce sales growth here in 2014 and I think the growth rate here in the third quarter was only about 5%.
So is it simply product that is holding back the growth rate in e-commerce or is there something else going on that's making it more difficult to grow that business over time? I'll just start with a clarification Kimberly.
It is a range.
So I would say that the range is kind of grounded on this year-to-date trend that yes we have seen a negative-1% year-to-date comp and a plus-1% sales.
But you can get to numbers within that range with different configurations.
But I would say yes it's grounded in that notion.
And on the 5% growth in the third quarter part of my opening comments was we had some accomplishments in the quarter.
There were some areas we were disappointed.
That was clearly a disappointment.
It's a little bit about product.
Last year we had a 20% comp which I think was a pretty strong growth market leading but something we should be doing given the investments we're making.
So a two-year 25% we were not happy with that at all.
And the team is very focused.
And omni-channel initiatives are not all about driving online sales.
Matter of fact in some cases reserve in store and order in store to drive more productivity inside our physical assets but I completely agree with you Kimberly and I know that brand presidents supported by Art have had lots of conversations about that particular 5% growth.
We gained share in Q3 of 2013 and we gave up some of it in Q3 of 2014.
And we're not into the borrowing share business.
We're into the gaining share and keeping it.
So I think that we're not happy about.
I think it's a quarter.
I agree with you this year has kind of slowed down as well but this was a particular quarter where we're not happy.
And I think we're on it and some changes we made to make sure we get back to gaining share online.
We'll go next to Matt McClintock with Barclays.
One quick clarification question Sabrina is the one-time tax benefit and the asset sale in the second quarter both included in guidance for the full year? Yeah they absolutely are and that's GAAP guidance.
And the full year tax rate as I said Matt has come down slightly from 38.5% to 38% to reflect the benefit of the Q3 non-recurring issue.
And then if I may ask a longer-term question Glenn as we look into the holiday season it sounds like there's optimism for some of the e-commerce initiatives order in store et cetera to potentially benefit and drive holiday sales.
Are you planning for any benefit from these initiatives as you start your plans for holiday? And then now that you're rolling out order in store to over 1 000 locations could you maybe give us some update on what you're seeing in terms of what you've seen in the benefit how that's impacting sales in those stores? I'd say Matt that we didn't plan for any of it because we just turned the switch on to the 1 000 stores on I guess it was in the first day of the new quarter.
So we worked our way from 10 stores to 50 stores to a couple of hundred.
And then we made a big leap.
Art's team did from just around 250 to 1 000 almost overnight because we had everything set up and the technology was working.
So our stores actually have been trained well before that.
They were ready to go.
They're excited about it.
Here're the benefits as far as I can tell.
Numbers that I've given internally and I think externally before are something like this on average in the apparel business conversion is around 30% which means that 70% of your customers that do not convert in that 70% there's about 10 points of people who come in and can't find what they want.
Purchase intent high but unable to find and now that could be in somebody else's hands it could be in the fitting room it could be in something in the retail business called the go-backs product that people did not decide to go with it but to put back on to the shelf or could be and the highest percent of that is we just don't have that item in that size or color in the store.
So order in store is intended to change the paradigm of the conversation that's been going on for multiple generations which is can I get this in a size 8 and our natural answer is I'm sorry.
While we could go to the phone and that takes about eight minutes to do a charge sent from another store.
So what's been developed by Art's team is this amazing way to instantaneously change the conversation from we don't have it but I can get it for you and our team is really you'll see through the holiday season have been retrained and thinking about that is the conversation close the sale.
So actually I'm pretty excited about it.
I'm still excited about reserve in store.
I think order in store has always been on our roadmap that can add more potential than reserve in store.
So I think going forward not for this holiday season but in the new year the real opportunity of that also is if you look at a fleet of Old Navy with 1 000 stores there's about 25 what I call fly ship and signature stores.
They have the full assortment.
Well now the other 1 000 stores customers in those locations can see the full assortment because our team will continue to be trained to say I know you saw that or you read about it it's not available in the store but I can get it for you.
The first orders to the DC 90% of the product is going to come from our online distribution channel but some could come from another store.
Exposing the full assortment to a customer at a physical location I think is a huge opportunity for this business in the new year.
I know Art is seeing how the innovation the development came from his team that he runs now the digital area.
We'll go next to Neely Tamminga with Piper Jaffray.
Sabrina could we get a little bit more color on the reduction in CapEx either in terms of what the projects that might be canceled and/or delayed or reevaluated? Would you say if there are delays that they delayed more kind of indefinitely or just will we see another bump-up in next year's CapEx to make for that reduction? Zooming out philosophically it's just important to say because we're strong believers in managing the ROIC.
We just feel it's very important that if our outlook in earnings is coming down that we should be revising the amount of capital spend we have in a year.
And so at the highest level we felt like with the earnings guidance coming down it was important to re-look at capital.
And that's why we're cropping it back a bit.
With regard to where it's coming from it is primarily coming from Gap because we also want to reward the businesses that are delivering return and we look to crop back those where we are not getting return in the short term.
Obviously we never want to do anything that damages our long-term strategies.
So all of our growth areas our growth initiatives growth in China our omni-channel all of that is moving forward as planned.
But we did crop back primarily Gap brand and primarily in the area of stores.
Store remodels is where we've cropped it back and we'll be revisiting the importance of that in 2015 in terms of whether it becomes an incremental spend or whether it's just out.
We'll go next to Dorothy Lakner with Topeka Capital Markets.
I wondered Glenn you gave some thoughts I think about what categories in a larger sense are working at Gap brand.
I wondered if you could drill down a little bit in terms of third quarter tops and bottoms men's and women's are there things within those categories that are working outside of the big buckets that you mentioned earlier? The theme is pretty much the same as we've said in the first half of the year.
We went to the third quarter still not happy with our women's business and it's important that we continue to try to grow upon it especially when it comes to the aesthetic.
But the point I was making earlier is even though everything starts with design aesthetic if the product is assertive in categories that have natural growth then that's also the job of a great merchant beyond just what the design team provides.
We've had a tough year like so many others on just indigo five-pocket denims.
We reward people quite a bit here in the merchant side and the inventory management side that turn that inventory down and to change the assortment we have.
So thank God we went to one tool in our tool set that helps us with response from supply chain and that's vendor managed inventory.
If we didn't have that which we should have had to be honest with you a number of years ago when we've had it fully working for 12 months that allowed us very quickly to turn off the tap of inventory on five-pocket denim and switching to not other denim although we are seeing some performance across the total business on our fashion denims especially in distressed but we just switched that into pants.
So I think that when you're invested in bottoms the way we're across our entire businesses when you're invested in Gap in denim and indigo denim the ability to be faster than we've been before and we're not going to set any land speed records today although we are getting faster and I know under Art's leadership we plan to get even faster in 2015.
But we have to use some of these tools to adjust the assortment.
What I was trying to say it's a Gap brand for sure but definitely there is a Gap brand component to this in The Gap Inc.
I think we've done some much better work this year beyond the aesthetic to really understand where the growth is.
And a lot of this Dorothy gets validated when we look at the department store results but we always study about what's working that is our best chance besides our market data we have and the customer research we do is to get a sense of what's working in Macy's what's working in Nordstrom.
So the fact that we have put more inventory to active outerwear accessories at Gap at Old Navy and baby and we find a better balance between our definition of fashion product or what I call unexpected styles Gap in particular you'll see that in the December flow versus what people just expect from us year in year out I think all of those shifts have been well executed.
We have a ton of work to do at Gap brand in particular but I think Old Navy is further ahead of curve Banana Republic is further ahead of curve.
And some of these categories that in the macroenvironment are doing better I'm glad that we've shifted some inventory especially starting next week with some of the flow we get in before black Friday shifting some of the inventory to what we know is actually growing in the total market.
We'll go next to John Morris with BMO Capital Markets.
Glenn first of all thank you for all your hard work and congratulations and we look forward to working with Art if he's still listening in.
My question for Sabrina.
Just rewinding on SG&amp;A we know that you had sort of walked that increase down a little bit part way through the quarter quite a big move.
Just refresh for us why it was going from about an 8% increase down to where you came in nicely at 3%.
But more so the implications for fourth quarter could there be also a little bit of wiggle room there as well beyond what you had implied with the guidance? I'm wondering if it has to do with maybe pulling back on the marketing spend and maybe if Glenn can talk a little bit about whether or not this was a decision to pull back evenly across the brands.
You might recall we've often said that a large part of our expense base so about 50% of our expense base is related to stores and over half of that is variable to sales.
So part of the reason the expense came down John is one that we're not happy about which is just as sales came down to flat we actually gained more expense savings given we have a variable chunk of expense to sales.
So that's one component.
The second component or the rest of the components were really a combination of old fashioned belt tightening including savings in areas like bonus and areas like favorability in credit card income.
Additionally we got a little bit of foreign exchange favorability.
So just as foreign exchange hurts your sales and hurts your earnings when you translate to SG&amp;A dollars it helps your SG&amp;A.
So I'd say those were the biggest reasons that Q3 came in better.
We have many of the same factors at work in Q4.
We're going to continue to manage expenses tightly but I think the important thing to remember about Q4 is it is our toughest quarter in terms of comparison because now we are lapping the fact that we saved over $100 million in Q4 of '13 versus Q4 of '12.
And we leveraged the 150 basis point.
It actually was our lowest percent of sales clearly in the last five years and maybe even beyond that.
So it's an extremely low base we're lapping on which is why again we say clearly we expect to deleverage even as we do our best to manage expenses as we always do very disciplined.
And I didn't know if Glenn wanted to comment on the marketing if there was a pullback there? I would say that some of our marketing is booked and planned.
It's not like our store expenses has a variable component to it.
But I think we're kind of coming into the year flat to last year as a starting point.
And the way Sabrina categorized return on invested capital and the decision to reconsider remodels for Gap I think we look at marketing the same way.
We have to invest where we think we're going to get the best return.
So Gap is going to have marketing.
We have a new gift guide out which is doing really well and we feel very good about that.
But it's electronic so those are trade-offs we do.
We could have gift guide distributed to our best customers call it 3 million 4 million people and that would have cost x per copy.
So thoughtfully we actually put a little bit more money into the digital side of it.
It's so far so good.
The money we put into it when you have the digital gift guide which changes every day on Gap you can actually click on to something you love that'll take you right to our site.
So we felt it was more prudent to put a little bit of money behind that choice as opposed to mailing out 4 million copies.
So it's those kinds of choices we're making.
We're especially bullish on the marketing quality we're seeing coming out of Old Navy.
I think that I'm not translating that to commercial success for anybody on the phone.
I'm just saying we're really feeling good about the work they're doing and the quality of content they're putting together which you'll see some of the new content coming out next Wednesday before Thanksgiving.
I was lucky enough to spend time with Stefan last night and saw the full December slate of content and he was excited I was excited.
So they're going to get their fair share of investment because their business is stronger and their content is very good.
We will take our final question from Jennifer Davis with Buckingham Research Group.
Sabrina I was hoping maybe for a little more color I guess or clarification around fourth quarter guidance.
Can you at least maybe help us in terms of how much gross margin pressure you expect versus SG&amp;A? And then on the third quarter gross margin or merchandise margins is the credit card income in merchandise margins and how much did that impact merchandise margins? Just a reminder Jennifer we do have that reclass going on all year in credit card income.
So just like previous quarters we have about $40 million that last year had all been in SG&amp;A of credit card income going up into margin.
So that's definitely happened in the third quarter.
It'll happen again in the fourth quarter.
I would say most of the favorability I talked about previously was really that hit mostly SG&amp;A.
A small amount also of favorability went into margins but mostly SG&amp;A.
And then with regard to guidance we really are trying to keep it high level.
I gave you some points on my prepared remarks could be helpful about some of the underlying assumptions.
But again we just believe in this environment that we've been operating in all year that it's important to be prudent and grounded in what we've experienced year-to-date.
So just to refresh a little bit on what I said because I don't want to get into every single line item of the P&amp;L that definitely that range is grounded in year-to-date trends in sales and comps.
And no meaningful improvement in Gap and I think the big change versus previous quarters especially as compared to Q3 is the foreign exchange because the dollar had strengthened considerably against currencies that matter to us not only the yen but also the pound and also the Canadian dollar.
So I think those factors taken together against the backdrop this year that's been not a bullish backdrop for our company and our apparel retailing.
We thought that was an appropriate range to set for now.
Great.
I'd like to thank everyone for joining us on the call today.
And as a reminder both press releases which are available on gapinc.com one contains the full recap of our third quarter results and the other contains a recap of today's leadership announcements as well as the forward-looking guidance included in our prepared remarks.
And as always the Investor Relations team is available after the call for further questions.
Thank you.
Thank you.
That does conclude our conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
My name is Amber and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to The Gap Inc.
Fourth Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to introduce your host Katrina O'Connell Vice President of Investor Relations.
Good afternoon everyone.
Welcome to Gap Inc.'s fourth quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Before we begin I'd like to remind you that the information made available on this webcast and conference call contains forward-looking statements.
For information on factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements as well as reconciliations or descriptions of measures we're required to reconcile to GAAP financial measures please refer to today's earnings press release as well as our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and our subsequent filings with the SEC all of which are available on gapinc.com.
These forward-looking statements are based on information as of February 26 2015 and we assume no obligation to publicly update or revise our forward-looking statements.
I also want to mention that Sabrina will be using slides to supplement her remarks which you can view by going to the Investor Relations section at gapinc.com.
Joining us on the call today are CEO Art Peck; and Executive Vice President and CFO Sabrina Simmons.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Sabrina.
Thank you Katrina.
Good afternoon everyone.
Let me start with some highlights for the year and then I will go through Q4 results before turning to the outlook for 2015.
For the full year EPS grew about 10% excluding the estimated year over year impact from foreign exchange.
On a reported basis our earnings per share for the full year grew 5%.
Our largest brand Old Navy delivered positive comps in each quarter and finished the year with a strong 11% comp in Q4.
We achieved our goal of leveraging expenses.
At 25.6% of sales our SG&amp;A rate was the lowest since 2005.
We generated free cash flow of $1.4 billion and distributed about $1.6 billion to shareholders through share purchases and dividends.
Moving to the fourth quarter and full year financial results regarding earnings theres been quite a bit of focus on the recent strengthening of the US dollar and its impact to 2015 earnings which Ill address of course in the outlook.
But its important to note that weve already absorbed a great deal of foreign exchange headwind 2014.
Full-year net earnings were $1.26 billion and earnings per share were $2.87.
This includes about $0.14 unfavorable impact from foreign exchange.
The FX impact was most pronounced in the fourth quarter.
Excluding the estimated year over year impact from foreign exchange Q4 earnings per share grew about 20% versus last year.
On a reported basis net income was $319 million and earnings per share increased 10% to $0.75 per share.
Turning to sales sales for the fourth quarter were $4.7 billion and increased 5% on a constant currency basis.
Comp sales were up 2%.
For the full year net sales were up 2% to $16.4 billion and up 3% on a constant currency basis driven by Old Navys strength.
Comparable sales were flat for the year.
Moving to gross margins fourth quarter gross profit increased by $65 million to $1.7 billion and gross margin expanded by 40 basis points to 35.2%.
Merchandise margins were up 60 basis points for the quarter and rent and occupancy deleveraged 20 basis points.
For the full year gross profit was $6.3 billion and gross margin was down 70 basis points to 38.3%.
At the beginning of 2014 we stated that foreign exchange would likely pressure our merchandise margins.
For the year merchandise margins were down 40 basis points driven by the FX impact as well as disappointing performance at Gap brand.
As anticipated rent and occupancy deleveraged by 30 basis points.
Regarding SG&amp;A for the fourth quarter total operating expenses were $1.1 billion with marketing expenses at $178 million slightly below last year.
Total operating expenses for the year were $4.2 billion and leveraged 10 basis points despite moving $160 million of credit card income out of SG&amp;A and into merchandise margin.
Marketing expenses for the year were $639 million about flat to last year.
Regarding stores and capital expenditures we opened 116 new company-operated stores in 2014 net of closures.
In line with our strategy international store growth was focused primarily in Asia and North America store growth was focused on our outlet channel and Athleta.
Not surprisingly closures were focused on Gap specialty North America.
Our square footage grew by 2.4% in line with our guidance.
Store counts and square footage by division are in our press release.
Regarding the balance sheet and cash flow as we stated would be the case we improved inventory levels throughout the year.
Inventory dollars per store were down 5.5% at the end of the fourth quarter.
This was better than our previous guidance driven by foreign exchange favorability and stronger than expected sell through at Old Navy.
We ended the year with about $1.5 billion in cash after having distributed about $1.6 billion to shareholders.
Ending share count was 421 million shares.
And now Id like to share our outlook for 2015.
Regarding earnings per share on a reported basis we expect earnings per share to be in the range of $2.75 and $2.80.
Included in this guidance is an estimated unfavorable impact from foreign exchange at current spot rates of about $0.16.
And unfavorable impact of about $0.13 due to the West Coast port situation and an expectation for slower turnaround at Gap brand.
Excluding the impacts of foreign exchange the port issues and last years gain on sale our underlying expected EPS growth rate for 2015 would be about 12 percentage points higher or about 9% EPS growth at its midpoint.
Now let me address the port issue.
While weve been managing the slowdown at the port for some time its the additional weekend closures in February and the resulting additional backlog that are driving the expected negative impact to earnings.
In simple terms the first quarter is impacted by having fewer units available for sale.
Its important to note that this is particularly impactful to Old Navy given the importance of the Easter holiday to Old Navys business.
Additionally the second quarter is impacted by late units arriving in Q2 and potentially being sold at lower margins given that fall flows come in shortly thereafter.
Regarding your inventory guidance excluding the impact from the port situation we would have expected inventory dollars per store to be slightly down at the end of the first quarter.
Given the fluidity of the situation well provide an update on inventory later in the quarter.
Moving on to the impact of foreign exchange to the year ahead at current spot rates we estimate that foreign exchange will negatively impact our reported EPS growth rate by about 6 percentage points.
This equates to about $0.16 or over $100 million of pre-tax earnings.
While comp is reported on a constant currency basis the remainder of our reported performance is subject to currency fluctuations.
As a reminder our largest foreign subsidiaries are in Canada and Japan with combined sales in these two countries of over $2 billion.
Both the Japanese yen and the Canadian dollar have depreciated by about 30% over the past two years.
With the continuing depreciation of these and other currencies against the dollar our reported results have been and are expected to be negatively impacted.
There are two primary impacts of foreign exchange.
The first is translation and the second impact is the economic impact to our merchandise margin.
We hedge the majority for inventory purchases for our foreign subsidiaries 12 to 18 months in advance.
Effectively this delays the impact of depreciating foreign currencies on most of our cost of goods.
However as the old hedge rates lapse and new less favorable hedge rates come on the cost of goods in local currencies will increase.
In addition unhedged inventory purchases will be subject to foreign exchange movements.
Moving to expenses and operating margins we have a strong track record of managing expenses and we intend to continue that.
However its unlikely well leverage expenses in 2015.
As a reminder we are lapping the $39 million gain on sale as well less absorbing the increase to our minimum hourly wage that we announced last year.
Given the negative impact from foreign exchange the port issues and last years gain on sale we expect operating margins to be down about a point to 2014 on a reported basis.
However excluding these three factors we expected operating margin on an underlying basis would modestly expand.
Here are some other guidance metrics.
We expect to add 115 net new stores with our year end store base in China into over 150 stores and Athleta store base growing to 120 total stores.
Square footage is expected to increase about 2.5% we expect capital expenditures to be about $800 million with the increased focus on omnichannel and supply chain capabilities we expect depreciation and amortization to be about $525 million and we expect our full year effective tax rate to be about 38%.
Finally we remain very committed to our principle of returning excess cash to shareholders underscoring that commitment we are pleased to have announced a new $1 billion share repurchase authorization and our intent to again increase the dividend to $0.92 per share.
As we enter 2015 we remain focused on using all of our levers to further drive value for our shareholders.
Thank you.
And now Ill turn it over to Art.
Thank you Sabrina and good afternoon.
Its really a pleasure to be here addressing all of you.
And before I go into anything concerning the business and looking forward I would be remiss not to thank Glenn for everything that he has done for the company his tireless effort over the last eight years what he brought the company in terms of vision strategy discipline and most importantly results and I have to thank him as well for everything he did as we worked shoulder-shoulder over the last few months during this transition time.
We as a team feel that he was incredibly helpful to all of us in effecting a smooth transition in sharing his perspective on what we need to do going forward and then allowing the team to get settled in to hit the ground running in 2015.
So again I need to thank him on behalf of myself and the team for everything that he has done.
So Ive been in the job now for officially about three weeks.
I am very bullish on the future of this company.
We have great brands with tremendous potential I am extremely pleased with that being that is now in place and equally pleased with the consistent sense of urgency that every member of my team has in making the changes that we need to make to compete successfully and consistently.
Product is critical for us and consistent product season after season appropriate to our brands is nonnegotiable.
As I look forward I first want to talk about where we are today.
Let me spend a moment and talk about the guidance that Sabrina gave to you.
To be clear I fully believe in the economic model that we have articulated and that we have been executing over the last several years.
That said there are three issues that are going to affect our performance in 2015 the two are macro issues with foreign exchange and the port situation and the third is the performance of Gap brand.
I want to double-click for a moment on Gap none of us are satisfied with the performance that we are seeing at Gap.
I made a very quick change with senior leadership there.
I did this because we were not seeing the performance improvement in the business that we needed to see and specifically I was not seeing the womens product back on track the way it needed to be for the brand to perform to its potential.
Jeff and I are together focused on what we need to do in order to get the brand back on track and it starts with riding the womens business.
Theres an aesthetic issue which were working on today with urgency were pleased to see that the denim business seems to be showing signs of life but Gap as a brand is much more than denim and we need to have the womens business hitting on all cylinders in order for the business to deliver the performance that we expect.
2015 is largely bought really through fall right now Jeff and the team are focused on making product changes that they can make but those will be modest and incremental until we get to the late in the year.
Holiday is under significant scrutiny now Ive looked at it Jeff has looked at it the team is focused on it to make as much improvement as we can before you buy the product.
Let me quickly refresh your memory.
In early 2011 I sat in the same seat that Jeff is sitting in right now at Gap brand.
I know from my experience and Im sharing this with Jeff that we can get the brand back on track quickly with a relentless focus on products.
When Jeff got into his role he moved quickly to make some changes on his team.
The obvious hole has been the leader of design and Im very pleased to announce today that Jeff has hired Wendy Goldman who will be rejoining our company in a new role as Head of Design and Product Development for the brand.
Ive gotten to know Wendy over the course of the last few months and I feel very confident that she will be a strong creative leader and a significant addition to the team.
She knows our company from 8 years here early in her career and more importantly she brings her experience from a very successful 11 year run at Limited Brands.
Again 2015 is going to be a year of hard work in getting the brand back on track.
But I am very pleased that we have the team largely in place who will be doing that work.
Now that said I am bullish on where we are overall as a company.
The consistency of performance that weve seen with Old Navy really premised on the back of season after season products that is on trend and on brand gives me a deal of confidence and its the product work that Stefan and his team have done around how they think about trend how they build the assortment and how they line up all elements of the business to express the brand consistently through marketing product and in-stores.
Im very happy with what Im seeing with the team at Banana Republic.
Andi has excellent taste she understands the brand and she has been one of our most consistent operators inside the company having worked directly with me in a number of roles.
Andi and I both expect more from the brand.
April is Marissa's first product flow.
We saw fall presented last week at fashion week to a very good reception and reaction.
And so were committed to continuing to move Banana forward the proof is always in the product that were putting in the stores but were excited about what we see and have high expectations.
Let me spend just a moment then on Athleta.
Were excited about what we are seeing there and we are excited about the continued growth both in the active space and in the space where active meet her ready to wear wardrobe.
You also have seen given how excited we are the fact that we continue to push on fit inside of Gap and on the active expression inside of Old Navy as well.
And so this is a space that not only through Athleta but as a company were very committed to.
Over the course of 2014 we made significant progress in the omnichannel space and we are very excited about the customer response there so far and we are pushing forward to roll out all of the capabilities across our brands in North America as quickly as possible.
On top of omnichannel I just want to spend a moment really more broadly on experience.
And if you've been following some of the changes that we've made you would have noted that we brought together the traditional marketing activities and our digital business inside both Gap and Banana Republic.
Why am I excited about that? I am excited about that because today the digital expression of our brand is the primary way that our customers engage in our brands.
And if you look at our traffic the bulk of our traffic is coming into our digital properties and I'm convinced that going forward we will win or lose at our digital leased line.
Historically our websites needed to be and have been tremendously effective and efficient channels that our customer bought through.
We need to continue to be that going forward but our digital expression of the brand needs to be more than that.
It needs to be aspirational holistic emotional in a way that few people have expressed their brands digitally.
And we are focused on doing that across all of our businesses.
I want to spend a minute on global growth.
Glenn and I worked shoulder to shoulder to create this strategy and growth that we have been pursuing at consistently over the last several years.
It is my intent to continue to pursue growth and obviously through all of our brands and most importantly through Old Navy's expansion into China and Japan.
We continue to open stores in China with the plan for this year being about 40 stores which is consistent with our store opening over the last year or so as well.
Let me close just by coming back to a little bit to where I started.
I'm very excited to be sitting in this role.
I'm very optimistic about the prospects that the company has in front of it I'm also very asked and objective and have a great deal of urgency about some of the work that we need to do to get parts of the business back on track.
I can give you my strong assurance that I and my team are resolutely committed to doing what's necessary in order to make that happen that as quickly as possible.
Thank you.
Katrina I will pass it back to you.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
Well now open the open up the call to questions and wed appreciate limiting your questions to one per person.
[Operator Instructions] And we will go first to Barbara Wyckoff with CSLA.
When will Gap and Old Navy be in a place where they can react in season to accelerate the flow of bestsellers through the fabric platforming initiatives? And if it's not happening yet when will this start to occur? Thanks.
So here is the reality we are actually set up to do that today and we are continuing to grow that capability not just in Gap and Old Navy but across all three of our big brands.
It logically connects to the question obviously of the port situation and Ill address that proactively here which is that with Gap in particular the port situation for one thing that is something that is very short-term and really outside what we've built in terms of our responsive supply chain we've reacted to that through logistics and I'll let Sabrina talk more about that I'm sure that will come up.
With Gap and the aesthetic corrections that we need to do what I'd like to be able to tell you is we can correct it with the response in supply chain capabilities that we've built.
The reality is that we're more rebooting some of the aesthetic elements with brand those are capabilities that are set up to help us more in season with chase and open to buy and those types of things.
So it's really the little bit disconnected from the palm that we have in Gap right now.
But I'm working very closely with Sonia Syngal who is our Head of Supply Chain and Product Operations as well as the brand presidents and these are capabilities that we've talked about before we are continuing to build them and we are very bullish about their ability to impact the business.
And we will go next to John Morris of BMO Capital Markets.
I guess kind of a big picture question for you Art.
You touched on a number of the initiatives.
I think we can get a pretty clear sense of the priorities you've got mapped out clearly likely beginning with Gap women's.
But beyond that maybe first of all if you can talk a little bit more about how you would rank those other priorities? What you really want to address in the coming year but also an eye towards any initiatives this year that might be different from the course that was charted most recently in the past under Glenn.
Thanks.
So clearly Gap is at the top of my priority list.
As I said a few minutes ago none of us are happy with the performance not me not Jeff not the team and so we're very focused on fixing that as quickly as possible.
If I look back and step back from that a little bit as Gap is doing that work to itself right now there are the broader strategic priorities and we will talk more about those obviously over the course of next several months.
I would remind everybody that I think I'm day 26 or something like that so still bringing the team together.
That all said and I said this before when we spoke a quarter ago I don't want to communicate at all that there is going to be a big shift at the end of our priorities.
Product is absolutely critical to us and underneath product as a priority our responsive supply chain capabilities our seamless inventory capabilities fabric platforming obviously design and design talent all supercritical.
And when I'm talking product inside and outside the company its on brand on trend product but consistently.
And that consistency issue is one of the things that I'm really focused on.
And in the second issue is really for me its experience and on the experience it's the omnichannel the physical and the digital experience and how all of that comes together.
So it's really about in my words powering up our focus on those as much as anything rather than deviating from them.
And then of course global growth which I referenced and I just want to come back to which is we are committed to continuing to build out our global structure and to put consistent product appropriate to our brands and on trend season after season not a lot deviation at all from those as our priorities.
And we will go next to Adrianne Neve with Janney Capital Markets I was wondering if you could  obviously it goes without saying that product is paramount but if you could address where you see further opportunities to incorporate technology into the business to either drive sales or improve and enhance the operational aspects of the business? Thank you.
Some of what we  and I appreciate the question that was a good one for me since I'm passionate about this as well as a number of other things.
I think as we said we are really continuing to push these omnichannel capabilities which have been for us more what I would call spot capabilities so reserve in store shipping from store finding store and now we are testing mobile POS which we talked about before knowing now how the customer is reacting to those having learned a lot about how it comes together to form a customer value proposition and now starting to integrate them into a more holistic offer that's really the focus and it's going to be the focus over 2015.
We are testing mobile POS right now which is really as we've been talking about as we push our POS to really a cloud-based POS that brings all of our web services in we've been testing that on a small device in stores and both the sales associates and the customers have been reacting incredibly positively for that.
And so it starts to open up a number of things for us different ways of interacting with our customers giving the sales associates those tools different ways of engaging with those customers in a sitting room where we can actually get a transaction done.
Of course you pivot back to what does that mean to the real estate that we currently have committed the church that we've built for Easter Sunday if you will with all of the registers at the front of the store can we start thinking about putting some of that real estate to more efficient use and underutilized registers for much of the year.
And so those are all things that we're absolutely focused on it's well past proof of concept both in terms of technology as well as how customers engage and you will see us continue to push those out over the course of this year.
And we will go next to Simeon Siegel with Nomura Securities.
What's the right way to think about the other segment sales and profitability line as you guys close Piperlime and any update on the intermix business and the opportunities there? Thanks.
So the others primarily going to be Athleta Intermix and Piperlime.
It is being impacted your point by the fact that we are winding down Piperlime.
So that's one of the primary impacts.
Athleta continues to be on a very good path so we are very pleased with the year and how it's all gone.
And we will go next to Lorraine Hutchinson of Bank of America Merrill Lynch As you think about product purchases for the back half what are you seeing in terms of average unit cost and does that have an impact on how you plan on pricing your product in the back half? I'll start with that and then if Art want to chime in that would be great.
With regard to average unit cost we've talked about the fact that spring didn't really have a lot of change because when we placed spring there wasn't a lot of difference in the cotton prices we started seeing benefits in summer and certainly in the back half.
So that's all good news.
Directionally when you do the math on what component cotton is to our total AUC and I'll just do something high level illustrative for.
If you have the 20% improvement in cotton it equates to roughly about 2% improvement in AUC and that's before we make any mixed decisions or any other changes to our assortment.
So it's super helpful it's a positive thing but it's not an enormous lever even into the back of.
Again but it's helpful.
With regard to pricing I would say given the promotional environment we've been living in that is not really a great case in my view for changing pricing and giving that back to the customer.
Of course what we will be looking to do is trying to return to help the margins in 2015 so that could be a lever some of it offset by foreign exchange.
But the cotton tailwind could be a lever and then we will be managing our promotional cadence to try and also support healthier margins in 2015.
Your next question comes from Matt McClintock with Barclays.
I was wondering if we could focus on Athleta for a minute.
Plans to only open 20 stores this year seems like a slowdown from growth over the past several years so just wanted to think about how you're thinking about growth for that specific brand? That would be helpful.
Thank you.
I'm actually very glad you asked that question so let me just step back for a second and talk a little bit about the journey that Athleta is on.
Obviously started as a catalog and then an online retailer we only opened store a few years ago and as we've opened these stores the number one store in the market and then the follow on stores in that market we are really learning a lot about kind of building a retailer from the digital world if you will into the physical world and how the two channels interact with each other.
And what they've learned is very positive which is that we can build stores and we can continue to get the growth out of the direct channel at the same time which is obviously great growth accretive growth and really attractive from that standpoint without having to put physical assets in the ground and so I have no modification in my mind in any way shape or form about the growth rate and the growth prospects of the business just as we are learning about how we get that between the two different channels we are trying to be really responsible obviously and optimize the overall returns of that business by the differential growth rate in the two channels.
So if you or anyone is interpreting this as somehow we are losing a little bit of for optimism for the business that's absolutely the wrong interpretation.
And we will go next to Kimberly Greenberger with Morgan Stanley.
Great.
Thank you.
Art I wanted to ask you about the supply chain and I'm trying to reconcile two comments that seem a little bit contradictory.
You indicated that you've got current capabilities to be able to respond in season to bestsellers and adjust your merchandise flows.
But I think during your prepared remarks you said that you're basically in 2015 already bought through fall here at the end of February.
So I'm just trying to understand how those two things happened simultaneously? And is there a point in future years where you think we'll be sitting at the end of February not bought out for the next six to eight months? So I think I can resolve the potential inconsistency that you see there.
And part of the issue is that just being very straightforward on this with everything that's been going on at Gap they are probably on the lagging side of having implemented some of the supply chain capabilities.
And so even now with Jeff coming in Kimberly we are actually taking a pause and we will be shortening our product calendar number one at Gap.
And then number two pushing much more aggressively on some of those things that in season or close to being in season allow us to be very responsive like an aggressive push on fabric platforming and those kinds of things.
And so while I am bullish on this I see this working in our other businesses I wish Gap to push further forward because it would give us the ability to be a little bit more responsive right now.
They are not as far as they will be very quickly.
And then the other issue is if you look at it let's rewind from fall fall is sometime probably in early August so it's actually not that far away right now if you consider the production cycle on motion times et cetera et cetera.
And so I don't think it's contradictory at all and will definitely pushing forward on this.
I wish Gap was in a different place but they are the laggard as it comes to implementing this and that is something we are correcting right now.
And we will go next to Susan Anderson with FBR Capital Markets.
I was wondering if you could maybe expand just on your vision for the Gap segment what needs to transform there? Do you think it's all product or is there any other structural pressures going on given the entrance of new competitors? And then do you feel comfortable with its store base given the focus on e-commerce and omnichannel? Thank you.
That's funny because I remember sitting in our design center in 55 Thomas in October of 2011 and the question was asked it was similar to that when I was in Jeff's seat.
And as of February 2012 when we really had on brand and appropriate products that was really aligned with the trend of the season that was the new bright marketing campaign that the product to market and then we saw very very good numbers come out of the brand almost instantaneously with getting the product back on track.
And so I'll be honest with you right now Susan I'm really much more focused on the establishing the aesthetic direction in the women's business and getting product in our stores that reflects what our customers expect with this product that is feminine product that has an optimism associated with the obviously casual product with an American aesthetic and I know there is upside associated with doing that.
And then we do that and that gives us the time to then look at any other issues.
I would also just refresh the memory that while I was sitting in that seat we closed a couple of hundred stores and had made very good progress there from the standpoint of really rationalizing the fleet to be in the kind of real estate that we felt a brand like Gap should be exposed.
And so right now I want to stay focused with Jeff and the team he has put together on getting the products to aesthetic right.
The other thing I will say here again is that and as we talked about we have a very good men's business the kids and baby business remains healthy for us and the fit and Gap body business is a good business also.
And so for me largely this is a women's business right now and it's what our focus is on.
And we will go next to Oliver Chen with Cowen and Company.
Regarding your focus on your feature here regarding the aesthetic direction are you thinking that the women's tops  which classifications might have the most opportunity? And then how do you think you can attempt to marry the great efforts for consistency versus creative and balancing the art and the science of retail? I'm most curious about the Gap division and what kind of observations we should look for as we check the stores.
I can see you thinking about the business in the right way not surprising.
Right now as I mentioned we are seeing a little bit of life in denim and the resolution denim has gotten a pretty good reception from customers.
They are really finding that the like the whole notion of it the fit the fabric obviously denim has been I characterize as this customer has taken a bit of a pause in women over the course in the last several quarters and I would say as much from our business but also having just been in New York during fashion week and seeing what was being talked about what was on the showrooms what the news was in denim I'm not going to call it a turn in denim but I'm feeling for the most part  I feeling now differently than I felt for a while which is probably coming back to denim in a way that we haven't seen her be for several quarters.
So encouraged there but it's early days.
Tops is tough right now and it's wovens and knits it's a fit issue it's a fit intent issue it's an aesthetic issue and so we are very much focused on that and with much focused on fixing that as quickly as possible.
And so if I had to go to one category I would definitely say it's in the top's business and obviously both knits and wovens for Gap brand are very material categories and the product is just not  she is just not responding to the product there right now at all.
So we just stop there I mean that is the work that we need to do.
On the issue of the tension of consistency and creativity I actually think that's [indiscernible] let me just give you an example.
Fit so fit in bottoms fit for us which is a huge issue with respect to a women's loyalty towards her pants.
We should be the experts of fit we have been experts at fit and shame on us when we lose consistency on it because when she can't count on us.
It also as you might imagine has an impact on the business to business because if she counts on fit and the fit has changed then we obviously have an issue with returns right now.
And so fit consistency is a science it's a discipline in no way does it impede what we need in terms of the great creativity of design teams.
And so I guess I worked in other creative businesses during my career and I've always calm that rather than being a trade off between consistency and discipline and creativity on the other side consistently and discipline enables creativity and frankly it takes a lot of the work away from what the team has done has to do at the end of the day.
So and this is really the reaction I see from our design teams as well they want to win and they want to have a foundation that they can build on every season.
And we will go next to Dorothy Lakner with Topeka Capital Markets.
Just going back to Gap brand again for a second Art I just wondered you've described what you're going to be doing but what should we look for? What should we see in the stores as we move through this year of transition I guess? So the words that use when I describe Gap which I think are very relevant are casual optimistic and American.
And if you haven't been in our stores and looked at our assortment I would suggest you need to but I suspect that you have.
And I would challenge you to find that we are consistently expressing casual American optimism through the product expression that we have in our stores.
And so those are the words that we were using and now what does that mean tangibly? So in summer what you will see as there is some more  it was a very neutral summer that we had last year you will see more color brand appropriate color coming back into the business by the time we get to summer.
So that's a change that has been made.
Print and pattern obviously as we get into late spring and summer not so much in spring but you will see a bit more of that when we get into summer as well and then as we move into fall there is little bit more and then the work that's going on right now on holiday it's holiday for Gap is really a time we are very optimistic expression of the brand it's a time when a lot of the industry tends to go to a very dark and neutral place we have done very good business over many years with the more optimistic expression of the brand during that time frame.
It doesn't mean going nuts on crazy type again go nuts on [indiscernible] some of the other sort of trends perhaps that you see during holiday but we have an opportunity to express the brand in a very optimistic and colorful way there.
It's also obviously in a feminine way which is the other piece that's missing from the women's business.
And so I'm not going to call a turn on the business right now being very honest with you about the work that's going on and when you will start to see some change and I'm not promising anything that we will get later the year but I think even as we get to summer and the fall you will start to see the brand shift a little bit more to the express  through the appropriateness of the brand.
And we will go next to Thomas Calandra with Susquehanna International Group Question about the marketing.
I think the overall spend was only up slightly so I was hoping you could remind us what the incremental spend was for the Gap Brand in 2014.
And Art given your digital expression comments how should we think about dollar spend in 2015 and any adjustments to the mix in the spending? Thank you.
Ill let Sabrina grab the specific number if she wants to talk about that.
I would rather go to a slightly different place which is to really talk about the change that we made in the structure of digital marketing and its something that I did very intentionally and I did it very intentionally in the two brands that we did it in under two leaders who I know very well and I think are enlightened and very capable leaders.
Youre going to want to know what is that mean at the end of the day and that we just give you a couple of things that would probably tell you that talk about.
Our brands are being engaged digitally much more so than two traditional marketing vehicles and the good news about digital engagement is we have a much better line of sight to the return of our spend in digital engagement versus some of the traditional marketing vehicles like a billboard or a transit or those kinds of things.
And so part of what I am trying to do by bringing those two things together is to really get our arms holistically around how the customer is engaging our brand and then start managing that for the highest returns in our overall spend.
And Im not going to say that we are going to spend less marketing but I am honestly pretty confident that were going to be able to see a path towards evolve into higher returns on the marketing spend that we have across a number of different vehicles.
The second thing which I have highlighted that I want to highlight again is that we have had the luxury of living with our digital expressions of our brands our websites as being very efficient transactional channels.
Today to me it becomes a hand which is those digital properties also have to carry the aspiration and the emotion of the brand as well as being very efficient channels.
And by bringing those two things together we really now have leaders in an organization thats going to be thinking digitally first in everything they do and [indiscernible] which is if youre shooting marketing assets for traditional marketing vehicles often times those assets dont manifest themselves in the best way possible for digital use.
And we just need to pivot to a digital first mindset.
I do believe we will get some efficiency out of doing that I am much more excited about the effectiveness of our overall spend that were going to see.
And we will go next to Paul Lejuez with Wells Fargo.
As you think about the issues facing Gap Brand Art I'm just wondering if Gap internationally is facing similar issues or have they out-comped the North American business? And also specifically if you could comment on how Gap China has performed both for the full year and in the fourth quarter? Thanks.
Its kind of a mixed bag quite honestly and really depends as a function of couple of things.
Obviously how the assortment was bought and how the team in a given part of the world would pressure on different parts of the business.
In some places in the world like in China as an example our kids and baby business index was much higher into the overall business than the adult business and that business has been pretty consistent and pretty strong and so she is what I would say.
As weve had the same product issues the product issues in North America product issues everywhere in that we have brought the business different and the customer engagement the business is different weve seen level of strength in China as an example that have been better than what weve seen in other parts of the world I dont know if Sabrina if you want to talk at all about specifics in China business? We dont break out very much but I think directionally thats appropriate.
I think we had more success in China certainly then we saw in North America with the assortment and a lot of that is how it was bought in China and the favorable mix in kids and baby which continues to be more of a relative strength.
The other thing I would say just to put a period at the end of the sentence were confident that as we make progress in the womens business it will have an impact around the world.
And we will go next to Betty Chen with Mizuho Securities.
I was wondering if we can shift gears for a moment Art and talk about Old Navy? Just had a great quarter to wrap up a nice year.
As you look at the brand what are some potential opportunities for the brand going forward and when we may see that play out to 2015? So if I just step back and look at the opportunities for the brand opportunity number one is consistency season after season and thats what gives me probably more excitement than anything about the fact now that weve had a little bit of a run there with consistent product which the customer has consistently responded to.
I would also really point you to the expression of the brand in no marketing.
I follow them  probably the best place that I go to honestly to see it is on Instagram I follow Old Navy and a number of our other brands as well as a number of other brands and there are times when I look at Old Navy's inventory on Instagram and it's hard for me to distinguish between a premium or premier contemporary brand in terms of the aspiration of the fashion that we are presenting.
And so Stefan uses the word aspirational I think it's a great express and that you see  when you see those brands against each other how Old Navy is really communicating the fact that it's got current trend that is right where it needs to be right now and clearly that's what she and the overall family was responding to.
Still bullish obviously for the Old Navy so that's in the domestic business.
Given the consistency there is a long runway in front of us there in terms of opportunity.
Very bullish on the international business and the expansion that we have in both Japan and in China and then a couple of places worth highlighting inside the assortment.
I touched on the fact that Old Navy has a family wide active expression we've had tremendous customer reaction to that she is really engaged and she is engaged on behalf of the family kids the men's business the active expression and that's a place where  if that's a trend that's a trend that's got a long runway in front of it.
And so we're excited about being able to build out that business.
And it's a business that is essentially purely incremental for us inside of Old Navy.
That is a real estate to house the business we are not having to trade off other key categories so it's a very nice incremental business for us it allows us to build the business productivity in the real estate and give another reason to come inside the store.
And we will go next to Lindsay Drucker Mann with Goldman Sachs.
Sabrina I wanted to follow up on currency.
The guidance that you have for the translational and transactional headwind in this year's earnings guide does that also include some of the cushion or the protection you got from hedges that have been in place? And as a result as we're thinking about our 2016 model I know you haven't given any specific guidance but as we're looking at out-years should we also be thinking about a currency headwind to factor in? And then as part of that question this isn't your first moment dealing with currency do you guys have an approach a plan of attack on how to defend margins whether it's through pricing or cost savings? Have you considered maybe in Europe diversifying your sourcing capabilities to include some local manufacturing or any other initiatives you're taking to protect margins from this? Thanks.
On the first question it definitely Lindsay includes the hedge rates embedded so the guidance includes the hedge rates for 2015.
And as I mentioned we hedged about 18 months in advance so the hedge rates tend to lag by about 12 to 18 months.
So they worsened again that they didnt worsen to the degree that they did coming out of 2013 to 2014 but that is all embedded.
With regard to how we look at the spending margin that I would say we look country by country certainly and we dont feel like in a lot of other countries given the competitive landscape and the orientation towards value of the customer that there is a lot of room to just full sale increase prices given the increase in AUC driven by the stronger dollar.
What we look at more is how do we affect and address the issue through our promotional cadence through our sales and mark downs I think thats what weve been trying to do overall for the last year and a half as weve been facing the pressure already and well continue to look at sourcing mechanisms as well.
As we move forward since were probably be in the dollar strong environment for a little while here.
And we will take our final question from Anna Andreeva with Oppenheimer.
Happy to have made it.
I guess the question to Art as you think about reinvigorating the Gap Brand how do you think the target customer demographic has changed here over the last couple years? And how do you segment the market between Gap and Old Navy just to make sure the brands are different enough to coexist in the marketplace? And to Sabrina just to follow up on the guidance are you embedding any of the buyback activity for 2015? Thanks So I will take a quick pass at this and then Ill hand it off to Sabrina.
So lets be clear.
We participate in almost $2 trillion global marketplace for apparel and accessories.
And so as a company that has $16 billion roughly in revenue theres a lot of space out there.
As to the target customer for Gap I think I am less focused on the target customer than I am on the fact that Gap at its best has historically been a pretty democratic brand.
And what gives me the greatest pleasure is to see a woman with her daughter either a young daughter or her adult daughter shopping in the brand and that is exactly what we saw back in 2012 and in 2013 when we had products well priced appropriate for the brand that was on trend in our stores.
And so Im a little less in time to embrace sort of the two-dimensional cut out of a target customer rather than great products thats right for the brand and for the aesthetics for a brand with probably a good business.
And then as to our brands completing with each other my basic perspective on that is get the best products you can through your brand filters and there is a lot of competition out there to go indeed.
And Im less inclined to think about our brands competing against each other than competing with both fits against our competitors and winning every day.
Sabrina? Briefly on the buybacks you know our range weve included various scenarios and given our track record I think it is safe to say our scenario would include some level of buybacks.
Great.
Id like to thank everyone for joining us on the call today.
And as a reminder the press releases which is available on gapinc.com contains a full recap of our fourth quarter results and as well as the forward-looking guidance included in our prepared remarks.
And as always the Investor Relations team is available after the call for further questions.
Thank you.
That does conclude our conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen my name is Kevin and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Gap Inc.
First Quarter 2015 Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to introduce your host Jack Calandra Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Good afternoon everyone.
Welcome to Gap Inc.'s first quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Before we begin I'd like to remind you that the information made available on this webcast and conference call contains forward-looking statements.
For information factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements as well as reconciliations or descriptions of measures we are required to reconcile to GAAP financial measures please refer to today's earnings press release as well as our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and our subsequent filings with the SEC all of which are available on gapinc.com.
These forward-looking statements are based on information as of May 21st 2015 and we assume no obligation to publicly update or revise our forward-looking statements.
Joining us on the call today are CEO Art Peck; and Executive Vice President and CFO Sabrina Simmons.
Sabrina will be using slides to supplement her remarks which you can view by going to the Investor Relations section at gapinc.com.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Art.
Thanks Jack and good afternoon everyone.
I'm pleased to be here speaking to now in my second earnings call as CEO.
The most important thing I want to do today is reemphasize our earnings guidance for the year.
You have I'm sure our press release in front of you.
You have the details underneath that and after I'm done I'll hand it over to Sabrina Simmons who will take you through the specific details and obviously we'll have Q&amp;A at the end of this call.
We'll talk about our first quarter results and I'll go a little bit deeper into what's been going on over the last three months.
There are three issues that really impacted the first quarter.
Two of those are macro factors which we've spoken to you about before in terms of foreign exchange and the West Coast port situation.
Sabrina will spend a little bit more time on that.
I really want to dive in on the underlying results of our three global brands and specifically the performance of our women's businesses.
As we've said and we continue to see we've had an exceptionally well performing women's business at Old Navy which has driven great profitable growth.
Product acceptance at Gap in the women's business has been tough and we're focused on making it happen.
At Banana Republic it's a work-in-process and we have work to do there as well.
Let me start first by spending a few minutes on Old Navy.
Obviously it's a very good story.
A story that we're very pleased with it and a story that we have confidence and that's going to continue to repeat itself on a going forward basis.
Three years of excellent performance and most importantly underneath the covers growth that is being driven in a very high quality way with a very nice margin story underneath it.
Q1 comp was a women's story and I'm saying that in particular because as we have struggled with our women's business in Gap as an example Old Navy is an excellent example where we continue to get women's right season after season and we're very pleased with the performance that we're seeing with on-brand on-trend product in our stores.
I need to point out that this is a combination of factors.
It is clearly a team working well together led by Stefan that is delivering this performance.
But it's also underlying process changes that we have made in the way that we're running the business and the way that we're bringing product to market that is delivering the consistency that we're seeing.
I mentioned this before but I need to mention it again which is we're taking these changes and in some cases largely transplanting them into our other businesses and that they are proven inside of Old Navy and they have been delivering this kind of performance.
Again we have a strong women's business there but it's been followed by a pretty strong business inside the rest of the box as well across men's kids and baby.
And it's a thing of beauty when Old Navy is firing on all cylinders and has now for several seasons running.
On the flipside I continue to be disappointed but not surprised by Gap's performance.
We have had a women's business challenge now for several seasons running I believe we have diagnosed it correctly having to do with being off-brand in some cases off-trend and I can promise you that the team is all over it.
In the last call that we had I mentioned the hiring of Wendy Goldman.
Wendy has hit the ground running.
She is a highly collaborative skilled leader working with the team and I've been really pleased so far the results the whole team is producing as they are focused on holiday and obviously on spring.
Jeff really has three priorities right now and I want to underline and emphasize those to you.
We are in season every day and we're managing the business as aggressively as we can to get every penny out of the business.
In relative terms kids and baby is performing better and men's is performing better but to be clear I am not happy and Jeff is not happy with the entire performance of the brand and we're committed to turning it around.
On top of managing in season we're obviously working extremely hard to make every improvement that we can to the outlying seasons including holiday and most importantly spring.
On top of that I said I was impatient.
We're working very hard to change the product processes all of what we're doing at Old Navy in order to get Gap to a more consistent on-trend on-brand footing.
And I have to say much of the work that the team has done there to realign the team on the aesthetic of the brand is very very encouraging.
Banana Republic is a mix bag.
This was Marissa's first collection showing up later in the quarter.
It's had a couple of very positive impacts in terms of reestablishing some fashion credibility for the brand and the relevance of the brand but we didn't get it a 100% right and this is not to be excused but perhaps expected as you're bringing a new designer and a new leadership team together.
The color palette was pretty start between black and white not enough color in print and pattern for the season that we're in and we're still working to buy an assortment that is both commercial and fashion-oriented.
Relatively speaking the men's business is stronger and it's not that the women's business is weak but we have not hit the stride nor delivered the commercial results while at the same time we have established some fashion credibility and that's our job and we're focused on making it happen.
In a moment I'll turn it over to Sabrina.
What I wanted to do is offer a few comments in advance about how Sabrina and I are working together and the commitment that we very much share together.
Obviously a big part of our story over the last several years has been the fact that we're committed to a responsible capital structure and as this company continues to generate a significant amount of cash we're committed to distributing that excess cash to the benefit of our shareholders.
It's important for me to emphasize that Sabrina and I are highly aligned on continuing that going forward while at the same time responsibly reinvesting in the business.
Sabrina let me pass it to you.
Thank you Art.
Good afternoon everyone.
As anticipated our first quarter results were impacted by foreign exchange headwinds and delayed receipts due to the West Coast port issues.
Despite these dynamics we're pleased that Old Navy delivered another strong quarter on top of three years of growth.
As Art mentioned we're focused on taking the steps necessary to drive improvements and greater consistency in our other brands while continuing to make progress on our long-term objectives.
Operating income for the first quarter was $386 million versus $443 million last year.
Net earnings were $239 million.
On a reported basis earnings per share were $0.56 down about 3% versus $0.58 last year.
It's important to note that our reported earnings per share were negatively impacted by foreign exchange.
We estimate that foreign exchange reduced our reported earnings per share growth rate by about three percentage points.
Sales for the first quarter were also impacted by foreign exchange and the port issues.
As reported first quarter sales were $3.7 billion down 3% versus last year.
The translation of foreign revenues into dollars negatively impacted our reported net sales by about $90 million in the first quarter.
On a constant currency basis net sales were down about 1%.
Regarding the port impact there is no meaningful change to our first half estimate of $0.13.
As reminder first quarter sales were impacted by having fewer units available for sale.
We expect that second quarter will be impacted by late units that well likely be sold at lower margins.
Total sales and comps by division are listed in our press release.
Moving to gross margin first quarter gross margin was down 100 basis points to 37.8%.
Merchandise margins were about flat driven by strong performance at Old Navy offset by the impact of foreign exchange as well as disappointing performance at Gap brand.
Rent and occupancy deleveraged 100 basis points.
In the face of challenging sales performance we managed SG&amp;A tightly.
First quarter total operating expenses were $996 million down $27 million from the prior year driven by foreign exchange favorability.
Marketing expenses were down about $7 million versus last year to $136 million.
As a percent of sales total operating expenses were 27.2% and deleveraged about 10 basis points versus last year.
As a reminder in Q2 we will lap last year's gain on sale of nearly $40 million.
Therefore we expect greater deleverage in Q2 versus Q1.
Regarding the balance sheet and cash flow inventory dollars per store were up about 4% at the end of the first quarter.
As anticipated delayed receipts due to the West Coast port situation resulted in higher in-transit inventory levels at the end of the first quarter.
We expect year-over-year inventory dollars per store at the end of the second quarter to be up slightly versus last year as we focus on selling through these late receipts while trying to maximize margin.
As a reminder last years inventory per store was up only 2% in Q2 versus up 7% at the end of Q1.
For the quarter free cash flow was an inflow of $61 million.
Underscoring our commitment to distribute excess cash to shareholders we distributed more than five times our free cash flow or $329 million this quarter.
This includes $230 million to repurchase 5.6 million shares resulting in a quarter end share count of 419 million.
Regarding capital expenditures and store count first quarter capital expenditures were $150 million.
We opened 29 company-operated stores on a net basis and ended the quarter with 3 309 stores.
Store count and square footage are listed in our press release.
And now I would like to share our outlook for the rest of the year.
Our first quarter performance was broadly in line with our expectations at the time we provided our full year guidance in February.
Therefore we are reaffirming our full year earnings per share guidance range of 2.75 to 2.80.
For the full year all other guidance metrics remains substantially unchanged.
In closing as we entered the second quarter we will continue to focus on levers that we can control while we work to deliver compelling product assortments across all of our brands.
Thank you.
And now I will turn it back over to Jack.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We will now open up the call to questions.
We would appreciate limiting your questions to one per person.
Thank you.
We will take our firs question from Randy Konik with Jefferies.
Again Mr.
Konik your line is open.
Please check your mute button at this time.
Due to no response we will be moving on -- Hello? Please go ahead.
Hello.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Sorry about that.
I had little phone issues here.
Hi Randy.
Hey guys.
How are you? Good.
I guess just -- Art first on the -- I guess we will just -- lets dive right into it right on the Gap.
You kind of talked a little bit about the relative better performance around kid and baby and mens.
So relative to the traffic of what you are seeing at I guess Banana and the Mall is it more -- is it truly a traffic issue conversion issue.
Is the mom going in there for the baby but just saying that these clothes -- I can't buy this? And just trying to a perspective on what is truly the problem there? And then as it relates to your perspective on the womens side is it -- it sounds like a combination of consistent fit lack of color bad marketing or not the best marketing what have you.
Just want to your get perspective on which are these things are most important to improve which can be turned the fastest et cetera? Thanks.
Yeah.
I mean Randy its a same thing.
I think we've been and I have been pretty consistent in talking about which is we know we have a problems in the womens business.
We've diagnosed it.
We've diagnosed it because you can go in there and look at it.
I spend time in stores.
I talk to customers I watch what customers buy.
We look at our product acceptance.
And the issues are clear and have been clear for several seasons.
And it is a combination of all the above which is we've got -- we are off trend and in some cases way off the brand.
We have some quality and fit issues where we made some choices.
And the issue is the one womens business which is why I'm focused on womens business when the womens business isnt working it does in a brand like Gap which is obviously dual gender and then whole family have a negative halo on the rest of the box.
But we are actually getting very good customer feedback on our kids and baby business.
Mens business continues to be relatively strong.
And so its why -- when I have been working with Jeff and the team its been prioritize the womens business because as it halos negatively when its not working it has the same halo effect positively when it is working.
And I'm actually -- I'm pretty encouraged by what I see going forward.
I can even look at the holiday assortment which is largely landed now and some of the sort of obvious mistakes that we've made we have -- they are gone from the line.
We've actually taken the step of cancelling some styles that we had and we knew were just not saleable which is an appropriate thing to do as well and which we've been able to do.
So from that standpoint again same thing I was saying before team heads down working on the womens assortment and getting it back on track as much as we can do in holiday acknowledging it was mostly bought and then spring being a no excuses moment.
Thanks guys.
Okay.
We go next to John Morris with BMO Capital Markets.
Thanks.
Good afternoon everybody.
Art maybe if you could give us a little bit about your philosophy on handling marketing the marketing spend going forward.
I mean Im sure we will hear from Sabrina as well in terms of the thoughts about the numbers.
But I want to get little bit on the philosophy we saw you guys pulled back a little bit in the quarter and what can we expect and where are you thinking about allocating it by brand and your philosophy around that.
Thanks.
I mean the simplest philosophical statement that's easiest to make is that when you are not proud of our product you are not going to out there putting a lot of marketing behind the business and its exactly the strategy that I followed back in 2011 when we looked forward down the pipeline didnt feel good about the product and consequently pulled back on a lot of the working media spend that we had in place and we are doing some of that now as well.
The other side of that is I am feeling like we are really getting our returns in the marketing spend that we have at Old Navy.
And well I can see returns and it can help drive the business I am happy to put money into the business as well.
So its really about placing smart bets not just sticking with the marketing plan or anything like that.
So expect us to be tight and as product gets better expect us to then start putting a little bit of pressure on the business.
But you correctly have seen that we've pulled back and we will continue to do that until we feel like there is an opportunity to really tell the story.
And then the second issue is and this is a topic broadly separate from the current performance of the business that both Sabrina and I are very focused on right now.
We have over a long period of time generally spent more than many of the competitors out there in terms of marketing and I think we should be getting more out of our marketing dollar than we are at the end of the day.
Sabrina do you want to add anything to that? Yeah I was going to add to be helpful which underscores what Art said is in the quarter as you might imagine with Old Navy positive comping they are not down at all in marketing dollars in fact they are up.
And the improvement comes a little bit from everywhere else where we are not as happy.
And it also includes by the way I should say Piperlime because we closed that in the quarter and so we are not marketing behind that.
And then with regard to the second quarter I would just say there is not going to be any radical change because its likely to follow the same pattern as Q1.
So I would look at something sort of starting -- last year as a good starting point to the second quarter.
Okay thanks.
Good luck.
Thanks.
We'll take our next question from Oliver Chen with Cowen and Company.
Please go ahead.
Hi thank you.
I had a broader question about how you are feeling about supply chain and test read and react inventory - manage inventories and how this will work in terms of your strategic planning.
And then I do think we are observing some newness on the trend front on the marketplace from our perspective.
I'm just wondering what vehicles might be best for you to try to capitalize upon that newness factor that seems to be happening in some bottoms and tops.
So the story on supply chain is as we've been telling it that were continuing to push on it on a number of the elements on platform fabric which enables us to get back into season very quickly on some of the test and respond that we've been doing.
Old Navy is farthest ahead in realizing this with the changes that have taken place obviously and the challenges in the business at Gap changes in leadership challenges in the business.
Those two businesses lag.
Banana is probably in the middle and Gap is farthest behind.
What I can say quite confidently is that as we have implemented it its very clear that its having a positive impact and its the right thing to do.
And then the question really is scaling it and continuing to scale it as fast as we can.
And so -- and we are using this in some cases to do exactly what you talked about with respect to a trend out there that we see or something like that.
We will put a set of silhouettes in bottoms and we'll see which sells and allows us to go -- cut more aggressively and respond more quickly into the silhouettes that are selling right now.
And obviously in denim as an example there is lot of variation out there in terms of rise in terms of leg silhouette and the novelty and we can be more responsive there.
Knits is an easy one where we've also used that and particularly inside of Old Navy to be more responsive to where the knits business has really shown some real strength and puts some volume behind it.
So its a clear capability.
As I've said pretty publicly we are in the business that we guess a lot and anything that we can do to minimize the guesses and guess better and inform it with data has a real positive impact on the business.
Okay Art.
And just your -- just for expectations it's more about spring versus holiday but you've made some tweaks for holiday.
Just I wanted to understand I mean how we should think about the catalyst and timing? So in Gap brands specifically you mean? Yes.
Yeah.
I mean kind of going to stick to my same story there which is that I dont want to make any promises about holiday because as the team got in place holiday had a pretty good team behind it and so much of it was developed.
What I can say is that the team did not do anything and theyve put their shoulder against it and made some changes there.
I'm certainly hoping it will be better and from what I have seen I have seen some encouraging elements of the assortment that I think are in a much better place.
But I'm really putting my big expectation on spring.
Thank you.
Best regards.
Sure.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Boss with JP Morgan.
Please go ahead.
Hey good afternoon guys.
So expense control remains pretty impressive over this year and next couple actually.
What type of flexibility do you think remains on a go forward basis and particularly if a top-line turn where not to materialize at the end of this year or even in the spring.
And then just what kind of room do you have to continue to cut some expenses? Yeah well this part of our expense phase is related to our stores and that varies in large part that -- half of that varies with sales.
So we do have the benefit that if sales do not -- are not realized to the extent wed like them to be we have a natural variable component that comes down.
So that's one piece that will always be in the work.
With regard to sort of how we deliver the expense savings this quarter to help you think about how we would do it in future quarters.
A chunk of it came from foreign exchange so we call that out.
And so we benefited probably between the translation and balance sheet re-measurement about $30 million of benefit.
Even after that the expenses were pretty close to last year.
So very tight.
And that comes primarily from this variable component I talked about as well as we brought that marketing down a little bit by $7 million.
And so we would continue to use those levers that are variable or discretionary like marketing.
Q2 I just want to call out again its a very different dynamic because we've leveraged last year on Q2 by 190 basis points.
So just I'm sure optic perspective that includes the gain on sale of $40 million last year.
So we are going to be lapping that.
And then we layer on really kicking in June the wage increase.
So the deleverage we would expect to be higher in Q2 just because of what we are anniversarying such high leverage but we will behind the scenes continue to work all the levers we have at our disposal to manage our expenses very tightly especially if we are not realizing the sales we would expect.
Great.
And then just quick follow-up online posted the first year-over-year contraction that I can remember maybe ever.
Can you just talk about initiatives in place to stabilize this channel as well? Yeah online number really was driven and impacted by the ports as well.
So number one is sort of at a high level its important to remember that they too were impacted by that.
The second piece is the Piperlime closure.
So again we wound down and actually finished closing Piperlime in the first quarter.
So that's going to be another chunk of it.
And then you just have the effect of Gap product acceptance being fairly weak.
So you put those three together and you come up with we are not happy with the number at all but we would expect it to improve ones for out of the port situation certainly and get that to a more normalized level.
Okay great.
Thats really helpful.
We'll go next to Matt McClintock from Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
Good afternoon everybody.
Art I was wondering if we could focus on Old Navy for a bit.
Three consecutive years of solid comp store sales performance and it would appear that that performance should just be now gaining steam from some of our supply chain initiatives.
Can you talk about the evolution of Old Navys comps of the performance there from the beginning.
Three years ago we put up a solid 6% increase to the most recent result.
And how should we think about this evolution as those supply chain improvements continue to accelerate your ability to deliver fresh fashion to that business.
Thanks.
Yeah.
I'm glad you are saying that.
And you can probably read the article that was in the newspaper earlier this week as well.
There is some information in there.
I think and I hope what you saying and what you are believing is that you put that much consistency in place three years multiple quarters back to back and there is a reason behind that and there is a reason behind it.
And it is -- it starts with obviously Stefan and his team which is a really good team working together but the much more important thing behind the scenes is that team living inside of a very disciplined process and as set of process change it is allowing for the consistency.
Again I say this often publicly that its relatively easy to have a great quarter.
What is superlatively hard in this industry is to put quarter after quarter together and then year after year.
And so we have a lot of confidence there in the processes and capabilities that we've built.
It starts with what we think is a really great process right at the beginning which filters trend really systemically across a wide variety of sources filters trend down to the right ones that we feel are brand right and appropriately commercial for Old Navy.
And its allowed us to be in trends that are happening at the same time in the designer and the premium contemporary space its allowed us to be into those trends in Old Navy almost in the simultaneous way which really is the way the world is working right now.
So that ability to be right and to respond very quickly is powerful.
And then if you just go down into the system there is really -- I think a really disciplined and structured management of the assortment that we are running as well right now which allows to maintain the proper amount of newness at Arena portfolio but also have a super solid set of styles that are proven that we can invest in over several seasons to help us really drive the -- really drive the commercial plan of the business.
I guess the way I think about it is that a healthy business is a business thats gaining market share and Old Navy has now demonstrated its ability to hunt and win at market share pretty consistently for a number of quarters running.
So I won't say that this is going to be perfect every time because its tough in this industry with fashion.
But I do have a great deal of confidence in the system and process that we've built there.
And its obviously why we are working very aggressively with Jeff and his team and Andi and her team to almost do turnkey installation of some of these components into the other businesses as well.
And we will see the results on a going forward basis but I have been really pleased with what we are seeing with Old Navy and really confident with what we see going forward.
Thanks a lot Art.
Yeah.
We'll go next to Susan Anderson with FBR Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hi good evening.
Thanks for taking my question.
I was wanting to ask just about expectations for gross margin kind of as we go throughout the year.
I assume in second quarter it should be worse because of the port situation.
But then should we expect it to kind of impact positively in the back half or should we expect continued SG&amp;A to kind of help to offset that to get to your EBIT margin guidance? Thanks.
That is a tough question because we do not guide to gross margin season.
But to try and be helpful we do -- we have given a perspective on operating margin.
The gross margin what I will tell you just to keep in mind.
And you are absolutely correct with your view that there is going to be pressure that we expect in the second quarter because of the port for sure.
As a reminder we are also dealing with this year headwinds within the gross margin line due to foreign exchange so that's just part of what we laid out as the early part of the year for everyone to understand because we have that very large Japan and Canada business.
Then other than that I will tell you once we're passed the first half poor impact of course we'll be heads down on trying to deliver the healthiest margin we can.
And we will ultimately continue to use all of our levers to try and put up the best value that we can every quarter.
So we'll see how that works out.
Got it that's helpful.
Thank you.
We'll take our next question from Kimberly Greenberger with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thank you so much.
Art you talked about some of the improvements in changes in processes at Old Navy that have been implemented there over the last couple of years and that you felt like those processes -- and those improvements could be transported I think to Gap and Banana.
Could you just talk to us about what -- just help us understand exactly what those process improvements are if the transportation process from one division to the other has already started to happen or the knowledge sharing already started to happen.
When do think we might see the early results of that in terms of the merchandise in-store? Thanks so much.
Yeah.
I mean again I reiterate -- and let me reiterate what I said in my comments.
The three lanes of work that Jeff and his team are focused on right now specifically in Gap.
Obviously you have to run the business aggressively in season and we're doing that.
The team is heads down on the business on a global basis.
The second issue is fixed as much of the product as we can that is in the pipeline and deliver spring -- spring women's product at a in a brand appropriate trend appropriate way.
And then the third is rebuilding the product processes.
So there are a lot of plate spinning right now inside of Jeff's world but he and I both feel very strongly that we can't wait.
So we're working these things simultaneously.
If you think about some of the key elements of the process one is very simply the length of the pipeline and Old Navy has been running on a shorter pipeline for a while.
And Gap is developing on that pipeline now as we speak.
And then there is the trend process the assortment architecture the supply chain capabilities a number of other things as well which we're layering in.
Quite honestly Jeff and I are sitting your saying how much can we throw at the organization? And how fast can we push? But we are pushing pretty hard and pretty fast.
Spring will come to market with a shorter pipeline.
But it's going to be a hybrid really of the way they have traditionally brought it to market and the new process that we're building.
Remember that more and more up to speed on the new platform as we go through product development for 2016 in the outlying seasons.
I can't tell you exactly when there's going to be a lights on moment of this revealing itself because it was at Old Navy and it is in both at Banana and Gap more of a progressive rebuild but some of the key elements are ready of lease right now.
We'll take our next question from Lindsay Drucker Mann with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Hi everyone.
I wanted to ask about Old Navy and given the brand success whether you think there's opportunity to take a little bit of AUR and how you're thinking about AUR generally in light of the lower AUC environment for the back half? Thanks.
Yeah.
I mean to me AUR is one of those things that if you have confidence you can achieve it.
It's a thing of beauty.
And our issue with AUR as a company has been our inconsistency in our ability to achieve AUR.
Again inside of Stefan's business there has been opportunity that they have had and they have demonstrated their ability to mostly out of mix really not out of make at the end of the day.
I mean one of the things that's really cool about what's going on at Old Navy is that they are able in many cases to achieve cost reductions an elevated sense of quality and a mix up all at the same time from AUR.
Now it's in selective category.
So this is one where Sabrina and I are absolutely in locks-up which is to put AUR and look for AUR on the basis of mix and track record because it's proved to be way too elusive at times not just for us but for other people in this industry.
And then the other side of AUR having nothing to do really with the make of the product or AUC is just getting off of the depth of the promotions that we've had in some parts of the company.
And frankly in my view that's probably a much bigger AUR opportunity in the near to medium term than any fundamental changes in product mix or product make.
We've been very heavily discounted as you know and in some cases overbought in areas where the product is not registering and that's a tough spot to be.
So a second part of Gap is to really make sure that we're buying holiday and spring in exactly the right way and again I've said publicly that I have a pretty strong bias towards always modestly under buying a season and looking for upside in AUR versus trying to force a lot of units through the system.
Great.
And if I could just ask one follow-up.
Art when we met with you last you had talked about -- thinking about some different ways you might conceptualize the store format and different things that you were thinking about.
Have any of those experimental or new or evolved store formats come into clearer focus? Thank you.
We're still working on it on the inside.
Old Navy has something that they will be testing I'm not quite sure of the timing yet but certainly within the course of this calendar year.
And then I'm focused on our international expansion as well and in particular for both Old Navy and Gap.
The store size is a big opportunity for us in terms of opening up smaller more productive real estate spaces where we otherwise wouldn't actually necessarily even be able to open a store.
So it's -- not ready to make a pronouncement on this one but it hasn't lost any of its importance and it certainly is being backed across the company with a high degree of urgency.
Okay.
Thank you.
We go next to Adrianne Neve with Janney Capital Markets.
Good afternoon.
Quick question on the inventory.
I know that Old Navy has been in a position of Chase throughout fourth quarter and into the first quarter.
You're able to cut some inventory at Gap going into late summer -- late spring summer.
So I'm wondering are you comfortable with your inventory levels now? And then really quickly if you could just talk about AUC opportunity in the back half? Thank you very much.
Sure.
So the inventory increase Adrianne is really mostly due to the in-transit issue related to the port.
We told you guys we wanted to goal ourselves at the beginning of the year excluding the port something like slightly down to flattish and I would say we're pretty much there excluding this port issue that puts us up for.
And then you see that we trying get back with the guidance at Q2 of getting back to tighter inventories slightly up.
And the reason we're giving ourselves a little bit of wiggle room is with those late inventories coming in we don't want to do anything unnatural of goods arent really liable to just force the sell-through to get to EOQ.
But it's still fairly tight when you think about it to be slightly up when last year we're lapping only in EP2 [ph].
So overall I would say we're comfortable with our inventory levels and will continue to manage them quite tightly.
And your second question was -- On AUC opportunity with cotton deflation? Right.
Yeah.
So that opportunity really begins the summer flows because we told you when we bought our spring flow cotton really wasn't down yet and so yes we hope to capture -- I mean -- and we feel confident that in the second half we should get some tailwind.
The magnitude of that we've also talked about isn't -- it's a low single-digit certainly because the simple math that we try to help you all with to be illustrative is that if cotton prices were down 20% when we placed of those orders broadly you would expect -- with nothing else changing you would expect AUC down about 2%.
But of course there's always some mix and a little bit of reinvestment here and there.
But that's sort of directionally what we're trying to capture in the back half.
Okay great.
Thank you so much.
We will take our last question from Lorraine Hutchinson with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good afternoon.
Art could you share your updated thoughts on square footage and points of distribution for both the Gap and Banana brands? Yeah.
I mean it's a pretty simple conversation I would say right now which is that we are always looking at real estate opportunities whether it's a store that we should be in because the center has -- is no longer relevant whether it's an opportunity to downsize or reposition and so that's part of the normal ongoing part of how we can downsize.
And that's really the work that the team is doing all the time.
And it's obviously here in North America where we have the most mature business but we're obviously doing that all around the world across all of our fleets.
So not really ready to say anything more about it right now in any form other than its part of how we would be running the business in a responsible way.
Sabrina I don't know if you want to add anything more to that.
No that's right.
I mean reviews on the fleet are done on an ongoing basis and obviously we look even more deeply when brands are underperforming.
Overall historically Banana Republic has had very high returns and they have a pretty tight fleet size.
So work underway more to come I would say but yes it's always on our radar and it's an ongoing initiative.
Thank you.
I'd like to thank everyone for joining us on the call today.
As a reminder the press release which is available on the gapinc.com contains a full recap of our first quarter results as well as the forward-looking guidance included in our prepared remarks.
As always the Investor Relations' team will be available after the call for further questions.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And we will go first to Anna Andreeva with Oppenheimer.
Great.
Thanks so much and thanks for taking our question.
A question on Old Navy this division has demonstrated for some time now some very strong top line and bottom line momentum.
As we approach the tougher comparisons in the fourth quarter especially can you maybe talk about the trade-off between your AUR and transactions to drive positive comps and specifically what categories are you particularly excited for holiday? Thanks so much.
Thanks Anna and thanks for the question.
I know that we are looking at those tougher comps.
Again I would point out that weve got three years under our belt with the business and thats a function of how were bringing product to market as we pointed out several times.
Even if I look across the business the womens business is performing Ive now seen product looking out through the rest of the year really excited about where we are from a trend standpoint across a number of categories and thats probably whats most important to me is that the strength of the business has diversified.
Its not singular and then if you add on top of that some new categories that really have not been powering the business until weve built them out over the last couple of seasons like active I feel really good about what itll maybe has as ammunition to deliver the back half.
The only thing Ill add with regard to sort of our levers is hopefully weve done a nice job for the other part of the year in participating in a promotional environment while still delivering high quality margins.
And we intend to continue that into the back half.
So AUR will be an important lever as we continue to manage inventory responsibly and prudently there.
Hi good afternoon.
So as we think about SG&amp;A youve trimmed roughly a $150 million of expenses from the base over the past two years.
My question what kind of flexibility remains if sales were to remain constrained? And then on the balance sheet whats the adjusted leverage ratio or debt-to-EBITDA youre comfortable with going forward and just the minimum cash balance to fund the business? Great question.
So starting with expenses I mean we like to think Matthew that our work is never over.
There is always opportunity to work more productively and efficiently in the business.
As a reminder large part of our expense base is variable to sales whether its per unit because of DC cost or whether its related and variable to store cost a large piece is variable.
So of course when sales are increasing we would expect nominal dollars to increase but if they are not increasing then we do our very best as weve been demonstrating to be responsible and to hold all of our other discretionary and overhead items very tightly combined with the natural benefit we get from the variable piece.
So thats that piece.
With regard to the balance sheet let me see if I can remember your questions I know one was on cash.
And so we still target roughly between $1 billion and $1.2 billion as our cash on balance sheet target and we ended with $1 billion so we are very comfortable with where we ended the quarter.
And then with regard to our ratios I would say broadly speaking we like being an investment grade credit.
It gives us a lot of flexibility in our business and we have fought hard for those so we try to remain consistent in our ratios with the agencies guidelines on what constitutes investment grade.
Okay great.
That was really helpful.
Thanks.
Thanks.
Good afternoon guys.
Just a quick clarification question for Sabrina if I can whats the first half EPS of the $2.75 to $2.80 is based off? Is that the $1.42 underlying and then just assuming content share count does that just imply the back half EPS is around $1.33 and $1.38? The $2.75 to $2.80 guidance assumes our reported EPS excluding the GAAP  mostly GAAP charges that we described since June 15.
The foreign exchange is embedded and the port is embedded so it includes everything expect for those strategic action charges as outlined on June 15.
Is that helpful Simeon? Is that the $1.42 or is it a piece of the $1.42? Whats the underlying number? The $1.42 excludes all of the components.
So again the $2.75 would include the foreign exchange which is $0.06 and it would include the port of $0.13.
So it wouldnt be the $1.42 if we adjusted for those $0.19.
Perfect.
Great thanks.
Sure.
Thank you.
Good afternoon.
I was wondering Art if you can talk a little bit more about the in-season open program that you mentioned earlier.
It sounds like an exciting opportunity for the team to get a chance to read and react and also be able to chase into better selling items.
What percentage of the collection will be part of that program and is it in all brands that you mentioned and so any additional color would be helpful.
Thanks.
Yes.
Im not going to give you specific numbers here because were actually still a ways out and we are obviously trying to build this as quickly as we can and use it as quickly as we can.
And remember what I referred to here was that Gap would be for the first time in a significant way using this capability.
The way we were thinking about it Betty is against key programs.
You know this is a business thats where we manage it around the top 30 mentality of our key styles and so using in key programs and were going to roll it quickly and its based upon a combination of obviously reading the business having open to buy having platform fabric adds vendors who are capable on this integrated basis of cutting washing dying etc and proximate sourcing.
And so there will be more to say about this but it does involve putting products in our stores testing and then responding in season and Im really excited about it.
And Art does that go live for the spring season or more so the second half of 2016? In spring well be going in with the capability applied in a couple of places in the business.
Great.
Thank you so much.
Best of luck.
Yes.
Thanks and good afternoon everyone.
Wondered on the Gap if you could talk a bit about the bottoms business thats certainly been a mainstay and we are talking about somewhat of a resurgence in Denim overall in the industry in the back half of the year and just wondered if you could talk a little bit about how you might benefit from that even with the rest of the assortment not necessarily where you want it to be at this point? Yes.
I said before and Ill just reiterate we are pretty confident that the Denim cycle has hit bottom and it has been coming back over the last several months.
You also note from where I said and Ive said it before.
I'm a strong opponent of where buying mean as we go into season and obviously we did responsive capabilities and then getting the upside in the AUR.
So we are seeing in Denim right now and its for Gap in particular thats largely the bottoms business especially past summer.
We are seeing trend being indigo trend being distracted trend being patch and repair and then some variation in Lake shape and rise.
We're buying responsibly into those in the back half and in spring 2016 as well.
The other thing that I am really really feeling good about to be quite honest is our fit.
Fit should be an asset for this company and we have had fit challenges and consistency challenges in bottoms in Gap and its something that the team has been very resolutely focused on and Im seeing some significant progress there.
Its probably more of a spring where Im comfortable saying its more of a spring issue that it really hits but its definitely on the teams mind.
Great.
Thank you.
Great.
Thank you so much.
Art I wanted to ask you a little bit about Banana.
Some of the new designs hit in the April May timeframe we havent really seen the customer respond yet to that product.
You mentioned that in your prepared remarks that youre confident in the design and the opportunity to drive the merchandising in the second half of 2015 and 2016.
So I am wondering if you can help us with the changes or adjustments that are being made either within designer to the merchandising process that you think will lead to that improved trajectory thank you so much.
And you know we had a new team come in lead by Andy so the movement was underneath the team including supplementing the design team underneath Marissa and some changes there and we have a team now that Im very confident basically complete the seats are full and the first thing they did was dig into back half product and look and see where they are right now.
And there are some styles in the assortment as you can imagine maybe which were better but they really have their arms around the assortment architecture and have a buying in the business really into Q4 and then in the spring of 2016 and Im distorting my energy as you can imagine towards looking at the product thats in the pipeline; and so Im now seeing each seasonal collection as its in concept and then in adoption and Im pleased and I know Andy is pleased and the team are pleased with how its coming together.
When I refer to the merchandising opportunity obviously its designing a collection thats commercial and then its buying at with a point of view and putting your dollars behind the big ideas are going to drive the business; and weve been brought more flat over the last several seasons versus really distorting towards the point of view and thats something else that Andy is really focused on as we get later in the year and then 2016.
Good evening.
Thanks for taking my question.
On the product front just one question on that should we think about maybe some quality being added back into the product for spring next year too? And then on the store closures how should we think about the cadence going forward and if you have any thoughts may be around the sales retention that you guys think you can give may either to online or other stores out of those? Thank you.
Yes.
On quality the answer is its been on everybodys list and what I dont want to do is say quality the differ comes at a massive cost because those two things dont necessarily go hand in hand.
We are focused on restoring quality in key places with business where it is relevant and perceptible and differentiated for the customer and so thats been a particular focus inside of Banana and a particular focus inside of Gap and it doesnt always come for free but it doesnt always come with a cost either.
And so you could easily choose a yarn in the sweater thats actually more expensive because of the hand field that it delivers but its a yarn that doesnt meet our pilling standards and therefore for the customer its a lower quality experience and so this is only - on my radar Ive mentioned it before its on the radar of the teams for both of those brands as well as Old Navy the customer has a quality expectation thats an opportunity for us.
And so should expect to see some of that in the back half of the year but its been are very intentional focus a design merchandising production and sourcing as we get into the beginning of next year.
On the store cadence why dont I turn that over to Sabrina and she can talk a little bit and I can jump in if I need to.
Sure.
On the store closures were pretty much on track with where we thought we would be.
So we closed about 30 Gap stores in the first half and our best estimate is were still on target to close about 140 of the 175 North America specialty stores we talked about on June 15.
So everything pretty much is still on track there but we will be updating you every quarter.
With regard to the sales retention we talked about $300 million of sales being associated with the store closures in total and we are pretty transparent that historically we havent seen a lot of sales transfer within Gap brand.
Now that said we made a very large concerted effort this time to really really go after the customer with some email pieces direct mail pieces fine edge in stores to try and recapture to the next closest Gap store as well as online; and in addition to that many of these stores were in markets where there was an Old Navy nearby.
And so the Old Navy team also focused and will continue to focus on recapturing some of the sales that are coming from the closed stores.
Great thats helpful.
Thanks.
Thank you good afternoon.
Sabrina could you talk about how youre thinking about currency and the impact on next year given the recent into moves in rates? Sure.
So at a high level as a reminder for our legal entities that do business outside of the United States and the biggest businesses Ill focus on again for us are Japan and Canada because those two together are really our biggest currency exposure because we have about $2 billion worth of sales between those two countries.
Unfortunately those currencies have continued to depreciate.
So we hedge of course those operations are in local currency and they buy the vast majority of their cost of goods in U.S.
dollars.
So they are exposed to the depreciation of their currency and we hedge for them 12 months to 18 months forward to give our merchants and our team certainty around what the cost of sales is but also obviously it eases the impact of the depreciation of the currencies.
Now it doesnt prevent the depreciation of the currencies ultimately hitting us it only delays it.
So with a continuation of the depreciation of the Yen and CAD in particular we are probably going to expect to see continuing headwinds into 2016.
Now currencies are really volatile we will see when we get there and well talk more about that obviously in our Q4 call when we finish doing most of our hedging and we have our budget stand.
But I would say from where we sit today given the way the currencies have moved were going to probably continue to feel headwinds maybe around the same magnitude hopefully not but maybe around the same magnitude as we have this year.
Thank you.
Hi.
Thank you.
Sabrina I was just curious about your views on the merchandise margins for the back half in terms of the puts and takes and I know that youre looking to see a better improvement for Gap division until next spring.
And just briefly what about your bigger picture view for Banana Republic in terms of the market position and the customer profile about where it could go versus where it is now? Thank you.
They are also with merch margins Oliver and we dont give hard guidance on merch margins but to be helpful directionally what we are looking to do obviously is to continue to manage our inventory very tightly and youve heard me say coming off of Q2 where we met our guidance and we were only up 1% we are looking to come down now in Q3 slightly.
So we just keep ratcheting the inventory to get tighter and tighter and we feel that gives us a better probability of getting our average unit retail up and our margins up.
Well see where they actualize the key customer response.
I think our short is probably better in Q4 given what are laid out with regard to Banana Republic and Gap modestly changing their assortments for holiday not so much for fall.
So thats what I give you to try to be helpful.
Ill just go  I would not spend a lot of time on this Oliver and happy to talk about this as well longer.
I guess I have a model in my brain as I think about this business which is number one obviously the competition is extraordinarily fragmented.
Its to me is a blessing because it means that everybody there are many many many share gain opportunities for us.
And then I think about the business in terms of pricing events across categories and the pricing events obviously range from extreme value to luxury and everything in between.
If I look at the opportunity for Banana position where it is where its executing well there is a very large opportunity for us there.
And so Im pretty excited about the growth there as we get the business back on track and especially as we are building the product platforms underneath Banana to be more responsive and more quick and more on trend.
So its a place where we dont quite talk about it as much as we do certainly with Gap and the situation there and then obviously with the strength at Old Navy.
But to me it is a quite powerful growth asset for this company.
Thank you.
Best regards.
Good afternoon everyone.
Can you talk a little bit about marketing? Marketing was down whats the plan for holiday given that the new product will be fully up and running yet and how do you see at both stores and what youre doing with omnichannel? Thank you.
Thanks Dana.
Ill start Dana with Q2 and marketing was down driven primarily by Banana and then the absence of Piperlime and a little bit of Gap.
For Q3 well probably expect it to be down again.
I mean you guys might remember we had a fall campaign for Gap last year which were not anniversarying.
So we are probably going to be down because of that loan and also the absence of Piperlime no other dramatic changes and we might even invest a little more in other brands like Old Navy.
And I would say its probably a little early to talk about holiday because we havent finished those plans but I dont know Art if you want to add anything.
No.
I mean Ill give a somewhat straight answer obviously but nonetheless I think when that I feel pretty strongly about which is the best marketing is good product.
And if I look at Gap as an example we drove the strong business back a couple of years ago in spring of 2012 with modest marketing but exceptional product.
And so what I can say is that as we feel better about the product that will help us think about the marketing that were willing to put behind it.
But I do believe that your marketing should lag good products and that a lot of what will drive the bounce in the business is good product in the stores which you then put some marketing behind in maybe in the next period.
So were managing it very carefully and again as Sabrina said too soon to talk about what were going to do in Q4 its not really there yet.
Thank you.
Yes.
Good afternoon.
My question is on inventory.
If you can help us out with inventory by division if I recall last year when Old Navy was performing exceptionally well there might have been a point in time when you see you had more inventory.
So I was wondering as you go up into anniversary those compares that you might give it a little bit more feel so to speak? Thank you.
Directionally Adrienne I would tell you for sure Gap is going to be the tightest followed closely by Banana.
Because of their performance year-to-date and because we have the most confidence behind Old Navy were going to be very tight with Gap and Banana.
And then to your point Old Navy theyre still managed with their sales level tightly theyre going to have more inventory for sure to see their momentum.
But I think theyre on to something really good and were all holding hands and wed like to see a little improvement in turn as we get forward.
So I think across the board ties the directionally or maybe its definitely going to be inventory better than Gap or BR.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Good luck.
Hi thanks.
Good afternoon.
I guess a question maybe talk Sabrina about the ROD leverage point maybe a little given the store closing announcements.
I know you said that the China and international openings have raised that leverage point but does this now enabled the business to get ROD leverage at a lower point or at least maybe into next year.
And then maybe I know we are lapping last years Gap slow down in the product side.
How should we think about the categories you would expect to turn over time as you started in womens tops youre seeing a little better trend in Denim maybe just talk about the next couple of months here even what we should be seeing at the Gap division versus last year? Starting with ROD you are correct Brian.
We said that most recently it will probably take a lot of mid single positive comp to leverage ROD for the reasons you laid out more of a mix for to international and [indiscernible].
With regard to the impact of the store closures on ROD I would say its not going to be that meaningful and the reason is youll recall that the stores were closing mostly in the lower quality centers.
And in those centers we actually had pretty favorable rent.
So when we take those out of the portfolio it doesnt really appear ROD leverage much because as a percent to rent.
That wasnt the issue with those stores.
It was more brand positioning with those stores.
And then if you just go to categories and Ill be consistent here and not call significant change in the business in the back half even though the team has been able to make some incremental changes as they looked at both fall and holiday.
So if you look at Gap where do I expect bounce as were getting the aesthetic on trend quality etc on track you can just look at the public data and see where weve given up market share.
Knit is a big category in womens where we gave up market share.
It is a niche cycle right now.
It is an opportunity for us to get our share in more than our fair share.
Denim is coming back which is a place that powers the brand and I believe we have really good product development in the pipeline and those are two big categories for the brand so as be brand drivers for Gap.
And so Ill just stop there at the moment but thats  the team is obviously been focused across the entire assortment but to be able to ride the bounce in Denim and then reclaim and sell our fair share in Knits is a big opportunity for us.
And Amber weve got time for one more question.
Thank you very much.
Two questions quickly.
If you could just clarify the strategic charge in 1Q I know its $71 million in 2Q was there any in 1Q? Am I mistaken in thinking there was? No youre right Richard.
Its a good call up.
So just before as we were building into the public announcement we started taking some small actions in the first quarter related mostly to some inventory and related to the store closures.
And when we gave our initial estimate on 6.15 [ph] it included a little bit of that action we had already taken in Q1 building into the announcement.
So consistent with that the number we just gave out for the first half has a little bit of spend in Q1 as once it was announced we accumulated the total charges.
So the $71 million doesnt include the amount of 1Q but the $140 million does? Correct.
Great.
And just a quick kind word on the franchise operation internationally.
Franchise operation continues to be a business that we believe grow strongly obviously also some foreign exchange headwinds there which we dont call on separately but we are bullish on it and now were really just starting to put Old Navy into the mix and so far the read on Old Navy in the Middle East and in the Philippines has been very positive for us.
I dont want to go into a lot more detail right now but its a business that we are long term committed to and getting Old Navy in the mix is pretty powerful for us.
Great.
I would like to thank everyone for joining us on the call today.
As a reminder the press release which is available on gapinc.com contains a full recap of our second quarter results as well as the forward-looking guidance included in our prepared remarks.
As always the Investor Relations team will be available after the call for further questions.
Thank you all.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
My name is Lisa and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Gap Inc.
Third Quarter 2015 Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to introduce your host Jack Calandra Senior Vice President of Corporate Finance and Investor Relations please go ahead sir.
Good afternoon everyone.
Welcome to Gap Inc.s third quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Before we begin Id like to remind you that the information made available on this webcast and conference call contains forward-looking statements.
For information on factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements as well as reconciliations or descriptions of measures we are required to compare to GAAP financial measures please refer to todays earnings press release as well as our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and our subsequent filings with the SEC all of which are available on gapinc.com.
These forward-looking statements are based on information as of November 19 2015 and we assume no obligation to publicly update or revise our forward-looking statements.
Joining me on the call today are CEO Art Peck; and Executive Vice President and CFO Sabrina Simmons.
Sabrina will be using slides to supplement her remarks which you can view by going to the Investors section at gapinc.com.
With that Id like to turn the call over to Art.
Thank you Jack.
So Im going to be pretty short today and I just want to reiterate some of the key points as I look at Q3 Q4 and then spring and beyond next year.
Q3 was challenging for Gap and Banana.
And again largely due to the acceptance in womens product which is not where we wanted it to be.
Let me make something very clear.
We know what the issues are with our products and were addressing those pretty systematically.
I spend a lot of time reading reviews of our product online.
And our customers are very clear in telling us what were doing well and what were not doing well.
And Im very confident having seen the product having been with the teams that were addressing these issues and that as we get into spring of next year were going to see a material improvement across both Banana and Gap and the product that were putting in front of our customers.
So I have confidence in the work that were doing across the Company.
And Ive spoken to you about how we are essentially lifting processes and capabilities from Old Navy and installing them in Gap and Banana Republic.
Ive seen the product in spring now and in summer across all of the brands and Im really excited about how well be back on track in spring and beyond next year.
Im also confident in the momentum of the business at Old Navy and Im looking forward to the product that theyre putting in at the beginning of next year as well.
So let me focus on inventory for a moment.
We spent a lot of time in Q3 focused on inventory and getting clean.
And Im really pleased and Sabrina will provide detail on this that weve come into Q4 with our inventories in very good shape.
That said were in a competitive environment.
And regardless Q4 is always a very promotional quarter.
And so weve reflected the fact that our expectation is that its going to be a very promotional environment in Q4 and we are prepared to play there.
One of the things that we have done very well and weve been very committed to is expense control.
We were prudent and delivered against this in Q3 and you have my commitment that were going to remain very disciplined as we go through Q4.
Ill hand it off to Sabrina in a minute but I want to say something about where my head is relative to looking forward at the prospects of this Company.
I am very confident that we can win.
And I am confident that we can win not on the basis of anything other than the work that the teams are doing to position all of our brands for better and more consistent performance as we get into 2016.
And now Ill turn it over Sabrina.
Good after everyone.
As usual Ill begin today by reviewing third quarter performance and then provide an update on our full-year guidance.
I would like to note that our third quarter reported results include about $13 million in costs related to our previously announced strategic action about $7 million of that total is in SG&amp;A with $6 million in gross margin.
This brings our year-to-date costs related to our strategic actions to $107 million.
So starting with sales for the third quarter on a constant currency basis net sales were about flat.
Foreign exchange negatively impacted our reported net sales by about $100 million in the third quarter.
As reported net sales were $3.9 billion down 3% versus last year.
Total sales and comps by vision are in our press release.
Moving to inventory and gross margin as previously disclosed elevated promotional activity pressured margins as we managed through units during the quarter.
We did however exceed our goal on inventory and ended the third quarter with inventory per store down 4% year-over-year beating our previous guidance.
We expect fourth quarter ending inventory per store to be about flat on top of last years decline of 6%.
Third quarter gross margin was down 290 basis points to 37.3% with about 60 basis points of the decline driven by foreign exchange.
Merchandise margin deleveraged 240 basis points with the greatest pressure at Banana Republic.
Rent and occupancy deleveraged 50 basis points.
Given the challenging business were pleased that our teams continued to manage expenses tightly during the quarter.
Marketing expenses were down $34 million to a $142 million due largely to lower spend at Gap brand.
Third quarter total operating expenses were below last year at $1 billion including about a $26 million benefit from foreign exchange.
Turning to earnings excluding the negative impact from the strategic actions which was about $0.02 earnings per share were $0.63 or $0.61 on a reported basis.
Foreign exchange had about a $0.05 negative impact on third quarter earnings per share or a 6 percentage-point negative impact to EPS growth.
Additionally Q3 of 2014 benefited from a discrete tax item that resulted in a lower effective tax rate of 34.5% in the quarter compared with 37.4% this year.
Regarding cash and distributions during the quarter we closed on a $400 million term loan.
The new funds provide us with additional flexibility including the opportunity to repurchase shares at what we consider an attractive valuation.
Including the proceeds from the loan we ended the quarter with over $1 billion in cash.
Consistent with our commitment to return cash to shareholders we spent $200 million repurchasing shares during the third quarter and over $800 million year-to-date.
We ended the quarter with 404 million shares outstanding.
Including our dividend year-to-date shareholder distributions have totaled about $1.1 billion.
Regarding capital expenditures and store counts year-to-date capital expenditures were $505 million and on a net basis we opened 66 company operated stores year-to-date and ended the quarter with 3 346 stores.
Store count and square footage details are in our release.
And now Id like to share our outlook for the rest of the year.
We are revising our full-year earnings per share guidance to $2.38 to $2.42.
And we now expect operating margin to be about 10.5%.
Our guidance excludes the charges related to our strategic actions which we continue to estimate at around $130 million to $140 million.
All other full-year guidance metrics remain substantially unchanged.
Now let me take a step back and briefly outline two major factors that have changed meaningfully since we set our initial guidance at the beginning of the year.
First Banana Republic significantly decelerated with fall product when we had expected some marginal improvement.
Second it appears to us that the consumer more broadly pulled back on apparel purchasing in Q3 especially outside of value leaving the sector with inventories probably more elevated than desired entering Q4.
While weve done the work to position ourselves for a successful holiday season entering with tight inventories we feel our guidance reflects a prudent outlook given what will likely continue to be a highly promotional environment.
As a reminder 2015 has been negatively impacted by several other items the two largest of which are foreign exchange and the first half port issues.
Normalizing for these items our guidance range implies an underlying EPS decline of about 5% to 6%.
In closing as we enter the fourth quarter well continue to push forward the turnaround efforts at Gap and Banana and work to maintain the solid year-to-date performance at Old Navy.
Thank you.
And now Ill turn it back over to Jack.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We will now open the call to questions.
Wed appreciate limiting your questions to one per person.
Thank you sir.
And we will take our first question today from John Morris BMO Capital Markets.
Thanks.
Good afternoon everybody.
Tough environment out there as weve heard.
Art I think intriguing with your comments I want to get a little bit more color about it in terms of what you are learning about the product as you do your own research and discussions with the merchants there.
Maybe talk a little bit about by the divisions Gap and Old Navy.
But also there I am just thinking there are probably some things that are working as well as what may not be working.
So if you can touch on those items.
Thanks.
Thanks for the question.
I think its a really on target question.
If I just go to Old Navy what I would say is Old Navy continues to develop products very consistently with the filters and processes that theyve been using over the course of the last couple of years.
If you look at whats in the store right now the good news is that while we had to work through some inventory in Q3 we are seeing excellent product acceptance right now.
So you have your normal few styles that dont work but overall the product acceptance is very good pretty systematically across the board.
Its just -- as you know as you noted upfront its a really tough macro environment right now from the point of the customer.
And secondly compounding that not to make excuses but as statistic that October was the warmest October ever and were still seeing the temperatures in the Northeast et cetera pretty warm which obviously means people arent necessarily ready to buy into particularly sweaters and outwear.
But price acceptance is good.
In Gap we are -- and thats really what we saw in October obviously.
Were waiting to see how Q4 kicks in et cetera.
As I mentioned in the call I am very much deep in with the teams across all of our brands Athleta included and looking at product that is in development for next year.
And weve referenced this before in Gap we have issues around femininity around the optimism of the color palettes around the silhouettes that we brought in as big key items.
And weve specifically and intentionally corrected those fit inconsistency has been issue.
And I think I mentioned this before we have a very senior person now in a critical role in the Company overseeing fit across the entire Company and really getting fit consistency particularly in our bottoms business where its critical at the end of the day.
And I mentioned on the call that I look at reviews.
What I would say is this which is if you look at reviews if you get into our stores and talk to our customers we have a process called voice of the customer where we listen to feedback very specifically we do consumer insights.
There is a 100% consistency with what our customers want what is not working for them across all of those touch points.
And those are the things the teams are acting on in both Gap and Banana to get the product back centered to where its needs to be.
So I want to get through right now style by style or anything like that.
But again if I come back to Gap casual optimistic American we have re-centered the development very much around those filters with consistent fit with femininity.
And if I go to Banana which is really updated classics with a twist which is how weve always talked about that business and quality fabrications.
The product development has been very consistent with that as I look at the spring and summer.
Our next question is from Lorraine Hutchinson Bank of America.
There is always a lot of optimism around spring and the new merchandising teams assortments.
I was just curious to hear your thoughts on how youre thinking about inventory for both Gap and Banana going into the spring.
Are you buying inventory for turn to allow those concepts to comp if those products really resonate? Or are you holding back a little bit and forcing them to prove that before you buy the product for it? Lorraine Ive been pretty consistent on this I think and hope that Im consistent youll tell me if I am not.
But I really believe that as youre going into a place like this where there is a turnaround that you buy tight.
And were buying tight.
Our issue is that we are not -- we dont have the pricing authority right now that we need to have even from where we were a few periods ago.
And so to me you buy tight and you let -- you are coming for the business and then we do have some capability to see units into the business if we are seeing styles and programs that are working.
And I would rather go tight with the ability to read the business than come in heavy and regretted at the end of the day.
So obviously were looking for comp were always looking for comp.
But I am not going to drive comp by just making a massive investment in units until we really have confidence about the product.
And so again buy tight feed the business.
Thats the strategy that we will take for both of those business over the course of the next couple of quarters next year.
Next up from JP Morgan is Matthew Boss.
Art a higher level question since taking over the helm what would say has been your biggest disappointment versus initial expectations? And then just any changes from the competition that has surprised you or forced you to change course than in any of your initial gain plan? I would say my biggest disappointment and Sabrina mentioned it in her comments was I expected Banana to be in the better spot in the back half of the year.
And if you go back and look over my comments from earlier in the year I was really hoping that we would get more traction with the new design direction.
Obviously we have made some changes in design and we did that pretty quickly when we felt like we werent where we needed to be.
I have confidence in the current team; I have confidence in the team owning spring and summer.
So its not going to delay what we expect to see as we get into the beginning of next year.
But I was not expecting and I am very disappointed by the deceleration that we have seen particularly with Banana in the back half.
I think I had a much better calibration as to where Gap was and what we are going to be working through but less so with Banana.
And thats been a real disappointment to me and a bit of a surprise.
I would say competitive context probably the biggest issue here is just as we have gotten into Q4 I was surprised to see people carrying inventory in as heavy as they actually did.
And as I said in my remarks we are prepared to play in very promotional environment.
But I hope it would give us the benefit that we do really focus on managing inventories pretty aggressively.
And I think its going to be a tough quarter but I think weve had signals -- a tough quarter from the standpoint of the consumer promotional environments.
And I think weve had signals for a while that the consumer was standing on the sidelines a little bit.
And its just a little bit of a disappointment that we may have some excess inventory and a really promotional environment as we go into Q4.
But again we are prepared to play its why we spent what we spent in terms of getting clean in Q3 because we did not want to carry that inventory into Q4.
Great.
And then just one quick follow-up.
As we think beyond the near-term at the Gap brand and the expectations into the improved assortment in the spring if all went according to plan to achieve a return to positive comps I guess is traffic the key inflection driver of that change? And then is it possible given the game plan to achieve positive comps in the front half of the year or is it really a back half of the year P&amp;L story? So the way the levers move in my mind which is pretty consistent with the way that they have moved.
So I am a big believer in whats history show us.
As you improve your products we dont plan on making huge marketing investments as we get into the beginning of next year.
I think thats imprudent.
You improve your product the customer discovers it; you start to see conversion move on the basis of the traffic that you have in the store.
Word of mouth these days its a super powerful form of marketing.
If you just think about Instagram and Pinterest and the other social media thats a very powerful form of marketing.
And that will start to bring traffic in but its traffic is a legging metric now leading metric.
And is a possible comp of course its possible comp.
But again we are looking for comp out of getting pricing authority back first and foremost rather than loading a bunch of units into the business.
[Operator instruction].
The next question comes from Lindsay Drucker Mann Goldman Sachs.
Hi thanks for taking my question this is Eddie McLaughlin on fore Lindsay.
Can you give us some more insight into what you thought for traffic over the quarter; whether the cadence changed; and if you saw any difference by region or by on and off mall? Sure.
So not surprisingly right traffic has been strongest at Old Navy.
And so theyre mostly in off mall brands.
Banana and Gap are much more in the mall probably -- vast majority of the stores are in the mall.
And I would say directionally Gap traffic was the worst Banana was somewhere in the middle and Old Navy like we said in that dilute sector with their stronger product assortment not surprisingly did pretty nicely even against our read of mall traffic.
With regards to region Northeast in the third quarter was probably the weakest but honestly there was very little differentiation between all of the regions.
And then one follow-up to that at Old Navy is there any more detail you can give on the breakdown of that comp between AURs versus units? No we do monthly sales calls so we give a lot of that every single month.
But Id say overall for the quarter given the fact that we came out of September a little heavy and needed to clear in October units per transaction were probably one of our strongest positive drivers.
Our next question today comes from Anna Andreeva Oppenheimer.
I guess looking at Old Navy lapping that 11% comp in the fourth quarter maybe talk about specific product or marketing opportunities that you are especially excited about for the holiday.
And then as a follow-up great to see the other segment rebound in the fourth quarter we were hoping you could talk about performance at Athleta.
Thanks.
Yes I mean if I look at Old Navy I would say we hope obviously Old Navy has got to play in the categories that really matter in Q4.
It is an important outerwear business and important sweaters business.
As I mentioned we havent had that cold snap yet really across the country that starts to get those businesses going.
But weve seen this before.
And when you get the cold she comes in and she shops.
So Im really confident about the product that we have in the stores.
But with it being as warm as it has were still waiting for demand to really pick up.
Also pleased with the traction that Old Navy is getting in denim and particularly in fashion denim.
Theyve been quite on trend especially with rise in silhouette and were seeing again good product development there that I believe will carry us forward in Q4 as well.
And then last thing is that -- even in Q3 we saw a really encouraging consistency across all divisions in the business.
There is always going to be a difference between mens and womens and kids and baby but its nice to see it when all the businesses are registering good product acceptance.
And despite the fact that were clearing through inventory which puts some pressure on the business I do believe we have very good consistent product acceptance across the whole box.
And then last thing I would just call out which we really expressed in last few seasons is the full family active expression which is in a category where theres obviously higher than market growth.
We have that now in the box all the way down to baby in a full family really put it in the stores without displacing any other programs.
So its about incremental productivity.
And Im very bullish over the long run in terms of what that category is going to be able to drive for the brand.
Yes the only thing Id add to that is from a marketing perspective we definitely have been standing behind the Old Navy.
So even though marketing dollars were down in the quarter they definitely were not down at Old Navy and we will continue to stand behind marketing in Q4 at Old Navy.
So theyll have at least this much marketing in Q4 at Old Navy and likely more radio maybe -- thats the same TV but more radio for sure.
So were clearly standing behind that one strongly.
And Im always looking as we look at our Q4 commercial plan in particular which is what are we doing in terms of incremental non-comp events.
And I think we have a very strong commercial plan lined up for Q4 as we get into obviously next week and then the summer weeks leading up to Christmas.
And just on Athleta follow-up? Thank you again.
With regards to their marketing plan? This was on the other -- on the other...
Yes.
In terms of the other growth rate I mean you can see underlying its pretty healthy.
So you kind of there too have to take into account the fact that were lapping having Piperlime sales last year and we dont have them this year.
And you guys knew we had told you that Piperlime for the full year represented about a $100 million in sales.
So when you correct for that you can deduce that the underlying sales for Athleta are going to be very healthy numbers.
Now next well hear from Dorothy Lakner Topeka Capital Market.
Just wondered if you could give us some color on international trends across the brands given the slowdowns that weve heard about and obviously some newer security concerns just wondered if you could give us a little bit color on international.
Ill just start out Dorothy and say its important to know because we show our sales table in the press release of course and we show the breakout by region.
And so what Ill tell you from that is that were really pleased with our Canada business.
It looks like on a reported basis that sales are down year-over-year but we also called out that were facing a $100 million of headwinds in foreign exchange.
So a lot of that is hitting Canada.
And Asia also looks down year-over-year.
That too is fully explainable.
Both Canada and Asias decline are all foreign exchange driven not underlying business driven.
And then Europe is a little bit more mix.
So theres probably a little bit of business performance as well as the foreign exchange in there.
I dont know Art if you want to add anything? No I think that pretty well covers it off.
I mean the -- in most cases the businesses have done decently well; Canada has been exceptional.
Its just that when you have a headwind like that it obviously depresses the reported performance.
Next up from Adrienne Yih Wolfe Research.
My question is on the SG&amp;A dollars obviously its very-very controlled.
I was wondering what the impact has been of going to the $10 minimum wage in July? And then that marketing spend down about $30 million not from Old Navy so did you just come out little bit half and half from both those -- the other brands and when would you expect I guess in the spring would be the increase in marketing spend for those two brands? Thank you.
Yes so regarding minimum wage we said at the beginning of the year Adrianne that we thought for the full year the impact would be about four pennies on earnings.
So theres no change in our view probably more back half weighted because we stepped up the wages to $10 beginning in June.
So still about at that four pennies.
With regards to marketing the decline was primarily -- in Q3 the decline was definitely primarily driven by Gap.
You might remember last year we had actually a television campaign; it wasnt a big huge widespread television campaign but we actually -- yes we did a lot of video and we -- more on TV somewhat.
So most of it is Gap.
We also have slight declines in Banana and then again the absence of the marketing from Piperlime last year.
Its the third reason that marketing is down in the third quarter.
When we get into next year well talk about it a lot more.
But I think Art and I are in agreement that wed like to see the signs as product acceptance comes through in the important levers of conversion and average unit retail before we invest too much too early in marketing.
From Cowen &amp; Company well go to Oliver Chen.
Hi thanks a lot.
Art regarding the product evolution and whats happening for spring next year you gave us a lot of good details.
But I was curious about the classifications where you saw the most opportunity? Or it sounds like it could be a combination of classifications.
And also from another angle the opportunity in terms of product.
What do you think thoughts about the opportunity in terms of demographics and if theres an intersection between the demographics where you used to have opportunity relative to the products in kind of that dimension as well? Thank you.
Yes.
Let me talk about categories and Im glad you raised the question because part of how were thinking about spring and Gap as an example is where did we not get our fair share? And as a consequence number one where were developing into it and than buying into it to support it.
So Oliver knits is a great example womens knits.
We underdeveloped in 2015 we conceded a fair amount of market share in our womens knits business just because we didnt have the range of development.
And as a consequence as Ive looked at spring and then summer you know we have very intentional development to reclaim and hopefully more than reclaim our fair share of the knits business and its silhouettes its fabrication and its for multiple uses.
And she comes to us she comes to Gap brand knits is an important part of that spring and summer assortment year around but spring and summer in particular.
And so its part of I look at this and I say how much risk do I find versus opportunity.
And when I look at I say its a fair share opportunity of getting our fair share in terms of both development and buying.
Im pretty confident that there is some upside for us there.
Dresses is an another example where especially through later spring and summer there should be a terrific accessible dress business in Gap.
Shirt dresses and then a variety of knit dress fabrications in particular short medium and long maxi dresses.
If you look at our LY assortment there we were very underdeveloped with only a couple of silhouettes.
And again fair share we left a bunch of money on the table because we really werent playing with the range of development that we should have had.
So both of those are good examples of where I feel like theres opportunity.
Ill just go to a third which is denim.
And when I look at products Oliver we always take last years category development and compare it against this years category development.
And so if I look at denim what I saw last year was a lot of development that was relatively overlapping.
So if you had washes the washes were quite similar across the same silhouette.
When I look at our development this year I see much more intentional development to create multiple reasons to buy rather than reasons to buy this or that.
And so I feel good about the denim development and our opportunity there as well.
Those are the approaches that weve taken to every category whether its wovens or knits or denim.
But those are probably three standouts for me where I feel like there is a share opportunity.
On the demographic piece Ive said this before and Ill say it again I feel like Gap is a brand when its at its best and I saw this in stage in 2012 where we were on trend with products that our customers expected.
You know weve got a mom in there and a mom with her teenage or young 20s daughter in the store and if you look at where we are probably underpenetrated today certainly in the millennial customer the customers and older customers in Gap which we talked about and that represents a share opportunity for us across all of our businesses for sure.
The next question comes from Thomas Filandro SIG.
My first question is with the change Art in the leadership at Old Navy I was wondering can we anticipate seeing any adjustments to the merchandising strategy or in-store point of view? And if so when might we see those changes? And just a quick one for Sabrina as we think about 2016 considering the first half the port issues this year should we think about that as a full recovery opportunity in 2016? Thank you.
Let me talk about any changes Tom.
And its a good question I hope that you would give us credit for building on strength and whether its stepping [ph] in building or not in the building or Jill now is interim there is a team that has found their legs and is driving a great business.
And so this is much more about building on strength and maintaining the momentum than any particular need to know do a reset of the business at all.
That said we will always tune and tweak and look for opportunity and learn things we always do which hopefully you will see when you go into our stores is as we get into Q4 we tend to back away from more fashion visual merchandising in the stores towards the more key item presentation.
And just because of volume and the capacity that that gives us in the stores and some easy shopping experience but thats about tuning and tweaking for the season not about a reset as to where the brand is or a need to do anything or change anything fundamentally.
Sabrina do you want to take on the port? Yes I mean its a little early Tom to talk about the first half were well aware of the opportunity we will be lasting in the port.
There is always puts and takes of whats going on in the environment when we get there.
So I think well talk more about that as we actually get an opportunity to talk to you guys every month.
So we will say more a little later once were passed this important holiday season.
Next from Royal Bank of Canada is Brian Tunick.
I guess two questions.
I guess it feels like e-commerce growth the last couple years and some of the things you guys have done as well have helped to offset mall and store declines.
do you feel like theres anything incremental you can do now on the e-com side or omni-channel side the push on that button because clearly mall traffic and store declines are likely to get worse from here? And then the second question for Sabrina on the line of credit and your appetite for buying the stock back here is there a minimum cash balance or just kind of viewpoint as we look into next year what your appetite could look like to be buying back stock at the pace you have the last couple of years? Thanks very much.
Let me just -- Ill talk quickly about the e-commerce piece and then Ill hand it over to Sabrina on the other one.
So to me the big issue and the big opportunity and its both an issue and an opportunity is the continued growth of mobile traffic.
Anybody who is telling you the truth will tell you that its become probably a majority of their traffic growing very-very fast.
And so we are really aggressively focused on making sure that as our traffic pivots from a desktop or a laptop or even a tablet onto a mobile device that were able to monetize that traffic.
And so its about a number of things that weve talked about before that we continue to push aggressively on starting with responsive design that delivers a great mobile experience off of one website but then making sure that the shopping experience is easy greater use of imagery versus text a great check out experience capital applied promotion capabilities which we put in place.
And so making sure that the experience is both emotional immersive and aspirational on a mobile device as a brand experience but also transactionally efficient as a customer buying on the mobile device.
Thats probably the biggest opportunity that weve got right now and were very aggressively focused on it.
Its moving very quickly.
Were excited about it.
Our traffic is growing but the mobile device experience is different than a desktop experience.
And we need to make sure that we can make money there in the same way that we can make money on the other real estate.
Sabrina? Sure yes.
I think I am going to start by saying broadly speaking nothing has changed with regard to our view on our capital structure and our cash balances.
So for some time Brian youll remember its important to us we target investment grade ratios.
And we targeted between a 1 billion to a 2 billion of balance sheet cash.
This is a little bit below than at times but thats broadly been our target and nothing has changed.
Now Q3 always tends to be like it is for many retailers sort of our lower point in cash flow because were building inventories.
And then of course Q4 is a high cash inflow quarter for us.
So we really took the opportunity to execute this term loan just to give us a little bit of flexibility timing wise before all of these Q4 cash flows came in so that we could continue with our philosophy of being opportunistic and make some purchases on behalf of the shareholders perhaps before all of that Q4 cash flow comes in.
so again broadly speaking no major change in our philosophy at all.
Next up is Susan Anderson FBR.
Sabrina I was wondering because it seems like you guys ended third quarter pretty clean on inventory but it seems like you guys still expect the promotional environment out there to be pretty strong in fourth quarter which is typical around holiday just based on your guidance.
Maybe if you could talk about just kind of like by brand where you expect the biggest impact? It sounds like BR [ph] was the biggest in third quarter you expect that to continue in fourth quarter or is just really kind of across all brands? Thanks.
I would say its fair to say Susan that were not expecting big meaningful turns from the current trends weve seen both at Banana and Gap.
Now we know Gaps performance actually has marginally improved on a two-year basis when you look at the comps et cetera but its marginal.
And so were not expecting any big upswing there.
And then Banana has decelerated.
So were certainly not expecting any major change in trend there.
I think more broadly speaking were just looking at the environment.
And as Art said we need to be prepared to compete even though our inventories were pleased that we exceeded our goal in terms of coming in clean.
Were just being realist about the promotional environment we may be facing and thats sort where weve landed in the area we landed.
And our final question today will come from Kimberly Greenberger Morgan Stanley.
I wanted to follow up on inventory.
It looks really very clean here at the end of third quarter.
I guess the only thing that surprised a bit during the quarter is that Old Navy ended up with a bit of a an inventory overage.
And it looks like youve effectively flown through that product in October.
But Old Navy had a really terrific 4% comp I think if Ive got the numbers right in the quarter.
So I am just wondering does that suggest that the inventory about bought for Old Navy was actually bought for an even higher comp? And maybe you can talk about the risk parameters that you apply to each of the divisions as you are thinking about how much inventory risk youre willing to take? Thanks so much.
Yes so Ill back up a little bit Kimberly because we definitely try and buy to current demand we never buy on hope.
And so a lot of the work we do on inventory is to make sure that the teams are grounded in current trends current traffic trends especially.
What happened with Old Navy was really all about September trend dropping off from what we have seen.
So September again was that all important five-week month and we never saw Labor Day come or -- five-week month and we never really saw Labor Day come.
And in a high velocity business like Old Navy where every day of a holiday and certainly every week is very meaningful when you get backed up its trouble for October.
We fortunately earlier in the year made a decision across all of our brands especially Banana and Gap that we were going to go into the last quarter much tighter.
So we have pulled back units across all of our brands and we feel comfortable that the combination of how were entering with the much tighter receding that will go on in the fourth quarter were going to be tight; were going to be in good shape in terms of inventory.
Weve guided to that about flat at the end of the fourth quarter but its important to remember that thats lapping a minus 6.
So were going to -- minus 6 on Q3s ending two-year minus 6 so were feeling pretty good because we want to walk that line that we want to have enough inventory to give us the possibility of those positive comps and yet we want to be tight.
Id like to thank everyone for joining us on the call today.
As a reminder the press release which is available on gapinc.com contains a full recap of our third quarter results as well as the forward-looking guidance included in our prepared remarks.
As always the Investor Relations team will be available after the call for further questions.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude todays conference.
We would like to thank you all for your participation.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
My name is Amber and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Gap Inc.
Fourth Quarter 2015 Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
As a reminder please limit your questions to one per participant.
I would now like to introduce your host Jack Calandra Senior Vice President of Corporate Finance and Investor Relations.
Good afternoon everyone.
Welcome to Gap Inc.'s Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Before we begin I'd like to remind you that the information made available on this webcast and conference call contains forward-looking statements.
For information on factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements as well as reconciliations and descriptions of non-GAAP financial measures please refer to today's earnings press release as well as our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and our subsequent filings with the SEC all of which are available on gapinc.com.
These forward-looking statements are based on information as of February 25 2016 and we assume no obligation to publicly update or revise our forward-looking statements.
Joining me on the call today are CEO Art Peck; and Executive Vice President and CFO Sabrina Simmons.
Sabrina will be using slides to supplement her remarks which you can view by going to the Investors section at gapinc.com.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Art.
Thanks Jack and good afternoon to everyone.
I'm pleased to be speaking to you as we kick off 2016.
We've got 2015 behind us and I want to spend a reasonable amount of time going over my inventory of 2015 some of our accomplishments and some places where I feel like we need to continue to accelerate progress.
I've spoken to you about this before and we're on a journey that is going to continue to take time both against our digital priorities as well as our product priorities.
And so I want to spend a few minutes speaking to that and then I will focus a little bit on 2016 and where we are.
So when I spoke to you a year ago and frankly each quarter that we've had this conversation I've reiterated the fact that we have three core priorities in this company.
The first one is product and so we are at our core a fashion apparel company and our customers come to us for great emotional on-trend on-brand product.
And a lot of the work that we have been doing in 2015 is continuing to move our brands forward to get centered on their aesthetic centered on the right trends to restore the appropriate quality to our products and really put in place the products in our stores that we know that our customers love.
And I am really pleased with the quality of the work and the quantity of the work and the pace of the work that we've been doing across the entire company against our product priorities.
And I've spoken to you about my vision of how products is changing in this industry.
It's fascinating as you look at how the Fashion Week activities have played out over the last couple of weeks a lot of articles out there about how brands are now making product available on runway immediately to their consumers.
We did that in a small way also in Banana Republic.
To me what that illustrates is the increasing clock speed inside of this business how fast trend at the high end of the market disseminates down into the mass markets.
And it's against that backdrop of increasing clock speed increasing pace of this business that we've been making very significant changes in our product process.
And I'm not going to go into all of those today but those are changes focused on getting better and better each season at managing buying risk as we build our assortments an increasingly responsive and short supply chain using science blended with the arts of creativity design and merchandising to build the best possible assortments for our brand and putting in place a very solid commercial planning process that allows us to make sure that we're building a commercial assortment that is on trend on brand with the right quality mapped against delivering and exceeding our budget priorities.
That is not all coming to fruition yet but I'm again pleased with the work that we're doing.
There are a couple of key components here that I want to call out.
I am a true believer in quality a big believer in quality and I believe that our customers are very sophisticated when it comes to understanding the value that we offer them in our products.
And I'm extremely pleased with the quality restoration that I see in Gap's products and in Banana Republic as we look at the spring assortment and the summer assortment going forward.
Second issue is I've talked about responsiveness in our supply chain.
This is a journey and again I'm not going to tell you what yard line we're on or give you a numerical score but we are making significant and rapid progress progress that is reflected in platforming product where we're buying fabrics over multi-season buys positioning that fabric with key strategic vendors giving us responsive capabilities in some cases to leave Open-to-Buy in season so that we can be back into product in season; in essence buying what's working rather than guessing what's going to work.
The third thing is progress on inventory management.
And a big step that we took forward was a couple of years ago where we brought all of our inventory pools across our online and our stores together.
We've made further progress this year where we've leveraged our retail DCs to provide direct fulfillment capacity for our online business and we're continuing to take steps to make sure that we're stranding the least amount of inventory and getting every penny of gross margin out of all of our units across the entire business regardless of what store it's in or what channel it was brought to fulfill.
Second priority is experience.
And on experience I will call out a number of things that we're doing.
We're modernizing our POS.
I've talked about that before.
We've built a number of omnichannel capabilities.
We've virtualized our inventory so that we have access to all of our inventory across all of our demand.
The thing that I am really excited about is the accelerating pace of mobile and the mobile experience that we have.
Historically we've operated our websites in two separate platforms.
We're in the process of bringing those together on a fully responsively designed website.
And most importantly we're going through a cultural change inside the company of really thinking digital first and mobile first.
Historically in this business the moment of truth was when a customer crossed the leased line into a store.
Today as a company we are increasingly seeing the moment of truth is when a customer through their phone comes into our digital store and we either win or lose their affection their engagement and ultimately their sales if we win or lose at that moment of truth.
And that creates for us both an opportunity but also an imperative to move as fast as the customer is moving in mobile.
This year the bulk of our traffic will be mobile traffic to our digital space.
That represents an opportunity because a great majority of that traffic is incremental but it also means that we offer the customer an emotional immersive holistic engaging brand experience along with what we have historically done extremely well which is a very efficient e-commerce transactional experience.
The last priority is talent and the entire company sits on a foundation of talent.
We've been able to attract and retain exceptional talent and I am committed to making sure that this company has the best talent in the industry lined up in our businesses and our functions.
As you all know yet I've not named a permanent head of our Old Navy brand.
When you have a seat like that that is empty which is one of the biggest seats in the business I want to take my time to make sure that I understand looking forward what's the right profile of leadership for that seat and to understand our talent inside and outside the company in a way where I can make a decision that I feel is the best decision for the brand and the company.
Part of what I've spent my time on over the last few months is getting very deep into the Old Navy business and I'll speak more about that in a moment to really understand where are the growth opportunities which are significant but where are those growth opportunities inside of Old Navy and how do we map a leadership role against the pursuit of those growth opportunities.
I knew Old Navy pretty well several months ago.
I've been much deeper with the team over there over the last few months.
And what I will honestly and directly say to you is as much as I was bullish about the opportunity in front of Old Navy before for long-term continuous growth I'm even that much more bullish today.
I see a great brand and a compelling value proposition that I believe has the potential to hunt around the world.
And I'm super excited about the growth prospects in front of that business.
So let's dive in in a little bit more into each of the brands and just talk a little bit about my observations of 2015.
So just to be clear and I'll start with Old Navy since I was talking about Old Navy; four years of growth.
That is a business that has demonstrated that the brand is strong and that the value proposition for masspirational fashion on trend appropriate to the brand with great quality that she perceives and understands for the entire family that's a compelling value proposition.
We hit a bump in the road in Q4 and let me be clear about this.
What happened in Q4 we have diagnosed and it was a combination of factors that unfortunately came together.
First was we had a couple of style misses.
We had a little bit of excess clearance inventory that we carried through.
We had an unexpected drop of traffic which has now for the most part corrected itself.
The team is on it.
I know we're making the right changes and I expect Old Navy to get back on track and continue to deliver the kind of market share leading performance that we've seen now over the course of the last four years.
Let me go to Banana for a moment.
I knew it was going to be a rebuilding year from a product and aesthetic standpoint.
We took Banana to a place where we were trying to lead on fashion and trend and she does not want Banana to be that.
We've diagnosed it we've fixed it.
I've seen the spring product I've seen the summer product but we got behind it in 2015 and I'm disappointed with the performance.
But here's again what I'm confident about in Banana which is we've been doing the right work I feel we have a very strong team in place right now we have centered on the classic appropriate expected aesthetics of the brand.
And I feel much more comfortable that we are on track as we get into spring summer and then fall this year.
So moving quickly to Athleta.
We delivered a very strong back half performance in Athleta.
We have a business that is very well positioned for our customer.
It is right in the sweet spot of lifestyle trend.
It is fundamentally omni-channel in that it came from being a catalog and online business with now over 100 stores in the portfolio and I continue to be very bullish about the upside of that business and the growth potential.
Just as a sidebar I would point out that I've been very supportive in them continuing to look for incremental growth opportunities on top of that solid platform.
And a few weeks ago we announced that we are building out an assortment for all the way from a very young girl up to a teenager inside of the Athleta box.
We're not putting incremental real estate behind that.
Rather we're putting it in our existing stores and we feel that is a significant opportunity.
So a great business one I'm super happy to have in our portfolio and I expect that you will continue to hear more news about Athleta going forward.
Okay.
Last let me finish as I talk about our brands with Gap brand.
And I was kind of starting and ending with Gap brand when we started speaking a year ago.
I knew we had a rebuilding year in front of us.
It started with new leadership a new team around that leadership.
It worked to get the brand centered back on its casual optimistic American aesthetic and then rebalancing the assortment to assert our rightful share in key categories where Gap has always played.
So the last couple of weeks I've been in stores I'm always in stores at the beginning of a big seasonal flow with a cross-functional team after our customers have had an opportunity to engage our products.
First thing I would highlight is a renewed energy in our stores.
It is partly a function of our field team which is world-class.
It is partly a function of the fact that we have product in the stores that lights the stores up.
It's optimistic it's colorful it's feminine for the women it's masculine for the men it's got the right level of sophistication for Gap as a brand and it is much more centered in what the appropriate aesthetic is for the brand.
So I see the aesthetic coming through very strong casual optimistic American.
Second thing I see across key categories a knits complex that is fully developed to take advantage of share of wallet in knits.
We have silhouettes and fabrication that cover a wide range of uses we have color we have print we have pattern we have neutrals we have great quality in those knits and I see strong progress forward just by asserting our right to actually play as we should be playing in knits.
Third denim core category of Gap.
It's what the spring campaign has been focused on.
Silhouettes fabrications wash and novelty all right in the sweet spot of where denim trend is right now and I'm really optimistic about what I see coming in the denim business across all of our brands but particularly in Gap brand.
And so again I could go on and on about this.
I could talk about our woven shirts programs I could talk about intentional outerwear development but I couldn't be more pleased with the progress that the team has made against their diagnosis a year ago on what needed to happen and how the product now shows up in the stores in front of our customers.
One of the things I want to reiterate and just make sure everybody hears it and I'll say this again every time we talk is I have strong conviction about the long-term growth prospects of this company and the work that we are doing to reestablish our dominance in key categories in our businesses to reassert appropriate aesthetic expression of our brands the continued growth across all of our channels and the broad-based geographic growth that we've put a structure in place to achieve.
I am committed to that and we will continue to move down that path.
Why I spend so much time talking about product is product is the foundation for gaining market share.
And so I want to emphasize the fact that our commitment for growth is not just a commitment of building new stores and new geographies of taking new channels to new places.
It's also about moving these brands back to a place where they can gain market share in our core markets.
So 2015 a year of rebuilding a year of focusing on getting our product back on track reestablishing the path for a couple of our key brands.
I'm confident in Old Navy a bump in the road but I'm confident in the value proposition and what that brand means to our consumers.
What I can assure you is my team and I have a great deal of urgency.
I know what this company is capable of at our best.
I know what these brands are capable of at their best.
And I and my team are focused on not just achieving that for a moment but achieving that with consistency.
I'm looking forward to this coming year I'm looking forward to seeing these brands start to perform to their potential and I want to thank you for your support.
Now I'll turn it over to Sabrina.
Thank you Art.
Good afternoon everyone.
Let me begin with our fourth quarter and full year results before turning to our outlook for 2016.
It's important to note that our reported results include pre-tax costs related to our previously announced strategic actions totaling $25 million for the quarter and $132 million for the year.
That is at the low end of our guidance range of $130 million to $140 million.
$98 million of the total full-year charge is operating expense and the remainder hits gross margin.
Now starting with sales.
Sales for the fourth quarter were $4.4 billion.
Comp sales were down 7%.
For the full year comp sales were down 4%.
On a reported basis 2015 net sales were $15.8 billion.
However excluding the impact of foreign exchange net sales would have totaled $16.2 billion down 2%.
Moving to gross margins.
Fourth quarter gross profit totaled $1.4 billion and gross margin contracted 240 basis points to 32.8%.
Merchandise margin was down 140 basis points as reported but down only 80 basis points excluding the impact of our strategic actions and foreign exchange.
Rent and occupancy deleveraged 100 basis points.
For the full year gross profit was $5.7 billion and gross margin was down 210 basis points to 36.2%.
Merchandise margin was down 130 basis points as reported but down only 60 basis points excluding the impact of our strategic actions and foreign exchange.
Rent and occupancy deleveraged 80 basis points.
Regarding SG&amp;A for the fourth quarter total operating expenses were $1.1 billion.
Marketing expenses totaled $169 million $9 million below last year.
For the full year marketing expenses declined $61 million to $578 million.
Total operating expenses for the year were $4.2 billion about flat to last year.
Turning to earnings on a reported basis fourth quarter earnings per share were $0.53 and full year EPS totaled $2.23.
Excluding the impact of our strategic actions adjusted EPS was $0.57 for the quarter and $2.43 for the year.
Additionally it's important to remember that FX negatively impacted full-year EPS by an estimated $0.14 or about five percentage points of growth.
Regarding stores and capital expenditures on a net basis we closed five stores in 2015 and our square footage remained about flat.
This includes about 150 Gap specialty store closures broadly in line with our guidance.
Store counts and square footage are listed in our press release.
Capital expenditures totaled $726 million which was below our guidance as we prudently reacted to the tougher business performance.
Regarding balance sheet and cash flow as a testament to the cash-generating power of our business in an otherwise difficult year free cash flow totaled about $870 million.
Consistent with our commitment to distributing excess cash we paid $377 million in dividends and returned $1 billion through repurchases during the year.
We ended the year with $1.4 billion in cash and our ending share count was 397 million shares.
Inventory dollars per store were about flat at the end of the fourth quarter in line with our previous guidance and total inventory was down 1%.
And now I'd like to share our outlook for 2016.
We expect earnings per share to be in a range of $2.20 to $2.25 and operating margin to be about 9.5%.
Embedded in our full-year guidance is a negative impact from foreign exchange of over $120 million in EBIT which equates to about $0.19 of EPS or eight percentage points of EPS growth off of 2015's $2.43.
Let me say more about foreign exchange given its significance.
Our largest foreign subsidiaries are in Canada and Japan with combined sales in these two countries of about $2 billion.
2016 will be the fourth consecutive year with meaningful headwinds from the strong U.S.
dollar.
Note that our hedges help to delay but not eliminate the impact of depreciating foreign currencies.
To paint the picture of how dramatically currency movements have impacted our results in recent years I'd like to offer a few metrics.
The cumulative impact of weaker foreign currencies to our reported sales results was more than $700 million over the past three years.
Absent these headwinds 2015 net sales would have totaled $16.5 billion up about $900 million since 2012.
The impact to the bottom line is also meaningful.
We estimate that the impact to EPS has been about $0.40 since 2012.
Here are some additional 2016 guidance metrics.
We expect to add 40 net new stores with square footage to remain about flat.
In line with our strategy openings will be focused on China Outlet and Athleta while closures will continue to be weighted toward Gap brand.
We are reducing capital spending in 2016 to support improvement in return on invested capital.
We expect capital expenditures to be about $650 million with a continued focus on mobile and supply chain capabilities.
We expect depreciation and amortization to be about $560 million.
Given our comp includes both store and online sales we decided to guide to total inventory in 2016.
We expect total inventory to be down in the low single digits at the end of the first quarter.
Regarding expenses it's important to note that SG&amp;A may deleverage against our 2015 reported levels as we potentially restore some categories of expense such as incentive-based comp.
And lastly we expect our full-year effective tax rate to be about 38%.
Finally underscoring our commitment to returning excess cash to shareholders we announced a new $1 billion share repurchase authorization.
As a reminder our $400 million term loan matures in 2016.
We currently intend to allocate a portion of our cash flow to repay this.
Therefore 2016 repurchases will likely be meaningfully lower than our historic average.
In conclusion 2015 was a challenging year for us and others in our sector.
Despite our disappointing performance it's important to highlight some of our strengths as we enter 2016.
First we believe that our size and portfolio of brands are a competitive advantage in areas such as sourcing real estate and e-commerce; second as our track record has demonstrated we of course plan to maintain our operating discipline; and finally our reliable cash generation and strong balance sheet allow us to make investments in areas like technology and supply chain needed to win in this evolving retail landscape over the long-term.
Thank you and now I'll turn it back over to Jack.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We will now open the call to questions.
We'd appreciate limiting your questions to one per person.
Our first question will come from Matthew Boss with JPMorgan.
Hey.
Good afternoon.
So I guess my first question as you think about your 2016 game plan and the sense of urgency that you spoke to does the guidance embed positive comps at all three concepts for the year? And then just along those lines how should we think about same-store sales opportunity in the front-half versus the second half? Just any color around your expectation and the drivers associated with would be really helpful.
Hi Matthew.
I'll start and then if Art has anything to add he can chime in of course.
What I'll tell you is our guidance range always includes a range of scenarios obviously.
We prefer  it's our goal to try and return to positive comps this year so we prefer to drive to our range with positive comps.
But it doesn't necessarily require a positive comp to get to our guidance.
So again it's a primary goal of ours to try and drive revenue growth and positive comps but not necessarily required to meet our range.
And the only other thing I'll add to that Matthew is what I've said now repeatedly which is I have a strong bias along with my Presidents and Sabrina to make sure that we are tight on inventory because obviously we've been very promotional.
We don't want to be as promotional and a step in that direction is to make sure we're buying tight and then ideally where we can is to use our inventory responsive capabilities to chase upside if there is upside.
Great.
And on your comment around the potential for deleverage this year what is the fixed cost hurdle? And can you lever on a negative comp as it relates to the SG&amp;A that you were speaking to that you said may de-lever? Yes what I'm suggesting is that if we are meeting all of our goals this year there's especially two categories which there may be reinvestment in.
As you can imagine coming off of the 2015 year we came off of incentive comp/bonus was absolutely minimal.
We also reported that marketing expenses were down over $60 million year-over-year.
So those for example are two categories that if we're tracking well to our goals and doing as we hope to do we would be happy to see reinvestment in and that may cause some deleverage of expense.
Great.
Best of luck.
Thanks.
As a reminder please limit your questions to one per participant.
Your next question comes from the line of Richard Jaffe with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks very much guys and I guess a question following on the comments you made about Old Navy that the fourth quarter ended on a down note with traffic but the traffic was back.
Could you talk about traffic for each division since Christmas or since the start of the quarter? Yes at a high-level Richard I'll tell you that Banana has actually had the strongest traffic.
So consistently throughout the year and through the fourth quarter they've had the strongest traffic which is good news that when the product comes back as we're looking to it to start to come back this month we're at least getting the footsteps in the door.
Gap has had the weakest traffic on the other hand so the whole year Gap has had the toughest traffic.
Now Old Navy for most of the year had pretty solid traffic slightly negative but certainly beating our read of mall traffic.
The surprise at Old Navy really came in the month of November and December where it fell off significantly.
It did return in January.
We're not getting overly excited about that because January is a clearance month so it's really important to see how we do on traffic in the first quarter.
But again Banana was the strongest Gap was the weakest Old Navy's was pretty good up until November and December.
And on top of that one of the most important metrics I look at is what is our sales over traffic spread.
And so that was what was really good.
And also what makes me feel good about Old Navy even though there was a bump in the road which is for a long time they have had a very attractive sales over traffic spread which to me really signifies the health of the brand.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> That's helpful.
Thank you.
Yep.
We will go next to Anne-Charlotte Windal with Bernstein.
Yes.
Good afternoon.
Thank you for taking my question.
A question for you Art on the competitive landscape and in particular obviously like Primark entered the U.S.
market last year.
So I'm sure it's something you're tracking very closely.
So what type of impact have you seen from their first store opening so both at KING OF PRUSSIA and in Boston where I think you have a Gap factory store across the street from Primark.
Thank you.
Yes something that's absolutely on our landscape.
I and my teams are always making sure that we're watching all the competition and certainly a new entrant like Primark which has had track record of their success and growth very consistently obviously that they've had in Europe.
I was with the team.
In fact Jack was there with me in the Downtown Crossing store shortly after it opened.
We've been looking at it very carefully in the KING OF PRUSSIA store as well and we have our eyes really on it.
Probably the one thing I'll call out is overall two stores in a very large market haven't had a noticeable impact yes.
And so if I look across our whole business too early to call that at the end of the day.
Downtown Crossing specifically where you note that we do have a Gap factory store business has remained strong in that store.
Traffic is strong in that area.
Big grand opening in fact with Primark opening as well but it's very early days and we're on it we're watching it.
My issue there always with a new competitor particularly one like Primark it does come in with very sharp price points with an everyday low pricing policy.
Very intrigued to see how the American consumer responds to that against the backdrop of how the whole sector typically prices which is obviously more promotional pricing.
So early days watching it carefully.
Thank you.
And we will go next to Lorraine Hutchinson with Bank of America.
Thank you.
Good afternoon.
Sabrina you cut a significant amount of costs out of the fourth quarter and I was just curious how you're thinking about the sustainability of that.
If things don't track towards positive comps are there more cuts that you could make to stay within your guidance range in 2016? Yes we have proven year-over-year Lorraine that we're very disciplined about our expenses.
Partially our structure helps us right? So we've talked about the fact that over half of our expense base is related to our stores and over half of that is variable to sales.
So when we have sales come down as they did in the fourth quarter we get some natural variability and expenses come down as well.
I mentioned in my previous response as well as in my prepared remarks that we obviously paid minimal bonus in 2015 so that was a portion in the fourth quarter as well as throughout the year but probably especially in the fourth quarter of how we brought down the expenses and then finally marketing as well.
So that is actually the very reason why I'm signaling that there may be some deleverage in 2016 as we hopefully are meeting our goals for the year.
That said we're going to continue to manage our expenses very very tightly so you can count on us from an absolute perspective to manage them quite tightly and I think we've proven that we're petty adept at using the levers depending on how business is performing to bring those in line.
Thank you.
And we will go next to Simeon Siegel with Nomura Securities.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Sorry about that.
Can you hear me? Yes.
We can hear you.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys.
Sorry.
So it's small Sabrina but just the other U.S.
revenues were down.
Is that residual Piperlime anniversarying? And maybe anything you guys can share on just the expected Athleta sales growth and trajectory there? Maybe ultimate store fleet size? Thanks.
Yes no thank you for asking that question.
Yes the other is mostly made up of Piperlime which of course we closed in the first quarter of last year Athleta and INTERMIX.
And so yes it looks down driven by Piperlime.
If you exclude Piperlime we're actually up a low-double-digit in revenue growth there.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks.
And then just given the commentary around the debt pay downs any color on expected interest expense for the year? No it's pretty easy to calc.
We have the bond outstanding and you guys know that's at a 5.95% interest rate.
And then the term loans at LIBOR plus 75 basis points.
So it won't fluctuate that much.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
All right.
Thanks a lot.
Best of luck for the year.
Thanks.
And we will go next to Dorothy Lakner with Topeka Capital Markets.
Thanks.
Two quick things one just on the style misses at Old Navy for Art you seem comfortable that that's behind the brand.
So just wanted to make sure on that.
And then for Sabrina on the strategic actions the costs I know you broke it down between OpEx and gross margin for the year.
Just wondering how the $25 million in the fourth quarter breaks down? Yes let me take on the style misses and so to answer your question am I comfortable that style misses are behind us? No.
We're always going to have some style misses obviously.
Design's job is to push creatively and merchandising's job is to counterbalance that with a commercial orientation.
We all across our brands and frankly across the industry one of the bigger style misses of last year was tops went to a silhouette that was a little bit shorter and a little boxier and many women voted that it wasn't very feminine and wasn't very flattering and it was a style that was out there but it was a style that frankly didn't really register with a lot of customers and that's a good learning.
The word femininity is one that continues to be one that I'm pushing to the front whether it's across tops or bottoms.
Probably a bigger issue.
And then there was a little bit of an issue where we got little bit over-assorted.
We got pretty enthusiastic about some sweater styles where there was duplicative choice.
And it meant that she came in and she bought  it was an or versus an and.
And again I'm confident that as Sabrina and I have leaned in with the team and learned about the business and looked at how we bought it in February and March and April obviously looking at that and making sure we're re-registering where we need to be from a style count and a trend standpoint.
We're always going to have some misses.
I mean the whole point of the work we're doing is to minimize the misses and as I keep saying guess less guess better and fix faster.
Sabrina? Yes and then Dorothy on your question.
In the quarter we had $25 million from the strategic actions.
$19 million of that was operating expense and $6 million of that was in gross margin.
And just to be helpful I'll say again that full year was $132 million $98 million was expense and $34 million was gross margin.
Great.
Thanks.
Sure.
And we will go next to Kimberly Greenberger with Morgan Stanley.
Great.
Thank you so much.
Art you spent a lot of time talking about product initiatives at the beginning of the call.
And you sound fairly confident that the various divisions are on the right track for 2016.
I'm just wondering is there some evidence you can put around that? We're just trying to figure out what is it that gives you confidence that the adjustments that are being made at the brand level will resonate with customers and generate the sales growth you're looking for? Thanks so much.
Yes it's a lot of things and I continue to ask myself this as well which is because I'm very impatient on marching against the metrics that I know we need to do.
So let me just highlight a bunch of things and again I'm not going to go through specific quantitative analysis here.
But several of the things that I feel very confident will register with our consumers as they start to fold back into the assortment.
So we just had huge quality misses.
Literally places where whether it was fits or the quality of the fabrication it made the product very difficult to wear.
I think I've cited this before but blazers in Banana Republic women's assortment where it was extremely difficult for the average woman to actually get her arm into the armhole.
So if you just take those out and you get back to common sense quality that our customers expect that is going to register with our customers.
A second place places where we intentionally underdeveloped the product because of either we assumed it wasn't trending or it was the preference of an individual in a seat or whatever.
An example of that is knits in women's knits in Gap brand where we underdeveloped last year we left market share on the table and this year we have very intentional development across fabrications and silhouettes that we believe play in the relevant wear categories and wear occasions for us.
And that's another place where I call it sort of reasserting development to get our fair share of market share.
And I've been in the stores now and looked at that and I encourage you to do that.
You can see where we actually have a significant knits complex built out.
Accessories would be the same.
There's a spectacular cinch ballet flat.
I think it's in 10 colors it's now in the stores and we do business all day long with that and it wasn't in the stores a year ago and so those are places where again question why we did it but we've gone back in and said our fair share we play here this is where the brand plays.
And then the last thing is the more complicated question is around our responsive capabilities.
And so again that is a journey right now.
But we have in our twill programs in the spring as an example and I've talked about this before the ability to be much faster in the product that is selling on our shelves through a combination of owning the fabric having the fabric positioned approximate to vendors who have the capacity reserved to cut and sew into it.
And ideally those vendors particularly for North America and the Caribbean basin so that we can cut sew wash and dye put it on a boat and have it back in our stores very quickly.
All those things to me are kind of obvious that they will give us upside.
So the only issue on my mind right now is will these things work and impact? It's just the pace and the timing.
Sabrina noted in Gap brand that our traffic has been toughest there frankly in my mind because we've been off-brand for longest there.
So the pace and the timing of when the customer comes back discovers the product embraces it tweets about it posts it on Instagram and Pinterest that's really the unknown right now but I'm very optimistic.
Thank you.
And we will go next to Ike Boruchow with Wells Fargo.
Hi everyone.
Thanks for taking my question.
I think either Art or Sabrina I think it was about 175 Gap stores that you guys outlined at your last Analyst Day for closure and I think you did most of those.
When you're looking at the fleet right now if we were to look you gave us your guidance for footage this year but if you look three years out how does that look? Are there fewer stores? Are there similar amount but much smaller boxes? I'm just kind of curious how you think about the business over the next couple years.
Yes.
And I would say right now we feel comfortable with the fleet size.
We feel like that sweet spot where we are is a good number.
We work it continuously and we're always looking at opportunities to either put a store in place like the Time Square that we announced where there'll be a Gap and an Old Navy going into Times Square.
Or a store if it's not delivering or we feel like the real estate is not appropriate for the brand we will get out of that real estate.
But at the moment I'm not ready to call a number different than where we are as we look forward.
Second thing I wouldn't really focus on and I've talked about this is I'm a strong believer in the fact that we can do more business in less real estate in the same location and that is what we're focused on.
Obviously you can't flip the fleet overnight into smaller stores but every opportunity we have whether it's a lease coming up or a reposition or an opportunity to give some space back and densify we're going to be taking aggressively advantage of those opportunities.
And Gap's got the biggest opportunity there in my view.
We tried a store in China.
I was in that store a couple weeks ago and super pleased by what I saw.
It was a very small store footprint with a full expression of Gap brand and most importantly it worked for the consumer.
And so the early days of really thinking aggressively about densifying through fixtures through folding versus hanging through how we use the total cube of the store aisle width all those kinds of things I'm very encouraged by the opportunity there.
But again that's not an overnight flip.
Thank you.
And we will go next to Oliver Chen with Cowen and Company.
Hi thank you.
Art regarding responsive supply chain is there an axis we should think about it with respect to store banners in terms of being  more opportunity to certain banners? And then also the dimension of product category? And as you improve product I just wanted to get briefed on how you'll sequence in marketing as you have more conviction that product is improving.
And just lastly Sabrina on the guidance is our merch margins assumed to be flattish? That would just be helpful.
Thank you.
Yeah if I think about responsive and again responsive is a whole bunch of stuff bundled together.
But let's just basically talk about one of the things that cuts out many weeks which is making a multi-season commitment to a fabric and then having that fabric prepositioned to cut wash dye and sew into.
That is most powerful as a capability in cotton fabrications.
And so that applies to denim to twill to knits et cetera really consistently across all the brands.
If you start getting into synthetics and then obviously wool silk and those types of things it's less an issue there because you just can't necessarily platform those fabrics although you can some of them not all of them.
Importantly you can also platform yarns for sweaters at the end of the day.
So if I think about the least relevant categories probably accessories or outerwear.
Most relevant would be our core cotton fabrications which we have that are an important part of the business across all of our brands in denim and twill in knits and fleece et cetera.
So we wouldn't be pushing on something here if it wasn't meaningful for the entire business.
Importantly it's actually also meaningful for Athleta in wearing (46:52) performance fabrics as well.
So this is something that's largely applicable to the total company.
Yeah and then with regard to merch margins Oliver we don't explicitly guide to merch margin only the operating margin which I gave you.
But to be helpful there is sort of headwinds and tailwinds.
So the tailwinds in merch margin are clearly going to be the fact that we worked really hard for 12 months to put out new assortments this year where we are hopeful that the customer votes in favor of higher product acceptance.
Also on the margin I would say although I don't want to make it any kind of big headline but on the margin there is certainly some average unit cost tailwind.
So those are the two tailwinds.
On the flipside you have foreign exchange which we've guided is actually growing in 2016.
And remember in 2015 it hurt our merchandise margins by 50 basis points and it's bound to be even bigger in 2016.
So underlying basis of course we are hoping to get some merch margin expansion but you kind of have to weigh that against the headwind of foreign exchange.
Okay great.
Both of those frameworks really help.
Thank you very much.
Yep.
We will go next to Paul Lejuez with Citigroup.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hey thanks guys.
Can you talk a little bit about the profitability of China in 2015 what you expect for 2016 and just how you expect that business to grow over the next couple of years? Thanks.
Yeah I'll start and then Art can I'm sure talk about it as well.
So I think we said a few months back publicly that we expected Gap China to be profitable on a management basis in 2015.
And in fact we achieved that goal.
So we are very pleased with that.
We would expect of course Gap China to continue to improve its profitability year-over-year as time goes on.
So that's Gap China.
If you look at China as a whole of course we launched Old Navy recently and as you can imagine just starting a new brand that one is not profitable yet.
And these things especially in China take a few years.
But the good news is Gap China met its big milestone of profitability this year and we expect that to continue going forward.
Let me talk about Old Navy and just underline that there.
So we opened a handful of stores and I guess in my mind the sequence here  the responsible sequence is open some stores across some relatively heterogeneous real estate and then start getting the four-wall model correct.
And that's what we have been working on right now.
I am really really big on making sure that we understand the best four-wall model what kind of sites that's located in whether it's a lifestyle center or a street front store or a value center or whatever and also the store size.
And then once we are comfortable with that put the hammer down on opening real estate after we've got the four-wall model done.
And with Old Navy I'm not worried about real estate availability.
When that business hunts it hunts in a big way.
And it also is a big traffic draw and so there's a lot of landlord interest out there.
So the pace to me right now is going to be set by making sure that we've really got the four-wall model correctly but again as I said before I'm very bullish on that value proposition around the world.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thanks guys.
Good luck.
Yep.
And we will go next to Betty Chen with Mizuho Securities.
Inc.</span></strong> Hello.
Thanks.
Good afternoon everyone.
I was wondering Art if you can talk a little bit about your initial thoughts having seen the Gap spring product inside the stores and how it's returned to its heritage.
And what are some of the goal posts that you're looking for in order to feel more comfortable investing marketing dollars behind the brand? Thanks.
Yep.
Yeah again as I said you can imagine I don't have very long fingernails right now.
As the spring product has gotten into the stores and I've been out in the stores a lot.
And I've been out in stores a lot on an unannounced basis because I want to see what our customers are seeing versus what's been prepped for a CEO visit and I went into the  I'll just call one store out right now went into the store that we have flagship store on 54th and 5th last week in New York.
The product was fully expressed there spring.
We flipped that store.
We brought women's down from the second floor down to the first and I walked in and I have to honestly say I'm not sure I've ever felt like that store showed up better as an expression of Gap brand.
The color was evident the femininity was clear.
We had strong ownership and it's clear why we're in the business from the standpoint of women's bottoms whether it's twill denim or bistretch bottoms.
The accessory statement was very powerful.
And so if I think about a from-to of last year neutral color palette unfeminine silhouettes some quality issues in our business lots of overlapping denim development et cetera I feel like the from-to is optimistic print pattern and color feminine silhouettes intentional denim development ownership in the bottoms business great accessories business.
And so it's a big step in the right direction.
The most important metric I look at and I'm not going to go into the detail of this is as we're obviously working our way through product from last year clearance product et cetera I want to look at the new product that's current season code and understand how we bought it and then what kind of comp we're running off of it.
And those are the most important early leading-edge indicators of whether we're seeing good customer acceptance of the product so that's what I'm looking at right now.
And then it'll eventually aggregate obviously if we're seeing good customer acceptance we're overselling our buy plan that will aggregate the comp.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Good luck.
We will go next to Anna Andreeva with Oppenheimer.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Great.
Thanks so much.
Good afternoon guys and thanks for taking our question.
We had a question on athletic performance by brand.
Hoping Art you could talk about Athleta performance during the quarter and also Old Navy where we think it's been a little bit softer as of late.
And we've seen additional promotions there.
And with 15 new store openings at Athleta for 2016 I think that's reined in a little bit from historic levels.
How do you think about this size of the footprint going forward? Thanks.
That was a lot of questions embedded in one.
You did that artfully.
Let me comment on Athleta first.
Athleta had and I think we mentioned this and I'll just underline it a very strong back half and I was really pleased with that.
The assortment was in line.
They were on trend.
The product was well bought and I was really pleased with the numbers.
If you look at Old Navy because you raised that specifically we have had excellent performance out of the full family expression of activewear inside of Old Navy.
We had been a little bit more promotional so you are correct on that.
But that does not signal anything other than we still have excellent performance out of that business and we're seeing very strong growth.
I'm really encouraged frankly across the whole company as I look at it right now because if you take Athleta Old Navy is full family active expression add to it a young girl to tween expression inside of Athleta and then a full family expression inside of Gap.
We are present and accounted for in the mainstream of what is probably the most important ready-to-wear trend that we've seen since skinny denim maybe came on the scene.
And so I feel like we're a very well represented there.
We have great fabrics great development and as a company we can share assets across the company across fabric platform and things like that.
So it's a powerful place for us to be.
If I specifically look at Athleta's growth rates and again I've said this before we are learning every day what the right mix of online catalog and stores is in the Athleta business.
It's the opposite of what has happened in mainstream retail where people have gone online from a stores business where in Athleta we've gone into stores from an online and catalog business.
And our initial expectation as we started to open stores was that it would probably be cannibalizing of our online business.
And as we've learned and seen how the store channel and the direct channel interact with each other we are really pleased to see that the direct business continues to grow even as we open stores and that as she discovers it in a store she goes to direct et cetera.
So I can't tell you I know what the right fleet size is right now.
What I can tell you is that if I can grow this business in a highly accretive way without putting additional CapEx and the fixed expenses of our operating stores into the ground and continue to see that growth happen to our existing stores and the online channel that's a very attractive thing to do.
So we are taking it slow and easy right now as we continue to explore the channel dynamics.
But I am in no way signaling the fact that we have nothing but anything but very strong growth expectations out of that business.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Terrific.
Thanks so much.
Our last question will come from the line of Ed Yruma with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys thanks for squeezing me in here.
I guess just first on the role of outlet online I know you've kind of shifted the presence and really developed full-fledged sites.
So I guess how should we think about the positioning relative to some of your full-priced sites and whether you're intending to see some cannibalization going forward? And then second Sabrina it sounds like a number of other chains are able to renegotiate leases with some of the REITs.
I know you guys have been very tight with your ROD but how should we think about ROD for this year? Thanks.
Let me pick the outlet question up here.
We've gone slow into this space.
Frankly the reason we've gone there is that's where the customer is and we've got to go where the customer is right now.
The whole outlet business has continued to morph over the last decade.
It used to be a business that was highly physically isolated relative to the specialty business and obviously there's been a collision going on where outlets get closer to specialty and the suburbs have spread out to where the outlet malls were built.
And the online channel is another extension of that at the end of the day.
That's where our customer is and we felt a need to have a presence there.
It's early days right now we are in our early days of having this channel.
It's very difficult to identify anything that is cannibalizing anything frankly versus the fact that it is complementary to the existing outlet channel.
But we are watching it very carefully and we are trying to understand how it interacts number one with our outlet stores because that's critical but then number two with the specialty business as well.
What I will say is when all the businesses are healthy the channel distinctions the price distinctions et cetera are very clear to the consumer.
But we are watching it very carefully.
Yeah with regard to ROD I would say look the team is very focused on OEs aggressively negotiating the best deals we can especially given the size of our fleet and the size of our brand portfolio.
What is happening and has been happening for the last few years in ROD.
We've gotten most of the unproductive stores behind us right? And when we were closing and downsizing a lot of the unproductive square footage we were able to leverage very easily even on negative comps on some years but that is all behind us now.
What is happening now is the international stores actually are a big headwind because as a percent to sales they are a higher percent to sales.
Now within their country every year we are trying to get them to leverage.
But from a mix perspective they hurt the overall ROD profile.
So where we sit today is it takes sort of a low single-digit comp to leverage ROD.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks so much guys.
I'd like to thank everyone for joining us on the call today.
As a reminder the press release which is available on gapinc.com contains a full recap of our fourth quarter results as well as the forward-looking guidance included in our prepared remarks.
As always the Investor Relations team will be available after the call for further questions.
Thank you.
Thank you.
That does conclude our conference.
You may now disconnect.