Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Halliburton First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to your host today Christian Garcia Senior Vice President Investor Relations.
Please begin.
Good morning and welcome to the Halliburton's First Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
Today's call is being webcast and a replay will be available on Halliburton's website for seven days.
The press release announcing the first quarter results is available on the Halliburton website.
Joining me today are Dave Lesar CEO; Mark McCollum CFO; and Tim Probert President Strategy and Corporate Development.
I would like to remind our audience that some of today's comments may include forward-looking statements reflecting Halliburton's views about future events and their potential impact on performance.
These matters involve risks and uncertainties that could impact operations and financial results and cause our actual results to differ from our forward-looking statements.
These risks are discussed in Halliburton's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2010 and recent current reports on Form 8-K.
Our comments include non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in the press release announcing the first quarter results which as I have mentioned can be found on our website at www.halliburton.com.
Dave? Thank you Christian and good morning to everyone.
The events in Japan geopolitical turmoil in the Middle East and North Africa and worst-than-normal weather patterns impacted the global energy industry in Q1.
And these events weighed on our results particularly causing a significant decline in our Eastern Hemisphere margins in the first quarter and magnified the seasonal drop off we historically experienced in the first quarter of the year.
This sharply contrasted with the excellent performance in North America where margins progressed as rig activity grew modestly in the quarter.
Given these factors I am extremely pleased with our Q1 results.
In my 16-plus years of experience at Halliburton we've never had a quarter that's had so many moving parts in it.
And despite these headwinds the events that transpired have absolutely not dampened our enthusiasm for the long-term prospects of our business.
And we continue to believe that the industry is on the verge of the next major up cycle.
Overall revenue in the first quarter was $5.3 billion which was a new company record.
Against the prior year revenue and operating income grew 40% and 81% respectively primarily from continued growth in our North American operations.
Let me now discuss our operating results in more detail starting with North America.
So there's no mistaking our view going into this discussion.
Since you know what our headline is there is clearly room for revenue and operating income to grow as we get further into 2011.
Compared to our U.S.
rig count increase of just 2% our North America revenue and operating income grew sequentially by very nice rates of 13% and 16% respectively.
The growth came from our continued strategic investments in the North America market.
Our Q1 results were impacted by abnormally harsh weather in areas such as the Mid-Con the Rockies and particularly the Bakken where we have a disproportionate market share of the work.
As we pointed out in our fourth quarter call we estimated there were approximately 3 100 uncompleted wells at the end of the year.
Given the constraints brought about by the weather in the first quarter we believe the number of uncompleted wells increased to roughly 3 500 at the end of Q1.
We expect to work off some of these backlog in the second quarter depending on industry capacity adds and customer activity levels.
The shift to the oil- and liquids-rich plays remains unabated and as evidenced by oil-directed rig count growing 11% while the gas rig count declined by 5%.
Horizontal oil-directed activity represents the fastest-growing segment in the market today growing approximately 170% over the prior year.
The structural change toward oil- and liquids-rich reservoirs has favorable implications to our overall business.
Oil development requires longer laterals a higher number of frac stages much more complex fluid systems and increased profit volumes.
These factors are driving the increased service intensity of the unconventional oil reservoirs compared to those in the dry gas areas.
Historically service intensity has been measured primarily by horsepower deployed per job.
However given the structural change towards the liquids-rich reservoirs the driver for service intensity has shifted toward fluid chemistry completion design and other technologies.
Taking all of this into account we currently estimate the average revenue per oil in liquids-rich well could be 1.4 to 1.8x that of a dry gas well depending on the basin that you're in.
The work in oil- and liquids-rich plays is technically more complex.
We believe the shift to these resources will persist and continue to benefit service providers that have reservoir knowledge premium technology and most importantly integrated service offerings.
We are developing also fluid solutions that set new standards for environmental performance.
We continue to improve public access to the ingredients we use in our frac-ing fluids and are disclosing the ingredients used in a typical fracturing formation on our website.
Going forward I feel even more confident about the resiliency of North America activity through 2011 than I did at the beginning of the year.
Elevated oil prices are increasing operator cash flows which together with their ability to raise capital provide us an expanded availability to use these funds as they invest them.
In addition the geopolitical turmoil in certain international oil-producing basins is once again forcing customers to look toward more stable markets like the U.S.
This could lead to even further acceleration of upstream spending in the U.S.
and North America.
Gas-directed drilling activity continues to be curtailed now down about 10% from the levels experienced during the summer of 2010.
In the near term we continue to believe that gas drilling could remain under pressure as gas produced in association with oil and NGLs inhibit the correction of the oversupply situation.
However any curtailment in natural gas drilling should be more than offset by an increase in liquids-directed activity.
As such there is a bias toward increased activity on U.S.
land for the remainder of 2011 and this is reinforcing our confidence on the sustainability of our North American margins throughout the year.
We are seeing some inflation on various cost items like labor chemicals and proppants which may temper margin increases as we move forward throughout the year.
As you know we've been very bullish on the U.S.
market when some of our competitors were not.
We remain extremely bullish on this market and we are very happy with the position we have in it today.
Another very positive development in North America is the issuance of 10 drilling permits in the Gulf of Mexico.
If you look at the service contracts associated with these wells Halliburton will be performing approximately 30% of the drilling services and 40% of the completion work on them.
This is actually higher than our historical market share.
Our customers continue to communicate their commitment to the Gulf and discuss potential projects using our existing contract base.
Our strategy of keeping our infrastructure and most of our headcount during the deepwater drilling suspension of course impacted our short term results but is now giving us the ability to respond to our customers quickly.
As activity recovers we should start seeing the benefits of this strategy.
We will start moving some of our personnel and equipment currently deployed in U.S.
land back into the Gulf in the coming quarters.
Let me now turn to our International business starting with Latin America.
Latin America posted good results for the quarter.
We are seeing shale development work evolving in many parts of Latin America and we are excited about leveraging our expertise in unconventional resources to help our customers unlock the potential of these plays.
Mexico continues to be challenging and we expect growth in our Latin American region for the rest of 2011 to be led by Brazil Colombia Venezuela and Argentina.
In Mexico we continue to make progress in our Remolino lab project that will be utilizing our horizontal and completions techniques to enhance production for the Chicontepec field.
We are also seeing potential increases in offshore activity.
But despite these opportunities the reduction in activity in the northern region will tamper the expected overall growth in Mexico for 2011.
Now let's turn to the Eastern Hemisphere.
In our fourth quarter call we reminded everyone of the typical seasonality-related declines that historically occurred in the first quarter of the year.
These items were further exacerbated by harsher weather and disruptions caused by the turmoil in North Africa and the continued impact of overcapacity leading to pricing pressures.
Now so you don't get too excited about our North -- don't get too excited about our Eastern Hemisphere margin drop.
We expect our Eastern Hemisphere margins to improve in the second quarter.
They will however continue to be impacted by the situation in Libya and by competitive pricing.
As activity accelerates during the second half of the year we anticipate margins will return to the levels seen in 2010.
Now let me tell you about the events that impacted the results in Q1.
Normal decline from Q4 due to seasonality of software sales direct sales and weather-related slowdowns accounted for approximately $110 million of the decline.
North Africa political unrest and other disruptions to operations causing operating losses in the Libya charge accounted for about $105 million of the decline.
We also experienced delays in Iraq where we finished work-over activity and expected to immediately begin integrated drilling programs on several of the contracts that we won.
There have however been customer delays mainly due to site access issues and unexpected delays in the government ability to move forward with the approval of contracts.
All of this we estimate reduced operating income by approximately $20 million over Q4 in Iraq.
Going forward weather should clear itself up in Q2 and not have a significant impact on our near-term results.
Egypt while not operating at 100% should be nearing normal activity levels in the next several months.
In Libya there is no relief in sight and our operations are completely shut down for the foreseeable future.
We took a charge for receivables and some property -- personal property-related issues and some compromised inventory.
We have however taken no impairments for fixed assets at this time and we have some insurance to cover issues like this.
But impairments to fixed assets could occur as the situation remains very fluid and obviously we will continue to monitor it carefully.
And in Algeria while things are getting better the industry is still having issues getting administrative approvals on contracts and contract extensions.
In Iraq the impact of project delays was unfortunate in its timing as we were fully mobilized to move from work-over activity to integrated drilling.
We have however maintained our mobilization readiness despite these delays and we now expect that our work on these projects will start in Q2 and Q3.
We are still very optimistic about the market in Iraq.
We continue to win work there and we expect to be profitable in our operations in 2011.
Pricing also continues to pressure profitability and leading edge pricing remains highly competitive across the industry in almost all markets.
Tendered or negotiated prices that were set in the last several years will continue to hamper any significant margin improvement in the international margins for the entire industry despite the higher volumes that we are seeing.
So as I said we expect our Eastern Hemisphere margins to improve in the second quarter.
They will however continue to be impacted by the situation in Libya and by competitive pricing.
But as activity accelerates during the second half of the year we anticipate margins will return to the levels seen in 2010.
Going forward oil fundamentals remain robust as supply disruptions stemming from the unrest in Libya and other countries continue to exert pressure on the industry's overall production capacity some of our customers have indicated to us that they are now looking to increase activity in other parts of the world in the second half of the year.
One example of this is in Saudi Arabia where our customer is planning to increase the rig count approximately 30% in the coming year.
Fortunately 60% of this increase will be assigned to the Manifa project.
Manifa would add approximately 900 000 barrels per day to the country's production capacity.
Halliburton as you will recall won the offshore portion of Manifa in 2008.
The project was delayed due to the global recession but will now start mobilizing in the next several months.
And we believe you will see an impact from the increased activity on Manifa in the second half of the year.
The potential activity increase in Saudi although positive has not changed our view on the pace of the international recovery.
We have won a number of recent contracts and strategic growth areas giving us further confidence in this strengthening market.
And Tim will discuss these in a few minutes.
We are very pleased with the progress we have made so far in focusing our resources into the market's fastest-growing segments.
We continue to commercialize our core technology.
We continue to win key contracts.
We continue to make the necessary investments to ensure that we gain momentum as the industry enters the coming up cycle both in the U.S.
and the international markets.
Now I'll have Mark give a little more flavor on the financial results.
Mark? Thanks David and good morning everyone.
Our revenue in the first quarter was $5.3 billion up 2% from the fourth quarter.
Total operating income for the first quarter was $814 million down 17% from the previous quarter as strong growth in North America was offset by declines in our Eastern Hemisphere business.
As Dave mentioned the first quarter results included a charge of approximately $59 million to primarily reserve from doubtful accounts receivable from the Libyan national oil companies and certain inventory that we believe has been compromised during the unrest.
Now I'll be comparing our first quarter results sequentially to the fourth quarter of 2010 excluding the impact of the Q1 Libya charge.
For North America margins in the first quarter increased from the prior quarter due to stronger activity and improved pricing across most basins.
March activity came in much stronger and margin significantly improved coming out of the winter season assisted by higher capacity and pricing.
Even with relatively stable pricing and activity we're anticipating an increase in North America margins in the second quarter although they could be somewhat restrained by cost inflation.
Now in terms of the segment results.
Completion and Production revenue increased $187 million or 6% while operating income remained flat.
Strong North America and Latin America results were offset by the declines in the Eastern Hemisphere where we saw lower vessel and other activity in the North Sea seasonally lower Completion Tools sales and political unrest and other disruptions in North Africa.
Looking at Completion and Production on a geographic basis North America revenues increased by 16% while operating income grew by 19% due to higher activity in pricing and oil- and liquids-rich shale basins where increased completions intensity continue.
In Latin America Completion and Production revenue and operating income increased 11% and 50% respectively due to increased cementing activity in Colombia higher stimulation activity in Argentina driven by shale work higher well intervention and vessel activity in Mexico.
In Europe/Africa/CIS Completion and Production revenue and operating income decreased 22% and 89% respectively due to lower vessel and other activity as a result of weather-related issues in the North Sea seasonally lower Completion Tool revenue across the region and activity disruptions in Egypt and Libya.
In Middle East/Asia Completion and Production posted sequential decreases in revenue and operating income of 7% and 31% respectively due to project delays in Iraq as Dave mentioned and seasonally lower Completion Tool sales in China.
This was partially offset by stronger Boots &amp; Coots activity particularly in Oman Saudi Arabia and Australia.
Now in our Drilling and Evaluation division revenue and operating income declined primarily as a result of seasonally lower direct sales for Wireline and Landmark Software delayed drilling activity in Iraq and the U.K.
and the shutdown of operations in Libya.
This lower activity was partially offset by improved North America results.
In North America Drilling and Evaluations revenue increased 7% as most of our product service lines continue to benefit from increased horizontal rig count which grew approximately 4% from the fourth quarter.
This has favored our well construction technologies and we expect this underlying trend will continue.
Drilling and Evaluation's Latin America revenue and operating income declined 3% and 26% respectively due to the typical slowdown in Landmark revenues across the region offsetting higher shale activity in Argentina and Mexico and increased Fluids business in Brazil.
In the Europe/Africa/CIS region Drilling and Evaluation revenue and operating income were down 7% and 38% respectively due to weather-related seasonality in the North Sea and Russia and activity disruptions in North Africa which were partially offset by higher offshore drilling activity in Angola and East Africa.
Drilling and Evaluation's Middle East/Asia revenue and operating income were down 12% and 56% respectively from seasonal declines from Landmark Software and direct sales in China and costs incurred from delayed project start-ups in Iraq.
Now I'll address some additional financial items.
As we discussed in our fourth quarter call we're making some additional investments in our business model throughout 2011 to lower our service delivery costs in North America and reposition our supply chain manufacturing and technology infrastructure to support our projected international growth.
These investments which we're including in Corporate and Other impacted our results by approximately $0.01 per share in the first quarter.
We slowed down these activities as we experienced significant declines in our Eastern Hemisphere operations.
Over the coming quarters we plan to continue to separately highlight these investments for you and we currently expect the impact to be $0.01 to $0.02 per share in the second quarter.
And outside of these investments we expect our Corporate and Other expenses to be in the range of $60 million the $65 million per quarter for the rest of the year.
Our first quarter 2011 effective tax rate was favorably impacted by a tax election we made with respect to the foreign subsidiary that allowed us to recognize some additional foreign tax credits.
We expect the effective tax rate for the balance of the year to be between 32% to 33%.
And finally a year ago this week the industry experienced one of its biggest operational and environmental challenges with the accident in the Gulf of Mexico.
While more than 100 crew members survived it's with great sadness that 11 lives were tragically lost.
Out of this tragedy however have come unprecedented changes in establishing improved best practices particularly when it comes to safety and the approach to sustainability.
Along with all the changes in industry practices there are also many moving parts on the legal front.
Over the next several weeks we expect a number of claims counterclaims and lawsuits to be filed among all parties involved in the well alleging ordinary and gross negligence against each other in order to preserve their options in the ongoing litigation.
Given the current and impending legal challenges related to the incident we'll not entertain further questions regarding these issues on this call.
Tim? Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
As Dave mentioned we've been very pleased with the series of contract awards this quarter which underpin our thematic growth areas.
Internationally we're seeing strong trends in the development of complex higher-temperature and higher-pressure reservoirs.
And we saw success in penetrating key deepwater basins with our High Pressure/High Temperature technologies and key wins with Chevron Thailand and Statoil in Norway.
We've invested in the development of the broadest portfolio of High Pressure/High Temperature technology in the industry allowing us to execute complex wells in the harshest offshore environment and of course to strengthen our position in these markets.
Since the beginning of 2010 we won approximately 70% of all HP/HT services that have been tended in the North Sea.
In addition we are pleased to have been selected for the provision of a wide range of services in the Malay Basin including directional drilling logging-while-drilling cementing fluids and testing and completion services.
The Malay Basin incidentally has the highest temperatures amongst offshore basins and this project pushes existing technology limits with requirements exceeding 450 degrees Fahrenheit.
Integration of our services has been an important differentiator for us in driving market penetration in support of our key growth themes.
We have supported this with technology investment in highly efficient workflows under our Digital Asset initiative and they're providing compelling value propositions to our customers.
We recently announced the contract award for integrated drilling and well services in Norway for Fast Track development projects on up to three offshore rigs that are designed to reduce time from plan to production in half.
This together with the Shell Majnoon and Exxon drilling package contracts awarded in Iraq provide growing evidence of our customers' interest in our ability to integrate drilling and completions workflows to provide efficiencies for their projects.
We envisioned that these types of contracts will continue to grow faster than our discrete business portfolio.
Upcoming projects for Apache and Argentina and PEMEX on the Mexico side of the Eagle Ford play will also largely be delivered through our packaged and integrated services model.
Contract models are evolving from fixed price contracting arrangements to models that include performance-based and various other risk-reward mechanisms which are quite attractive to us.
The integrated and packaged services model has grown significantly for us over the last two years and our project management team is today managing over 100 strings globally.
Dave? Thanks Tim.
Just to summarize the call going forward I feel even more confident about the prospects of our North America business in 2011 and beyond.
We believe there is room for upside in both revenue and margins as we respond to the continued increases in service intensity.
And while our Eastern Hemisphere margins were adversely impacted in the first quarter we expect recovery in the second quarter and as activity accelerates in the second half of the year expect margins to return to 2010 levels.
And finally we are gaining momentum in targeted growth areas as evidenced by us winning several large key contracts.
So with that let's open it up for questions and we'll go from there.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from David Anderson with JPMorgan.
Thanks.
Dave quick question about your margins going forward really on the D&amp;E side seems to be one of the keys to earnings growth for Halliburton kind of 12 and 13 is getting the D&amp;E international margins up higher.
Just taking a -- stepping back I guess from the issues we've seen this past quarter can you talk about whether you see some of the drivers to maturely improve these? And when do you see them kind of eclipsing the 20% mark? Dave this is Tim.
I think a couple of points there.
I mean clearly D&amp;E was impacted quite significantly by the unrest in North Africa important market for us.
And as you know we've been gearing up quite significantly in Iraq for our drilling packages there also.
And the sort of delays that Dave referred to on the call with respect to the start-up of those projects because of delays in clearing sites and getting the civils completed were also quite impactful to us too.
So I think number one obviously then is the restoration of some of those activities around getting back to normality for some of those projects.
Clearly we're going to see a significant improvement in Saudi in the coming couple of quarters.
We're going to see a significant impact to the Saudi activity offshore.
Manifa is a significant project for us.
And as you well know the service intensity in Saudi in their offshore and onshore projects is quite high.
So the combination of that plus the mobilization for a number of the project wins which we have made I think are all a contributing factors towards getting back onto a stronger trajectory for D&amp;E margins in the second half of the year.
Is that partly also a function of where we are in the cycle? I guess would you expect the D&amp;E -- because I know it's in kind of the '06 '08 -- is when you really saw the D&amp;E margins pickup.
So is that sort of a function of the cycle as you kind of get more on to the exploration side as well? Yes most definitely.
I think as exploration activities starts -- and we're clearly going to see a significant increase in exploration during the front end of this cycle.
That's always very helpful to D&amp;E margins.
I guess on a related note curious about what you're hearing out there on offshore development activity.
Would you expect that to start picking up over the next 12 months? And the discussions you have with operators are they talking about moving projects forward? Is there kind of a greater sense of urgency out there right now kind of oil prices and potential supply disruptions? I think in general I would say that there is an increasing confidence.
Psychology of the market as you well know is really important.
And this does create a sense of confidence in terms of the underlying commodity price.
So I would say just generally yes there is a stronger sense of wanting to move ahead confidently.
However we also have to say that I don't think it's actually been seen yet in terms of actually increasing overall activity or putting incremental rigs to work.
But in general to answer the first part of your question clearly we're pretty enthusiastic about offshore activity in general in the second half of this year.
Our next question comes from Doug Becker with Bank of America.
Thanks.
Dave you mentioned that international pricing is still highly competitive in most markets.
Does this mean that we're still seeing pockets of weakness? And what would have to change to change your expectation about the pace of the international recovery? Well I think you got to look at it sort of two ways.
One I think we clearly see the volume increases coming at us because of the activity increases and that will absorb the overcapacity out there.
And I really wouldn't say that there's pockets on a geographic basis of sort of price competition.
I would just say on any large tender today there's plenty of competition and significant price concessions being given.
That tends in my experience to go away as capacity gets absorbed and people start to focus more on margins and returns and less on getting the original contract in hand.
And I think right now we're still in sort of the competitive phase of this but we see sufficient volume coming at the end of this year and into next year that hopefully will absorb that capacity.
And just a quick follow up man.
In terms of -- when you think about capacity utilization how do you think about that? Should we be looking at rig count or is there a better way to be measuring that? No I think rig count is probably the best surrogate especially if it's a deepwater offshore rig and then you sort of apply your service intensity multiple to that.
And I think you can make a pretty good estimate of how fast industry -- spare industry capacity in oil services can get soaked up.
Our next question comes from Stephen Gengaro with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Two related questions: one on the CapEx side.
Are there any changes to your plans? And how is sort of the roll out of the equipment in North America are proceeding? And along those lines how should we think about North America pricing as we kind of go forward over the next several quarters? Stephen on the CapEx side I think we're still on our plan.
You should expect I think 2011 CapEx to be probably close to about $3 billion.
That's sort of where we've been aiming.
Again most of that CapEx or at least a higher majority of it will be North America as we're rolling out our pressure-pumping capacity.
This year we have got a number of infrastructure projects going on around the world as well that will be influencing that number.
In terms of capacity rollout we're on schedule.
I mean I think that you saw a little bit of that influencing our March results and why they came in so strong.
And we continue to see that CapEx rolling out systematically as the year progresses.
It's contracted.
We know where it's going to go and work and we're staying the course as we speak.
Your second question I think that -- our general view because that capacity is basically being fully absorbed we saw in the quarter continued increase in service intensity we saw increases in the amount of horsepower required per job and we saw an increase in the amount of 24 hour operations that tells you that the environment is still right to continue to move pricing.
And so we are continuing to do that particularly with regard to making sure that we're more than covering cost inflation that's also pushing against us.
And so we still believe that we can continue to move margins forward as the year progresses in North America.
Our next question comes from Dan Boyd with Goldman Sachs.
I'd like to follow up on that last comment.
In looking at North America pressure-pumping intensity versus overall service intensity clearly up nicely in the quarter.
But can you talk about how much of that sort of revenue growth came from the pressure-pumping intensity side of it than versus the just overall increase in service intensity from some of that -- the other value-added services that you mentioned in the press release during the conference call? Yes.
I think just a quick comment on pressure pumping first.
We during the course of the quarter utilization levels actually surpassed those at 2008 which I think is another interesting data point for you.
But to answer your question fully I think we're seeing it across-the-board whether or not it's pressure pumping drilling and evaluation or completions activity or others for that matter.
It's an across-the-board phenomenon.
And I think as I've referred to in my kind of prepared comments this sort of concept of integration is something that is working very positively for us.
We believe it is a differentiator for us and it gives us the ability to provide a platform in which we can essentially bring everything along in that portfolio at a fairly sort of even level and benefit all elements of the company equally.
That makes sense.
Can you comment or give us a little more detail on the strategic placement of frac stages that you highlight in the press release? Just how meaningful is that to the business? Where are you in evolution of that? And I assume that's something that is more unique to the integrated providers like yourself? I think that clearly as Dave referred to we're seeing a significant shift in the way in which the industry is evolving towards both the oily and liquids-rich activity.
And there are significant differences in terms of the way in which we complete those wells relative to dry gas wells.
And so what you're seeing is an increased degree of complexity and frankly an underlying commodity price which allows you to drill longer laterals more stages and complex completions than we've seen here too.
And that's driving the service intensity change of sort of 1.4 to 1.8 relative to dry gas that Dave referenced in his call.
Our next question comes from Ole Slorer with Morgan Stanley.
Thank you very much.
On the seasonality and weather number highlighted at $110 million how much of that was domestic versus international? Ole none of it was domestic.
It was all international.
As I said we had a slight disruption to our U.S.
operations due to weather mainly in the Rockies the Mid-Con and the Bakken that caused a slight decrease to the margins and revenue stream with respect to Q1.
But the amounts we highlighted were totally Eastern Hemisphere.
So if we add all that up the $110 million $105 million and $20 million that's $235 million to the $2.3 billion of sales internationally.
So that just suggests about a 10% margin effect? Yes.
That's about right Ole.
And you did 9.4% margin internationally.
So does that suggest that in a normal environment and today's pricing -- I mean normal environment we can all scratch our heads and ask what that is of course.
But does that mean that we're looking at an underlying run rate really in the high-teens when the role settles down again with no further pricing improvements? I don't know.
I haven't said here we're trying to do the math but I don't know that they would work out that perfectly.
I mean clearly there's a pricing impact that's continued to impact margins overall.
As Dave indicated pricing continues to be fairly competitive.
And as contracts start we're still having the influence of that -- of the negative pricing over the last year or so that's still creeping into the margins.
So I don't think it will work out that perfect.
But clearly some of these things have an impact on margins strictly because of your fixed cost level that you had to incur to maintain operations even if the weather shuts things down.
Yes but it does suggest that the underlying international activity or profitability level is quite maybe significantly better than what these numbers suggest.
Yes I think Ole.
That's why we indicated we were confident that margins will start to increase next quarter and head back to where they were last year.
And then you've got to factor in sort of where the pricing competition evolved the balance of the year.
So as Mark said I don't think it's a perfect calculation as you laid it out but the trend would certainly be towards swinging it back to last year's margins if not a little higher.
And how do you think about Dave allocation of capital-constrained equipment whether it's directional drilling rotary steerable.
I mean I'm sure you have a whole bunch of tools that you consider where to send around the world when you're making these kind of returns in North America.
I'm a little baffled that international pricing is as competitive when you can make these outstanding returns in North America and the market that arguably is becoming a lot more visible and transparent everyday with the order lag.
How do you think about that? Ole I think that argument would presuppose that all equipment is created equal for all applications and that's really not the case.
What we use how we use it and essentially the orientation of businesses in North America tend to be quite different than in the international market.
As you know in the international markets they tend to be much more Drilling-and-Evaluation-led.
The North America markets tend to be more production-and-completion-led.
And so I think that's probably one of the underlying reasons why you don't see the sort of complete freedom of movement of assets around the globe because they're not always completely suitable in those applications.
Of course the other thing I'd like to say Ole is we were hurt clearly by the issues in North Africa.
We can't get those assets out of Libya right now that's part of the issue.
So you've got assets that are sitting there that no service company can actually get access to.
As a closing comment in general the international markets tend to use a higher service intensity in international markets even on land rigs intensity much higher.
Use Saudi as an example Kuwait as an example.
It's much more comparable in terms of the delivery with something that we might utilize in the Gulf of Mexico than it is onshore in U.S.
Our next question comes from Bill Herbert with Simmons &amp; Company.
Thanks.
Mark back to North America and pricing and margins for a second here.
You talked about the fact that there isn't a whole lot of difficulty absorbing the incremental frac capacity that's being brought online.
As pricing continues to move higher you're going to be offset by oil service cost of goods sold inflation.
And my question is how does that distill into a view on incremental margins.
And last year for the first three quarters while you were getting pricing activity and service intensity uplift incrementals for C&amp;P we're between 45% and 56% quarter on quarter.
We had a drop in the Q4 28% because of I would assume in part due to the drop in your Gulf of Mexico work.
And then we had again relatively subdued incrementals in Q1 of 31% 32%.
So how should we think about incrementals going forward? Well we're not going to give you any specific guidance for different reasons Bill.
Yes.
I appreciate that.
But I think that you should pick up from our comments that we do remain confident that we think that the incrementals will continue to be good that it will continue to increase.
We feel we've kind of hit the bottom on the Gulf of Mexico obviously with the increased permits while it takes some time we still expect that as the year progresses the Gulf of Mexico will start getting back to work and that comes at a nice consistent margin that historically has been quite good.
So that will add to the mix favorably.
And then when we look at our margins particularly in March where you had a month that was not influenced by weather with stronger activity and the rig count it just says we do expect a bump in our margins in Q2.
And as we look out across the year there's no reason in our view today to expect that that will not continue to sort of move up as the year progresses.
Now it's not going to be at the same pace as we have last year that's certainly the case but there is incremental opportunity if you continue to improve our margins.
And of course the second thing part of the strategic initiatives that we're working on that we highlighted at our Analyst Day last year is continuing to work hard on addressing our cost structure as well so that we can continue to be the lowest cost service provider out there.
Our next question comes from Roger Read with Morgan Keegan.
Just wanted to follow up on the issues weighing on the international margins.
As you kind of look by region obviously Manifa is going to kick off here.
You've got the trouble in North Africa.
But maybe a little more detail on Latin America and the Asian markets if you could.
Well first of all just on Manifa obviously Manifa will be a benefit.
But bear in mind that those rigs will come in sort of rapidly over the balance of this year.
So we will not see a significant one-time impact of that.
It will change as we go through the course of the year.
You mentioned Latin America.
Clearly Brazil continues to be a positive growth environment for us.
Argentina we've referenced a couple of times particularly as it relates to unconventionals and the growing benefits there particularly as our customers derive benefit from of course [ph] new gas pricing which is providing them some confidence to do additional work and invest incrementally.
Andean countries in particular also are showing some positive signs.
Mexico the brightest spot there I think revolves around two things for us.
Number one is the southern development of the Eagle Ford both in terms of the dry gas leg and also the oily leg for PEMEX in Northern Mexico which is clearly a positive for them and us.
And the very good progress that we're making with our Remolino lab in Chicontepec which if you'll recall is PEMEX's focus on really adding a greater degree of G&amp;G capability and underlying science to the development of that reservoir.
And kind of an unrelated follow up in North America on the cost inflation side can you kind of give us an idea of what the bigger issues there are other than the obvious one of labor? Well clearly labor yes that most definitely is tight.
That is a significant component of all of our -- in fact the largest single component of our cost structure.
And clearly all elements of inflation are kicking in for whatever they maybe whether they're on proppants whether they're on transportation you name it.
There's.
.
.
Price has gone [ph] up quite dramatically so...
Inflationary pressures are there across-the-board and we're working had to make sure that we contain them.
And as Mark said in terms of making sure that we're a fit into delivery of services and also recovering those inflationary factors through price increases.
Our next question comes from Bill Sanchez with Howard Weil.
There's been a lot of conversations related to the margins in the Eastern Hemisphere and with the progression maybe there.
I was just curious as we look more from a top line perspective 2010 versus 2009 Eastern Hemisphere revenues were essentially flat.
Can you talk about what kind of growth we're expecting on the top line Eastern Hemisphere maybe 2011 versus 2010 as you guys see it right now given what's going on in North Africa? Again I don't think that we want to give specific guidance as to what we think will be happening.
We do -- as we said several times we think activity is coming.
We've seen that.
We've seen our customers’ budgets as you have increased significantly.
We see a significant number of offshore rigs coming into the market.
So areas like the North Sea West Africa we expect as the year progresses will begin to pick up.
Tim mentioned Brazil just a second ago.
I think that the issue that we're seeing right now and part of the reason why you see the impact of just sort of year-over-year flat revenues flat top line growth is the impact of pricing.
That pricing has remained competitive and that influence continues to mask some of the other activity-related increases that we've experienced and we believe would be coming.
And so we think that as Dave mentioned activity is coming and it's going to pick up as the year progresses.
And that will have a pull activity-led sort of margin pull for us in the early part of the year.
And we're hopeful that as capacity utilization increases that the market sentiment will change that will allow us to begin to think differently about pricing as we tender for contracts later in the year between us and our competitors which will probably have more of an influence in 2012.
But hopefully we'll get some of that in late part of this year.
Sure.
The project delays that were noted in Iraq of roughly $20 million do you all believe that specifically just a function of your specific customers or was that something that you think everyone in country likely experienced? Yes.
I think that if you look at -- if you had in sort of a brownfield drilling site you have your infrastructure in place and you probably are not as likely to have been delayed.
And we didn't see delays for instance in a lot of our work-over activities that we were doing for various companies.
But when you go to more of the greenfield opportunities one of the things our customers are experiencing is preparing pad sites and typically that is out of scope of our contract.
And when they're developing the roads too and these drilling sites what they're finding is lots of unexploded ordinance resulting from the Iraq-Iran war and various wars that have been in there and it's taking them substantially longer to get these drilling sites ready for us to mobilize too.
And so I think -- I would think of it more in terms of its brownfield versus greenfield.
It's the greenfield projects that are tending to get pushed back a bit because of these site development issues.
Our next question comes from Kurt Hallead with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> I just wanted to -- I know you've mentioned international margin on a number of different fronts and just for clarity point I just wanted to make sure I understand it that on the international margin for 2011 -- on the year if you look at 2011 versus 2010 are you looking at the same margin for the full year or are you guys thinking more on the second third and fourth quarter that '11 would look like 2010? I just wanted to get some clarification on that please.
Thanks.
Yes.
I think we're looking at the obviously going forward here Kurt.
I think clearly the first quarter has been a very challenging quarter.
And I don't think that we would expect at this stage to sort of get that one to make up.
So I think you're looking at it correctly by looking forward.
LLC</strong> Second okay all right.
And then just a follow up here on the frac capacity.
What do you think is coming into the market here in 2011? And are you still seeing interests from your customers and on term contracts? Those term contracts 12 months 24 months 36 months have there been any change in the length that you're customers are trying to contract out this frac capacity? Essentially we could contract most of our capacity probably about any terms we wanted to dictate at this point in time.
But typically we are keeping that relatively short.
We are not doing essentially fixed price contracts we're doing performance-based contracts which -- and our customers to reach certain levels of productivity or we have the right to move that spread on to someone else.
And we think that's the best way in this.
Basically there's market that doesn't have enough capacity to handle everything that's there.
So we're trying to preserve our ability to be opportunistic but make sure that as every piece of equipment comes out of the manufacturing plant we have that it has a home to go to on day one.
I think in terms of the overall estimates or overall capacity coming to market our estimates haven't really changed.
I think we still think that probably in the 3 million 3.5 million-horsepower is probably what's coming into the market this year.
Our next question comes from Jim Crandell with Dahlman Rose.
LLC</strong> I want to ask another question on pricing internationally.
It seems to me that the anecdotal stories about pricing not just that the commodity end but what have heretofore been the very largest highest margin job has gotten extremely competitive out there.
And I think Dave you've voiced optimism that when activity comes it will all go away or at least it will improve.
But is it true in your opinion that pricing conditions are worse at this time than you might see at this point in other cycles? And do you think it may not all go away just due to various company strategies that exist out there? Jim this is Tim.
I would say in general yes I think things are more competitive today than we've seen them in the last couple of years certainly.
I mean typically when we think about pricing and when you think about tightening pricing you really think about changing trajectory of the market.
And I think we would agree that we haven't seen a significant trajectory change in the market.
I think what we're starting to see now are some significant signs of trajectory change.
Our IOC customers and independent customers are getting more confident about their spend.
And in particular the NOC customers -- and you see that obviously Saudi Aramco would be a good example KOC [Kuwait Oil Company] is another example.
And also in the UAE we're starting to see some significant changes in terms of NOC spending patterns.
They don't always typically follow the natural progression of the commodity prices.
But as they kick in you're going to see a change in trajectory of the market.
We're going to therefore see a tightening of supply.
And I think that to Dave's point as we get towards the end of this year and into 2012 we will see more stability in the pricing markets.
Our next question comes from Brad Handler with Crédit Suisse.
Could I ask you -- let's see what's left here.
Maybe Tim you could come back to your comment about your receptiveness to performance-based and the risk-reward mechanisms and your enthusiasm about that? Are you now driving -- in tenders are you now driving offerings to that regard or rather are you generally being pulled into offering that sort of thing? Talk to us a little bit about that please.
No I think we're very much driving towards incentive-based contacts.
I think they provide good value for us.
And I think that we have invested as -- you know Brad quite a bit over the course of the last couple of years in really developing efficient workflows which can stitch together all the key elements of our operation the key to our customers value proposition.
They're not interested in just a collection of services at the well site they want to see real value.
And I think that we're delivering that value proposition and it's making it a much easier sell for us to engage them in discussions around incentive contracting.
And so I do expect that to continue over the course of the next year or two.
To what extent are these about the timing efficiency of well construction versus say productivity or really production-related...
Yes I think today we're very much focused on time-based efficiencies I would call them both -- primarily in the well-construction phase.
But I definitely think that over time we have the potential to evolve those to production-based efficiencies too.
All right.
Before we close we'd like to announce that our Q2 2011 Earnings Call will be held on Monday July 18 at 9 a.m.
Eastern 8 a.m.
Central.
Sean let's close out the call.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This does conclude the conference.
You may now disconnect.
Everyone have a good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Halliburton's Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host today Christian Garcia Senior Vice President Investor Relations.
Please begin.
Good morning and welcome to the Halliburton's Second Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
Today's call is being webcast and a replay will be available on Halliburton's website for 7 days.
The press release announcing the second quarter results is available on the Halliburton website.
Joining me today are Dave Lesar CEO; Mark McCollum CFO; and Tim Probert President Strategy and Corporate Development.
I would like to remind our audience that some of today's comments may include forward-looking statements reflecting Halliburton's views about future events and their potential impact on performance.
These matters involve risks and uncertainties that could impact operations and financial results and cause our actual results to differ from our forward-looking statements.
These risks are discussed in Halliburton's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2010 Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31 2011 and recent current reports on Form 8-K.
Our comments include non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in the press release announcing the second quarter results which can be found on our website.
Dave? Thank you Christian and good morning everyone.
I'm very pleased with the overall performance of our business in the second quarter.
Total revenues of $5.9 billion which was a new company record represents 12% growth sequentially.
Our operating income grew 43% sequentially with our North American and international businesses both registering double-digit growth rates.
North America continued to experience strong margin growth while our international business saw a modest seasonal recovery from the first quarter.
Against prior year revenue and operating income grew 35% and 52% respectively with operating income more than doubling in North America.
International revenue surged 9% against the rig count growth of 5% while operating income declined from prior year level due to the disruptions caused by the turmoil in North Africa and international pricing deterioration.
We are now seeing evidence that the international pricing is stabilizing.
We believe that steady volume increases should be a precursor for overall international pricing to improve toward the end of the year.
We also believe that continued execution of our strategies will lead to margin expansion in both our North America and international businesses and provide us with continued overall strong performance for the remainder of 2011 and beyond.
Let me now discuss our operating results in more detail starting with North America.
North America experienced sequential revenue and operating income growth of 16% and 36% in the second quarter compared to a U.S.
rig count growth of just 6%.
We achieved these results despite weather-related issues in the Bakken and high decrementals we get from the Canadian spring breakup.
Sequential incremental operating margin for the quarter was 57% which is the highest level since the start of the North American recovery in the third quarter of 2009.
More importantly for the first time in many years incremental margins were consistent between our C&amp;P and D&amp;E divisions evidence of the continued adoption of our integrated services offerings and that all of our well construction-related PSLs are benefiting from this strong market.
Overall growth in the demand for our services has outpaced capacity additions and we expect this imbalance to continue going forward.
We have always been confident in the strength of this North American cycle even when others have not been and our results this quarter validate our bullish view of the market.
The continued shift to oil and liquids-rich activities has propelled sustained volume growth in our U.S.
land business.
Even gas drilling which was down only 2% in the quarter remained relatively resilient spurred by the increased demand for power generation due to substitution of natural gas for coal and harsh summer temperatures in various regions.
Last year we discussed the strategy of staying with our dry gas basin customers and not moving equipment elsewhere and to work with them to find a business model that allowed both of us to achieve our financial goals by driving project efficiencies in the high-quality portions of their gas portfolios.
While we did sacrifice some margin opportunities at that time and some of you were critical of that I believe the strategy is starting to pay off.
Our customers are seeing the returns they need and we are now seeing only a small difference in operating margin between the gas plays and our liquids-rich shale plays.
Despite the success we remain a bit cautious on natural gas drilling for the rest of the year.
We continue to believe however that any further curtailment would be outweighed by continued expansion in liquids activity.
The changing landscape in North America and the corresponding increase in service intensity are playing to our strengths.
Operators are drilling longer laterals that require more complex completions to maximize production.
In this regard we are pleased to announce that we have introduced a great new product for our customers called RapidFrac.
We believe RapidFrac is now the best sliding sleeve completion system in the market for horizontal wellbores.
RapidFrac technology allows for accurate and efficient stimulation but most importantly gives our customers enhanced reservoir contact.
RapidFrac is being introduced first in the Bakken with outstanding results.
One operator for instance experienced a 75% increase in production with a 50% reduction in pumping time compared to an offset well using traditional plug and perforate design.
This customer is now looking at switching all of their completion work to using RapidFrac.
In addition to this technology we continue to develop innovations that improve reservoir connectivity to enhance production and Tim will talk about these in a few minutes.
We believe the commercialization of these innovative offerings will continue to enable us to sustain our North America leadership position.
Activity in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico is continuing to recover due to the resumption of the issuance of permits that took place earlier this year.
Current approved permits are heavily weighted towards larger operators which have traditionally been our core customers.
We experienced strong incrementals in the second quarter and are currently delivering drilling and completion services at a market share level that is higher than our historical Gulf activity including providing cementing services for 8 of the 18 new well permits.
While we are pleased with the Gulf of Mexico improvement in the second quarter the pace of permit issuance has slowed again and the fact that some of the initially permitted wells are nearing completion creates a risk that the Gulf recovery could slow or stall in the second half of 2011.
As a result we don't expect to generate the same level of incrementals from the Gulf of Mexico in the third quarter.
Through 2011 we expect that land activity will remain robust as operators continue to pursue an increase in activity for the liquids portion of their asset portfolios.
We believe that we will continue to generate margin expansion but it will be slowed down by general cost inflation particularly for labor chemicals and profits.
Now let me talk about our international business for a few minutes.
Latin America posted good sequential revenue growth from increased activity across most of the region.
But margins were impacted by some unusual costs in Argentina and Colombia.
Brazil continues to be a stellar performer in the region with a 21% sequential revenue growth from the first quarter with improving margins.
Due to the rapid growth in our Brazil business over the last several years we expect Brazil operations should soon surpass Mexico as our largest operation in Latin America.
We continue to strengthen our presence in the country and are very pleased with our role in assisting our customers in unlocking the value of their deepwater assets.
Mexico had a good quarter with revenues growing 12% sequentially and there are emerging signs that prospects in the country may be improving.
But at this point it is still too early to say whether this performance will be sustainable.
Increased interest from our customer to work on their offshore fields and continuing work on the shale plays in North Mexico are contributing to a more positive view of this market over time.
Now let's turn to the Eastern Hemisphere.
I am actually quite pleased with where we are in the Eastern Hemisphere.
We experienced a modest recovery in our Eastern Hemisphere business as the seasonal rebound from harsh weather conditions in Russia North Sea and Australia offset disruptions in some markets.
We have been growing our Eastern Hemisphere revenue faster than the market and our revenue per rate has increased.
We currently have 5 specific areas that are pulling our Eastern Hemisphere margins down.
Other than these areas our margins would be where we would all expect them to be at this point in their recovery.
Let me talk about these 5 areas.
First is Libya.
We are completely shut down in Libya but we have maintained our local employee base and the related ongoing expenses all subject to applicable law pending the outcome of the turmoil.
Iraq continues to weigh on our near-term results.
As we mentioned in the first quarter our work in Iraq has shifted from workover to new drilling but rig mobilization delays and our project start-ups have led to significant underabsorption of our fixed costs.
We continue to believe that these drilling projects will commence later in the third quarter when we expect to have 7 rigs running compared to 0 today.
Currently we believe that we will return to profitability by the fourth quarter when the performance of these contracts should be in full swing.
Even though these contract delays have impacted our short-term results they have not dampened our enthusiasm for Iraq.
We believe that Iraq will be one of the fastest-growing countries internationally in the coming years and that we will benefit significantly as a result of a first-mover strategy.
In Sub-Saharan Africa we have been successful at winning contracts in both east and west Africa in the past several years.
In many cases these contracts have been in countries new to Halliburton such as Uganda Tanzania and Mozambique where I've included the introduction of some of our Drilling and Evaluation product lines to some of our existing countries of operation.
As you know it is expensive to set up new drilling logging or fluid operations.
These new deployments are requiring heavy investment in new facilities in mobilization of equipment and people and are negatively impacting our Eastern Hemisphere margins while these mobilizations are being implemented.
However we believe these new areas of work should position us for many years of profitable operations going forward.
Our U.K.
North Sea operations are suffering from a lack of customer drilling commitment to that market because of U.K.
tax reform policies.
We have a large fixed cost structure to our operation in the U.K.
and business is not currently at a level that will absorb these costs.
We are now in the process of redeploying equipment and people to other parts of the Eastern Hemisphere.
And finally Algeria we continue to have administrative procedures relating to contract renewals and new awards that are unpredictable and have impacted our level of profitability there.
While the timing is uncertain we expect the issues in Algeria to be resolved allowing this market to recover.
As such we have made cost structure adjustments primarily in our Europe/Africa/CIS region resulting in employee separation costs that impacted our results by $0.01 in the second quarter.
In total the issues related to these 5 areas had an impact of approximately 400 basis points on our Eastern Hemisphere margins.
We are going to stay the course in these markets as I believe the future upside is well worth it despite the current downside pressure it puts on the margins.
There have also been numerous discussions in the investment community regarding international pricing.
Our pricing strategy has supported our overall objective of gaining share in certain deepwater markets during the downturn.
We won contracts in key geographies by deploying fit-for-purpose technologies and leveraging our customers' need to have multiple providers for their projects.
Specifically we are currently mobilizing PSLs for 31 new projects 18 of which are in our Drilling and Evaluation division.
Many of these projects are in Sub-Saharan Africa as I mentioned earlier.
Outside of key deepwater markets our pricing behavior is consistent with that of our peers and we believe that any suggestion that we have been more aggressive is inaccurate and misleading.
For any bid outcome that we could be accused of having an aggressive price I can give you one from each of our major competitors.
So as the cycle enters a new phase we believe that the contracts we have won will provide us with the opportunity to deploy new technologies and process efficiencies that create value for our customers and incremental margins for us.
We see this strategy for deploying new technologies already working.
For example in a recent contract in Norway for drilling fluids we replaced standard mod with a proprietary water-based system that provides the whole stability our customer was seeking providing incremental value for the customer and an uplift in margins from single to double digits for us.
In the Middle East fluid sampling and magnetic resonance imaging tools were added to a wireline contract to assist our customer with their formation evaluation challenges.
The expanded scope of this contract led to improved production for our customer that provided us with a 25% increase in contract revenues and improving margins.
I could mention many more cases like this where we are seeing opportunities to broaden the scope of the services we provide our customers.
By introducing these new technologies we help improve our customers' effectiveness while at the same time favorably impacting revenue and margins.
The pricing environment in the international markets has been challenging.
However we are now seeing the emergence of conditions that will enable leading-edge pricing to improve.
Continued strong growth in certain geographies like Brazil Colombia and Norway and volume increases in the Middle East and in deepwater regions are creating an inflection point.
We believe this will serve to assist in the tightening of capacity and will lead to improved pricing by the end of the year.
How much improvement and how quickly it comes will depend in large part upon commodity price behavior and the pace of the global economic recovery.
So in the second half of the year we expect a gradual progression of our international margins as activity improves.
We expect our international margin expansion to continue into 2012 as leading-edge pricing improves and new technologies are introduced.
Overall we believe that what we are seeing in North America plus the continued international recovery will lead to even a more favorable earnings picture as we go through 2011 and beyond.
The execution of our strategies is providing us with momentum for the second half of the year.
By securing key contract wins deploying new technologies and establishing bases in new frontier markets for Halliburton we believe we are in a unique position to continue to outperform as the industry enters the next phase of the cycle.
I'll let Mark give some more details now.
Thanks Dave and good morning everyone.
Let me provide you with our second quarter financial highlights.
Our revenue in the second quarter was $5.9 billion up 12% from the first quarter.
Total operating income for the second quarter was $1.2 billion up 43% from the previous quarter.
Our results in the second quarter included approximately $11 million in employee separation costs primarily related to our Europe/Africa/CIS region.
Our first quarter results included a charge of approximately $59 million to reserve for certain receivables and inventory in Libya.
I'll be comparing our second quarter results sequentially to the first quarter excluding both the second quarter restructuring charge and the first quarter Libya charge.
For North America we saw our incrementals accelerate in the second quarter as we continued to benefit from the shift to oil and liquids-rich reservoirs.
The combination of the greater service intensity of these basins coupled with higher activity levels from capacity additions and rig count increases have resulted in better fixed cost absorption.
We were also able to capture sufficient pricing to offset cost inflation.
We believe that we are going to continue to see continued margin expansion in the third quarter but we expect incrementals will be less than what we experienced in the second quarter due to both cost inflation and lower incrementals in the Gulf of Mexico.
For international we believe that margins will gradually improve from second quarter levels due to increased activity with margin improvement to be weighted toward the latter part of the year.
In terms of our segment results Completion and Production revenue increased $446 million or 14% while operating income grew by 33%.
The sequential incremental operating margin for the division was a healthy 51% driven primarily by higher activity in North America.
Looking at Completion and Production on a geographic basis North America revenue increased by 17% while operating income grew by 35% due primarily to higher activity and capacity additions across most U.S.
land basins especially in the oil and liquids-rich basins.
Offsetting the strength in the U.S.
land are the impact of the Canadian breakup and the timing of Completion Tools sales for the Gulf of Mexico.
In Latin America Completion and Production revenue increased 12% but operating income fell 19% as higher employee and equipment costs in Argentina and Colombia offset higher production enhancement activity in northern Mexico and increased Completion Tools sales in Brazil.
In our Europe/Africa/CIS region Completion and Production revenue increased 3% and operating income doubled as seasonally higher activity in the North Sea and higher Completion Tools sales across the region offset lower activity in Algeria and the shutdown in Libya.
In Middle East/Asia Completion and Production posted sequential increases in revenue and operating income of 12% and 33% respectively due to increased production enhancement services in Saudi Arabia higher Completion Tools sales in Kuwait and Brunei and a seasonal rebound in Australia.
Additionally the division saw increased stimulation work and higher sand control product sales in Indonesia.
In our Drilling and Evaluation division revenue and operating income increased by 10% and 30% respectively led by gains in both North America and Latin America.
In North America Drilling and Evaluation revenue increased 13% and operating income improved by 44% as most of our product service lines saw pricing improvements in U.S.
land and continue to benefit from the increased horizontal rig count.
Further the division benefited from higher drilling activity in the Gulf of Mexico which was partially offset by the impact of the spring breakup in Canada.
Drilling and Evaluation's Latin America revenue and operating income increased 13% and 30% respectively due to drilling activity increases in Brazil software sales in Argentina and consulting work in Ecuador.
In the Europe/Africa/CIS region Drilling and Evaluation revenue and operating income were up 9% and 27% respectively due to higher drilling activity in the North Sea and Russia and the recovery in Egypt's drilling operations partially offset by rig delays in Angola and the shutdown in Libya.
Drilling and Evaluation's Middle East/Asia revenue was up 4% but operating income remained flat as higher wireline sales and services and software sales in Kuwait and higher direct sales in China fully offset project delays in Iraq and higher repair costs we experienced in Saudi Arabia.
Now I'll address some additional financial items.
We're making considerable progress in our initiative to reinvent our service delivery platform in North America and to reposition our supply chain manufacturing and technology infrastructure to better support our projected international growth.
The investments for these initiatives which are included in Corporate and Other impacted our results by approximately $0.01 per share in the second quarter.
These activities will continue into 2012 and we currently expect the impact of these investments to increase to $0.02 per share in the third quarter.
And finally the effective tax rate for the second quarter came in at 32% which was in line with our guidance.
For the balance of the year we're projecting that our effective tax rate will be closer to 33% given the overall robustness of our North American operations.
Tim? Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
We continue to develop technology innovations designed to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of unconventional resource development.
As Dave mentioned the newly introduced RapidFrac completion system has provided material time savings and production increases primarily because it allows a more surgical approach to stimulating the lateral and also allows us to reduce water usage.
Improving reservoir conductivity is another key objective and has been a focus of ours for some time.
We've introduced a range of conductivity enhancers such as SandWedge and Expedite which provide improved flow powers for hydrocarbons through the fracture resulting in sustained improvement in production.
With some 25 000 treatments worldwide in North America Asia Latin America and the Middle East they're proving their value in a range of operating environments.
Further on the innovation path operators are constantly looking for technologies that maximize their fracture stimulation investment and there's a significant opportunity in building a permanent connection with the maximum amount of reservoir while balancing cost and time to initial production.
Halliburton's new access frac uses a basin-specific design process combined with biodegradable and environmentally friendly chemistry to redirect the fracturing slurry into portions of the reservoir not previously treated.
Trials have demonstrated much improved well productivity in a wider range of applications than even Halliburton's patented proppant pillar distribution technology used by us and others as a result of this greater stimulated reservoir volume.
Now we continue to be very bullish about the global outlook for gas and unconventionals in particular.
Last month the IEA released a special report on natural gas in the global energy mix projecting gas consumption will rise by more than 50% from today and will account for 25% of world energy consumption by 2035.
Importantly they estimate that unconventional gas resources are now equal to those of conventional fields.
Exploration for unconventional resources is underway in many areas outside the U.S.
including Mexico Argentina Australia and Poland where here the government has granted 86 concessions and has attracted broad interest from IOCs and independents.
In our recent integrated services award for Chevron's drilling program in southeastern Poland we'll be providing project management in a wide variety of well construction and stimulation services for this 3-year contract.
Worldwide natural gas development both conventional and unconventional will be an important component of the upcoming international cycle and we believe this secular trend will be a key driver in our future prospects.
Dave? Thank you Tim.
Let me just quickly summarize.
Our contract wins in key Eastern Hemisphere markets should allow us to expand our international margins in 2012 by introducing incremental technology.
Our visibility in North America suggests a prolonged cycle with opportunities to improve our revenue and margins further.
So at this point we believe that these improvements in North America plus the international recovery will lead us to a more favorable earnings picture during the second half of the year and into 2012.
So let's open it up for questions now.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from David Anderson with JPMorgan.
As you start thinking about the strength of the North American markets in 2012 it appears that pressure pumping and other services still are the gating factor in rig count growth.
But how concerned are you now about the kind of the pace of new build rigs out there? We've talked a lot about rig count kind of being restrained 10% to 15%.
But how great a risk is there that rigs all of a sudden become that gating factor perhaps in the second half of '12? Dave this is Tim.
I think that's possible but the one thing that we're seeing is tremendous efficiency gains in terms of the overall drilling process the well construction process if you like.
It's been quite impressive.
I mean we're drilling laterals now up to 10 000 feet or so and the degree of efficiency has I think been quite surprising to all.
So I am frankly less concerned about rig supply today than I probably was 2 or 3 quarters ago.
And then I guess just following up on that North American side.
Obviously a very different market today than we were back in '06 '07 '08.
How different is your strategy now in terms of kind of as you're looking at say pricing increases or perhaps how you're looking at cost or how you're actually adding in capacity? Is that -- how has your thinking evolved over the last time to really kind of in order to keep that kind of margins continuing to go progressively higher? Dave this is Mark.
I think that probably the most marked difference in our strategy this time than last was in the last cycle we probably were more myopically focused on strictly increasing price to maximize margins.
And I think this time around what we're trying to do is to think more holistically about our position in the marketplace to develop a strategy where our pricing reflects value add to our customers not only in the ability to integrate the products and services that we have so that it's -- so that our pricing model is lifting all of our product service lines but also thinking about the returns that our customers are getting from the work that we're doing in each of the basins that they're working.
Dave made a comment about our thinking about the dry gas basins in helping our customers there.
And while I think that the difference in margins that we are receiving today have leveled out between those various basins as we just think about that we're covering our costs certainly and we're getting a little bit more pricing but we're trying to add equipment on a customer-specific basis to address that they -- the work that they're presenting to us.
We're trying to work with them in what I call a very symbiotic way to maximize their value and I think that it's -- this type of environment is lifting all boats.
So we're seeing margin increases.
We're seeing as we look out ahead the number of customers coming forward with even more robust drilling programs extending the relationships that we have with them not only through the end of this year but the end of next year and beyond.
And so at least from our view there's still the ability to add capacity into this market.
There's still a lot of work to be done.
There's still a lot more value to add.
And I think as a result what we'll see is continued not only top line growth but marginal growth as well.
And there's still ability to add pricing as well? Yes.
But I think again we're trying to add price and making sure that we're covering our costs but we're -- it's not all about just adding price for price sake.
Our next question comes from Doug Becker with Bank of America.
I want to touch base on the international margins.
I think in the last call it was mentioned that there was the potential to get to 2010 levels late in the year.
Is that still a realistic expectation given the second quarter results? Doug this is Mark again.
I think that the way we look at trying to reach that margins that we had at the end of last year is still the goal for us.
That's what we're working toward.
Obviously it's going to be very very dependent upon recovery of some of the markets that Dave spoke to the overall general economic recovery and the overall pricing environment but we're still working toward it.
But it's going to be challenging we know that.
And it's going to get -- we need some help from the markets to get there.
So I guess we -- the impact was talked about I guess 400 basis points and certainly Libya and Algeria would seem to have limited visibility in those.
Could those -- I guess what percentage of the Sub-Sahara Africa the fixed cost structure in the U.K.
how much of that 400 basis points would those 2 account for? Doug I don't know that I have that on the top of my head.
We'll have to just kind of think through it.
But obviously it's not a small increment.
I mean those are -- they're smaller markets but they're widespread and -- but I think as you think about Africa the Libya market the Algeria those are all the largest markets in Africa.
They'll definitely continue to be a drag as long as the conflicts there and the political issues persist.
Okay.
And then in the past you've mentioned the number of uncompleted wells or at least your estimate.
Any update to that number? Yes.
I think in the last quarter we said there were about 3 500 wells and that -- we know that that has crept up and probably will continue to incrementally creep up towards the end of the year.
Our next question comes from Kurt Hallead with RBC.
LLC</strong> The question I would have is on the sliding sleeve technology you referenced that there's been a significant increase in efficiency and productivity.
Just wondering what you guys may think that means from an industry standpoint.
Or is that going to lead to too much say equipment-related capacity if the fracture becomes more efficient? And is this a Bakken-specific opportunity? It sounded like it isn't.
So I'm just trying to gauge with the increase in efficiency how this all translates in your mind to a supply-demand balance as we head out into 2012.
Kurt this is Tim.
Yes I mean we're very pleased with the performance of RapidFrac to date and it's really providing some significant improvements in sort of well-to-well times for us and our customers.
And there's no doubt that it allows us to be more efficient in what we do and allows us to optimize the performance of our fleets.
But that's not something that we see spreading to the industry in general.
I think this is something that Halliburton intends to capture for ourselves.
So I don't see it having a broad impact on the industry at large.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then Dave maybe a follow-up for you.
You referenced that the pace and magnitude of pricing improvement internationally will largely depend on some macro factors and I know how close you are to your large international customers.
So what kind of hesitation or are your customers showing any reason to hesitate on their spending plans internationally? Are they getting cold feet or are they moving pretty aggressively forward? I think Kurt a couple things.
One is we're finally I think getting past the reengineering look and the process assurance look that a number of our customers were doing post-Macondo with respect to their offshore development.
I think liquids prices are at a sufficient level that would allow these projects to go forward.
These projects are getting sanctioned.
They're getting final investment decisions in a positive way.
It's really just how quickly the industry can gear up for some of these major projects.
They're coming.
Now whether they'll start toward the back end of this year or into 2012 they are definitely there.
They're definitely coming at us and we should get the benefit of equipment basically being picked up and put to work at that point in time.
So I'm pretty optimistic that that's all going to fall to the service industry's advantage.
Our next question comes from Brad Handler with Crédit Suisse.
Perhaps first to Dave just to come back to your comments on kind of where incremental margins are headed over the next couple quarters in North America.
Perhaps you can parse out just how much the Gulf of Mexico contributed to that to the 57% in the second quarter.
So in other words maybe if we just looked at the U.S.
land business on its own can you share the incrementals there? I don't know that I want to share exactly the incrementals -- Brad this is Mark.
But the Gulf of Mexico incrementals were much higher than the U.S.
land incrementals during the quarter.
But again we're coming off a very very low base.
And so I wouldn't expect that that will continue as activity levels out there.
And of course we highlighted the fact that we are somewhat concerned that the pace of permit approvals have been slowing down quite a bit and if you -- most of these permits were for single wells.
That work's underway.
At some point here those are going to start wrapping up and the question is what's next? And so we need that pace to pick up if we want to continue to expand the Gulf of Mexico operations.
Understood.
All right.
I guess as a follow-up if I stick with the U.S.
land side of the business you mentioned some cost creep impacting kind of the opportunity to raise margins.
I understand that.
But can you comment on the opportunities for volume maybe sort of revenue per rig as you see it over the second half of the year but on a volume side? Yes I think -- this is Dave.
Let me take the first shot at that.
Certainly with the frac equipment being a serious gating issue right now our ability to pull through other services I think was really demonstrated this quarter.
And I think it was easy to overlook one of the comments I made in that our incremental margins on our Drilling and Evaluation business in North America were basically the same as our Completion and Production.
And so I think the pull-through is one.
Adding capacity is certainly something we're doing in all of our product lines in North America.
And obviously we are well past the point where we have absorbed our fixed cost.
So that should also have an ability to increase our margins without any pricing impact.
We also are looking at -- on things like fuel or diesel things like that either going to customer furnished or to a peer pass-through on some of these things.
So I would say there's a lot of moving pieces but all of them added together gives us confidence that we should be able to expand our margins and our absolute operating income.
Our next question comes from Ole Slorer with Morgan Stanley.
Congratulations in taking a significant share of international work in line with what you highlighted at your Capital Markets Day back in the fall.
But could you sort of readdress a little bit where you stand right now on your strategy on market share relative to margin expansion? Yes this is Tim.
I think that as Dave said on this call I mean as we outlined to all of you during our Analyst Day we're very focused on some specific areas one of them being an area we felt that historically that we had underserved as a company for a variety of reasons and that one being deepwater.
And I think that was driven by a number of factors including the availability to provide our customers with some of the technology which they required and we worked hard on that as you know.
And so I think that we've been very pleased with our win rate.
We have gotten ourselves to a position that I think we feel fairly comfortable with with respect to deepwater.
And I think for us now the focus is on execution to make sure that we execute well and we're confident we'll do that.
And I think secondly as Dave mentioned I mean lots of rhetoric around pricing out there in the market but I stand by what Dave said.
For every contract that someone whines about I think I can demonstrate at least 1 or 2 where the offers they may be true with another competitor.
So I think that's just in the noise.
Ole this is Mark.
Let me add to Tim's comments.
You saw obviously we took a restructuring charge in the quarter related to some employee separation costs.
It was primarily focused in the part of the world that Dave highlighted were places where we were struggling a bit with our costs.
Then I think that sort of lends to what Tim said that we are beginning to focus on margins.
We've also been highlighting on a quarterly basis over the last several quarters the initiatives that were underway to -- part of those initiatives are addressing our North American service platform and reducing costs there.
But there's a big chunk of that that's also addressing our supply chain and our manufacturing and technology delivery in the Eastern Hemisphere as well and the headline on those is that's all designed to make us much more cost-effective and reduce our cost platform service delivery platform in the Eastern Hemisphere as well.
So all of these taken together are designed to sort of focus in on the cost side.
And of course now as we get these projects underway we've got the ability to begin to pull through other services to add incremental high-value technologies that should allow us to expand the top line just as well.
So it's definitely -- it's time to -- and we're focused on margins.
Okay.
It sounds that you have gained the position that you want to have and it's about defending and it's about being more efficient and it's about getting more margin out of what you're doing.
Is that correct? That's absolutely right.
Another question on North America.
You highlighted 2 constraints: people and proppants.
I think we're all familiar with the people.
But could you highlight a little bit what it means to be constrained on the proppant side and what you're doing about it? I think as you know Ole we have taken a fairly aggressive stance in terms of building capital equipment to satisfy what has been a gating issue in North America for stimulation equipment.
And hand in glove with that we have developed what I think is an extremely robust supply chain strategy which our North America operations have executed.
And that included -- has included investing in our supply chain to make sure that our supply chain can support our requirements.
And that includes their specific investments in terms of providing proppant and our specific investments in making sure that we can get it to the well site effectively and that includes obviously sand plants transportation et cetera et cetera.
So I think that there are clearly shortages in North America today and there are some disruptions that I think certain service providers have experienced.
I think we feel very good about our supply system and I think that making that investment hand in glove with our capital investment has paid dividends for us in the last quarter or so.
And so we're pumping about 1.3 billion pounds of proppants a month today.
The entire industry pumped about 3 billion pounds in 2000.
So I mean it's quite dramatically different and we're obviously working to make sure that we have the proppant in the right place the right proppant in the right place at the right time.
It's obviously a very big challenge for the industry.
Our next question comes from Bill Herbert with Simmons &amp; Company.
Mark with regard to North American incrementals I get the message with regard to a less robust rate of change in the third quarter for the Gulf of Mexico.
On the other hand you got Canada coming back.
I know it's small for you guys but when you distill it all into a conclusion net pricing continues to be forthcoming notwithstanding cost of goods sold inflation new frac equipment pricing Canada up and Gulf of Mexico more muted.
Are we in a range where incrementals are better than typical volumetric incrementals of call it 30% to 35% but well off what we saw in the second quarter? Yes.
I think that you've probably got it targeted right.
I mean I think that that should continue.
But as you rightly said Canada does -- is not going to really replace what potentially were the incrementals in the Gulf and I think that's going to be a big factor in this.
And I think that you have some level of seasonal recovery that happens in Q2 that we offset from Q1 that probably played an impact in the incrementals this quarter that won't repeat.
So I think you're absolutely right.
As you think about the capacity additions and where those gross margins come in the fact that we will get a higher fixed cost absorption will probably make it a little bit higher than the average margins today.
Okay.
So it's not necessarily unreasonable to think about something in the 40% range? I'm not going to give you any information on that.
You'll have to pick your number.
Okay.
I think I've already done that but that's okay.
And then secondly with regard to international you guys have been pretty consistent here with regard to the pace of international recovery which is basically labored.
And you're starting to refine your cost structure internationally.
I guess to right-size to the expected environment and some of the dislocations that we talked about.
With regard to the pricing initiatives that we -- that perhaps will be forthcoming late this year probably not a P&amp;L impact but should we -- sometime this year but should we expect the P&amp;L impact from some of these pricing gains perhaps in 2012? Yes.
This is Tim Bill.
I think it's sort of helpful when we talk about this to sort of go back and sort of take a look at what is the fundamental driver for our business which is rig count.
And if we look in the short term back just over the last quarter quarter-on-quarter both land and offshore rig count is down about 2%.
So that kind of demonstrates the labored nature of the recovery.
And when we take a look at sort of year-on-year you start to see some other pictures.
On land obviously we've got Libya which declines a whole bunch; Asia/Pacific flat; middle East is up; and Latin America was up.
So it stands to reason to us that when you start to think about where you might exercise some increased pricing power it's going to be in those areas where you've got a trajectory change in rig count.
That means Latin America and that primarily is restricted to Brazil Venezuela Colombia.
But Brazil as we all know is a very tightly managed market and the ability to move margins there is more restricted perhaps than in other areas.
And then in the Middle East where we've seen obviously big declines in Yemen.
Saudi in fact is down year-to-year on land at least.
And we're seeing some sizable increases in Kuwait with a restoration of Egyptian activity.
So in terms of just kind of giving you a sense and a feel for what has to happen we have to see a trajectory change and it's only in those areas where we're going to see a movement in rig count which is going to drive that.
So we feel to answer your last point that yes we're starting to see some stability in these certain markets starting to see that trajectory change in the markets that I've discussed seem to be to us the most likely ones where we'll see some ability to move price.
And when we talk about moving price Tim are we talking about gross pricing or net pricing? Volume becomes a precursor to pricing change and as Dave outlined I think with a couple of good examples of which we have many the first opportunity that generally is in the area of scope change where operators may feel the need to expand scope to achieve certain objectives.
And so what you'll see is volume which obviously helps drive margin accompanied by scope change.
And then the third block in the chain if you like is our real changes in price.
Our next question comes from Angie Sedita with UBS.
First going back to the U.S.
and the pressure pumping market Dave.
Your thoughts on your pressure pumping capacity additions that you could see in 2012 could you add as much capacity in '12 as you did in 2011? Angie this is Mark.
I don't know that we want to give any information yet about that.
We're going to be actually visiting with our board later this week to begin talking about our general views on the market.
But maybe just closing and say it's fair to say you heard our comments it does not appear to us that this market is slowing down in any way.
And so that may frame how the discussion goes.
But I don't think at this point we're in a position to say.
All right.
All right.
A partial answer I'll take it.
And then also the only relatively important segment that Halliburton does not operate in today is artificial lift.
Strategically do you believe that you need to be in this segment long term? And if so what you consider your viable options to get into this business? Well I think that historically I would say that artificial lift has generally historically been considered to be a relatively stand-alone business.
I think that as you all know whether it's on the well construction side whether it's on the completion side or the stimulation side in general the degree of integration which is either requested by customers or desirable from a service operator standpoint is significant and we continue to invest a significant amount in trying to improve efficiency and effectiveness.
So I think as you look forward over the next 5 years or so the degree of integration in all aspects of the completion including artificial lift intelligent wells et cetera will become a more important factor.
As to how we plan to address that Angie I'm afraid that that's something we prefer not to chat about.
All right.
And then finally on pricing in the international markets you cited clearly that we're going to see a little bit of strength ultimately in the Middle East parts of Latin America.
Give us your thoughts on the rest of the markets when can we see pricing? Is it not until the second half of 2012 in areas such as Southeast Asia Russia West Africa? Just a little color there.
I mean we still -- Angie this is Tim again.
I mean obviously I have to go back to the basics which is the rig count and we have to see rig count and trajectory change to see the potential for pricing.
And I think we've been pretty consistent in terms of our dialogue on a quarterly basis about the pace of the recovery and the fact that we have always felt that it's going to be somewhat sluggish.
And that absent certain areas and deepwater that we've just discussed I think we -- the jury is still out.
I mean look at some of these areas the rig count changes just haven't happened yet and I think we feel certainly more bullish as we look out.
I would say that in general if we look at our quotation activity it's coming through the system we feel more positive about some of the areas you've just described.
But it's going to require those rig activities to come through.
I was also going to add it's also going to make a big difference on how our competitors behave because in some of those markets there's still -- we're seeing our competitors continue to keep prices low.
So still a very difficult market competitively? Yes.
Our next question comes from Jim Crandell with Dahlman Rose.
LLC</strong> My first question has to do with the fracturing market in the U.S.
And I was wondering if you could take just the major markets there and describe how you think supply demand has changed if it's changed both in the big oil basins such as Eagle Ford or liquids-rich basins Permian Bakken et cetera.
And then how things might have changed in areas like the Haynesville and Marcellus? Yes Jim this is Dave.
I think it's basically a tale of 2 cities.
Any of the liquids plays be it the Bakken the Eagle Ford the liquids ends of the Marcellus they are all continue to be undersupplied and in some cases undersupplied dramatically from a fracturing market.
In some of the dry gas basins we're starting to see competitors leave.
We understand I think that we heard the other day that one of our major competitors has I believe has left Kilgore or somewhere in the Haynesville.
We are not leaving those markets as I've said before.
We have found I think a business model that would allow us to stay there with our customers and make the kind of returns that they want and the kind of returns we want.
But I think that if you think about the dry gas basins I would say they're probably at equilibrium.
And the oil basins or liquids basins they all continue to be underserved.
LLC</strong> Dave might you in looking at the market that you've indicated that you intend to stay in the Haynesville.
But if pricing in the Haynesville does come off in here and it just continues to strengthen might you take equipment out of those markets and move them into the oil markets? Yes.
As I said Jim I mean we have to find a business model that works for both sides.
We are not going to leave equipment in a market that doesn't give us the kind of returns we want.
So we will search for that model with a specific subset of customers.
And if we get there we'll stay.
But if we don't get there we will go to the liquids-rich play.
And we're bringing our costs down as we speak so that could be a ways off.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just one last question related to that Dave.
In the areas that are very strong let's just take the Eagle Ford example are you attempting in that region to package your -- I don't know if package is the right word but sell your entire product line and package other products with pressure pumping services as far as part of the pressure pumping contract? Yes absolutely.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So that's a strategy.
That's not just the case in the Haynesville but it's the case across the board in the U.S.? No.
I think that anywhere where there is a market underserved by frac equipment and we have our other product lines which we do we will insist on some or most of our other product lines being involved with that customer.
We're even beginning to see some cases where our D&amp;E product service lines are pulling through our frac work.
It's actually turning the opposite way now.
Yes absolutely a strategy.
Our final question comes from Jeff Tillery with Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> You guys are clearly optimistic about the business.
The $3 billion CapEx number you guys have targeted and talked about this year you've underspent a little bit.
I'm just trying to understand is there -- are you running into bottlenecks in which you can -- is $3 billion the maximum you could realistically get through the Halliburton system? And if not what would take that number to $3.5 billion or $4 billion? No no.
There's no general constraints.
I think it's just the pace of how things work through the system.
Typically when you approve your budget it takes a little while for things to get mobilized.
We do expect our CapEx for the entire year to probably be a little bit higher than $3 billion.
I'm sort of currently forecasting maybe $3.1 billion to $3.2 billion for the year and it'll just -- as we go through the year things will accelerate just a bit.
So yes no real bottlenecks at all.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> All right.
Understood.
A quick follow-up question.
Mark you've mentioned some unusual Latin American costs in a couple of countries.
Could you just provide a little color on that? Obviously there's some -- as we look across Latin America there are small dollars that add up over the course of several ones.
And there were some in Argentina related to personnel costs.
They're somewhat unusual.
I do not expect them to be a long-term added cost.
It's just something that we had to deal with from an accounting standpoint.
And then in Colombia as well we had some unusual costs.
There was -- we had some equipment problems due to -- had a loss there that we just had to take care of and clean up.
And so my own view is that as we look forward part of the confidence that I have that margins will improve is also that some of these costs will not repeat over the long term.
Okay.
So before we close we'd like to announce that our third quarter earnings call will be held on Monday October 17 at 8:00 a.m.
Central 9:00 a.m.
Eastern Time.
Shawn please close out the call.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This does conclude the conference.
You may now disconnect.
Everyone have a wonderful day.
Thank you.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Halliburton Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Call [Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host today Kelly Youngblood Senior Director Investor Relations.
Please begin.
Good morning and welcome to the Halliburton Third Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
Today's call is being webcast and a replay will be available on Halliburton's website for 7 days.
The press release announcing the third quarter results is available on the Halliburton website.
Joining me today are Dave Lesar CEO; Mark McCollum CFO; and Tim Probert President Strategy and Corporate Development.
I would like to remind our audience that some of today's comments may include forward-looking statements reflecting Halliburton's views about future events and their potential impact on performance.
These matters involve risk and uncertainties that could impact operations and financial results and cause our actual results to differ from our forward-looking statements.
These risks are discussed in Halliburton's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2010 Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30 2011 and in recent current reports on Form 8-K.
Our comments include non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures is included in the press release announcing the third quarter results which as I have mentioned can be found on our website.
We will welcome questions after we complete our prepared remarks.
Dave? Thank you Kelly and good morning to everyone.
I'm very pleased with the overall performance of our business in the third quarter.
Total revenues of $6.5 billion and operating income of $1.3 billion are both company records representing sequential growth of 10% and 15% respectively.
We achieved record revenue levels in our North America Latin America and Middle East/Asia regions.
In North America revenue and operating income grew sequentially by 13% and 14% respectively compared to a U.S.
rig count growth of only 6% and we exceeded $1 billion in operating income for the first time ever.
Our international revenue and operating income grew 7% and 23% respectively compared to a rig count growth of 2% driven by a 17% revenue growth in Latin America and more modest growth in the Eastern Hemisphere.
Let me talk about North America in a little more detail.
Strong activity in the Bakken Eagle Ford and Permian Basin drove the sequential growth for the quarter along with the seasonal recovery from the Canadian spring breakup.
Sequential incremental operating margin for the third quarter was 32% which was lower than the elevated level we saw in the second quarter.
The second quarter was favorably impacted by the typical spring seasonal rebound as well as very high level of Gulf of Mexico incrementals.
Incremental operating margins in the third quarter were negatively influenced by cost increases for materials logistics and labor.
Incremental margins were also negatively impacted by weather stoppages in the Marcellus due to flooding in Pennsylvania and by water shortages in the Mid-Continent due to drought restrictions.
We anticipate continued inflation on various cost items like labor freight chemicals and profits which we plan to offset through targeted pricing improvements.
Historically the pricing offset of these costs may not be realized in every case and can sometimes have a 1- to 2-month lag before cost increases can be fully recovered.
Leveraging our market position serving the customers we cannot get to at this time and the provision of integrated services offerings to customers will be the primary drivers of revenue growth going forward.
We also continue to work on efficiency gains and cost structure improvements as outlined in our Analyst Day in November 2010.
We are making good progress on the implementation of our frac-of-the-future for example and since January we've seen a 10% reduction in our average crew size.
So while gas drilling remained basically flat from the second quarter we continue to believe that there is a risk of decreased gas directed activity.
Gas demand for power generation increased this year due to the substitution of natural gas for coal and the harsh summer temperatures we experienced in various regions in the U.S.
However if this demand were to moderate next year we would expect that the gas rig count could as well.
We anticipate that if there is a decline at least a portion of the rigs would be redeployed to the liquids-rich place.
We've already seen this to a degree as rigs have left the Haynesville for other liquids basins.
Such shifts can impact our efficiency and financial performance.
In the Gulf of Mexico we are pleased to see a higher level of permit approval in recent months and we believe more deepwater rigs will be arriving in the Gulf over the next few quarters.
While this is a positive trend we remain cautiously optimistic as we need to see a sustained higher level of permit applications and approvals to get us back to pre-Macondo activity levels.
We believe that our customers now have a better understanding of how the permitting requirements work and this should help expedite the process moving forward.
As activity increases we believe we will continue to benefit as our share of new deepwater work awards under rigs that are deploying to the Gulf is approaching 40%.
This is higher than our typical historical market share.
Now let's look at some of our international results.
Latin America had a record revenue quarter and posted excellent sequential revenue and operating income growth of 17% and 69% respectively compared to a rig count growth of just 5%.
Increases in deepwater activity in Brazil higher drilling activity in software sales in Colombia and higher consulting and software sales in Mexico were the primary drivers of the strong sequential results.
Compared to the third quarter of 2010 these 3 countries grew significantly with Brazil registering revenue growth approaching 50%.
Operationally the Eastern Hemisphere also improved but to a lesser degree.
The rig count was flat from the second quarter but we still achieved modest revenue growth.
Last quarter we discussed 5 specific markets that negatively impacted our margins.
We still believe the future potential of these markets is well worth any short-term profit impact.
Let me give you a quick update on each of these markets.
Iraq continues to weigh on our near-term results but I'm pleased to say that we started operating 3 rigs near the end of the quarter and expect to be at 6 rigs by year-end.
We anticipate that we will return to profitability in Iraq in 2012 as activity increases but we will continue to incur mobilization costs in Q4.
We remain enthusiastic about the future potential of our Iraq operations and despite current challenges believe it will be one of the fastest growing countries in our operations going forward.
The conflict in Libya appears to be winding down but we continue to lose a significant amount of money each month maintaining our local workforce and infrastructure.
We have sent staff in the country to work with our local team to survey facilities and equipment and we have already completed a cement job in the past several weeks.
I'm happy to report that most of our facilities did not experience any significant damage and we anticipate being operational over the next few quarters.
This will obviously depend on how quickly our customers get reestablished and resume work.
Restoring our operations in Libya however will require us to incur some recovery costs as activity resumes.
In Sub-Saharan Africa we saw improvements in Angola Congo and Nigeria while start up costs continued to negatively impact operating margins in Tanzania Uganda and Mozambique.
As mentioned last quarter we continue to take action to improve the profitability of our U.K.
North Sea.
As part of this effort we incurred some additional restructuring costs in our U.K.
operations this quarter by impairing an asset we are now holding for sale.
We expect that these restructuring costs will continue in the fourth quarter but will be completed by the end of the year.
And lastly in Algeria it appears that the administrative challenges that impacted the industry in the second quarter are slowly showing signs of improvement.
Despite a decline in rig count from the second quarter our revenue and profitability improved sequentially.
So our outlook for the international operations remain unchanged.
We expect to see a gradual near-term margin progression as new project activities continue to ramp up.
We introduced new technologies and the negative impact of these 5 areas begins to abate.
While we have seen pockets of price improvement international pricing as a whole remains pressured in several key markets where our competitors continue to be quite aggressive in their bidding.
With the continuing competitive environment we do not expect any significant improvement in pricing this year.
However our margins should continue to gradually improve.
Now I'll briefly comment on the recent volatility in the equity and commodity markets.
While this of course has been very unsettling to investors it has not yet translated into any meaningful changes in customer behavior.
We are monitoring our customers' capital spending plans closely and while they do not cause us any concern at this point we will respond appropriately to any changes we see.
Despite the current uncertainty these short-term macroeconomic issues have not dampened our enthusiasm for the long-term prospects of our business.
In North America despite the fact that oil and liquids-rich plays have very robust economics it is likely that some E&amp;Ps who have been outspending their cash flows could reduce their capital spending especially among those private operators.
If this occurs the industry could see a moderation of growth or even a decrease in rig count.
We do not however expect to see a dramatic decline like the levels seen in the 2008 downturn.
In fact I believe it's a big mistake to make any direct comparison between recent market events and the 2008 cycle as there are several significant differences.
First North America is now a 2-commodity market for the first time in well over a decade.
During the last few cycles natural gas was a sole driver of activity.
Oil and gas have fundamentally different drivers and today our customers have developed balanced portfolios that allows them to shift activity as needed.
Second our customers appear to have broad access to the capital markets with record low good interest rates.
In the previous cycle constrained capital halted investment which in turn caused the abrupt reduction in activity levels.
Third is Halliburton's customer mix in North America.
We have aligned ourselves with the larger customers who have more stable activity levels and are not as vulnerable to short-term fluctuations in commodity prices.
We believe that this strategy will help temper any impact of a potential slowdown to our business.
This is partly driven by the reemergence of the IOCs and NOCs into the U.S.
land market.
Fourth contract structures in North America now look more and more like those of the international markets.
Today the majority of our equipment and services are tied to long-term utilization-based contracts where in the past the majority of our work was performed to pricing agreements without volume commitments.
The majority of our frac crews for instance are contracted with minimum volume or efficiency commitments through the duration of the contract and virtually all of our new fleets are deployed with similar contracts.
We are currently engaged in discussions with some customers about a new type of contract that gives them more flexibility but assures us of a contracted volume of work and efficiency level.
And finally looking at pressure pumping specifically there is still a large undersupply of capacity in the market today due to the continued increase in rig count that is weighted more towards the service-intensive oil-directed activity.
All of these factors provide me with [Audio Gap] and the resiliency of the North American market.
However if activity were to decline one significant advantage we have over most of our competitors is that we build our own equipment and therefore control its flow into the marketplace.
If we see the market tightening to any great extent we would look at immediately curtailing our build program.
We also can't forget about the rapidly growing interest and business opportunities in the development of unconventional resources in the international markets.
In contrast to North America international unconventional resources are highly undercapitalized from an equipment standpoint and we can accelerate and transfer equipment to these international markets.
We believe that Halliburton will meaningfully benefit from the emergence of these resources going forward and Tim will talk about them in a few minutes.
The fundamentals of our industry remain very strong.
Despite challenges in various economies around the world the IEA and others forecast energy demand that have only -- have been modestly impacted.
Even with relatively high commodity prices over the past few years leading to increased capital spending the industry has not invested sufficiently to impact spare production capacity.
This suggests that the industry may struggle to keep pace with demand growth in an environment where development of new -- with new resources continues to grow more technically complex.
Our confidence in the near- and long-term future of our business is reflected in our increasing headcount and the number of jobs that we have created in 2011.
We are on track to hire 17 000 people into our organization in 2011 about 12 000 of these jobs will be in the United States.
In addition to the people already hired we currently have 5 000 job openings in the U.S.
The fact that we are continuing to hire should be an indication to you of our positive view of the continuation of this cycle.
So whether we will experience another major global recession is yet to be seen but I am confident irregardless of the market environment we are very well-positioned to outperform our competition in growth and returns just as we did through the last cycle.
As always we will remain focused on delivering superior quality service and bringing technologies to our customers to enable both us and them to achieve their financial goals.
Let me turn it over to Mark now.
Thanks Dave and good morning everyone.
Let me provide you with our third quarter financial highlights.
Revenue and operating income grew 10% and 15% respectively from the second quarter.
Our results in the third quarter included an impairment charge of $25 million on an asset we're holding for sale as a part of our continuing efforts to right size our business in the U.K.
sector of the North Sea.
As a reminder our second quarter results included a charge of approximately $11 million in employee separation costs which is primarily related to our Europe/Africa/CIS region.
And I'll be comparing our third quarter results sequentially to the second quarter excluding both the third quarter asset impairment charge and the second quarter employee separation costs.
North America revenue and operating income grew 13% and 14% respectively well exceeding the U.S.
rig count increase as we continue to benefit from higher activity levels from capacity additions increases in service intensity and rig additions particularly in the oil- and liquids-rich basins.
We also saw the usual rebound in this quarter from Canada coming out of their seasonal spring breakup.
As Dave mentioned we continue to expect targeted price increases to help offset cost inflation.
As in prior years we expect to see a moderation of our U.S.
land results in the fourth quarter due to the holidays and lower efficiency levels experienced in the winter months particularly across the Rockies and Northern U.S.
And as a reminder the third quarter has historically been our strongest quarter of the year so it's typical to see a slight sequential revenue and margin decline in the fourth quarter.
For international operations our outlook is unchanged.
We believe that margins will continue to slowly improve from the third quarter levels due to gradual increases in activity.
And while we've seen pockets of price increases we're not anticipating any material upside in international pricing near-term given recent competitor behavior and the overall negative market sentiment.
We expect the usual sequential improvement in the fourth quarter driven by Landmark Software sales increased Completion Tool deliveries and direct sales of wireline and other equipment.
Typically international revenues and margins have increased by low-single digits from the third to the fourth quarter related to these year-end activities.
Similarly we would then expect to see a sequential decline in international revenues and margins in the first quarter of 2012 as these activities subside coupled with weather-related seasonality.
In terms of the segment results Completion and Production revenue increased $407 million or 11% while operating income grew by 18%.
The sequential incremental operating margin for the division was 42% primarily driven by higher activity in both North America and Latin America.
Looking at Completion and Production on a geographic basis North America revenue increased by 14% while operating income grew by 16% due primarily to higher activity especially in oil- and liquids-rich basins.
Canada's return from the seasonal spring breakup also contributed to the growth.
In Latin America Completion and Production revenue increased 11% while operating income grew 48% primarily due to higher activity levels in cementing and Completion Tools sales in Brazil and overall improved activity in Argentina and Trinidad partially offset by lower pressure pumping activity in Mexico due to contract mobilization cost and vessel drydock repairs.
In Europe/Africa/CIS Completion and Production revenue increased 4% and operating income doubled as we saw activity increase in our Boots &amp; Coots product line in Norway Algeria and Azerbaijan while production enhancement saw increased activity in Angola and Algeria.
These increases were partially offset by lower Completion Tools sales in the North Sea and the shutdown in Libya.
In the Middle East/Asia region Completion and Production revenue was flat sequentially while profit grew by 4% as increases in activity in Indonesia Malaysia and the United Arab Emirates was partially offset by declines in Oman Kuwait Qatar and China.
In our Drilling and Evaluation division revenue and operating income increased by 9% and 12% respectively led by activity increases in North America and Latin America.
In North America Drilling and Evaluation revenue increased 8% and operating income improved by 3% as the result of Canada coming out of spring breakup and strong directional drilling activity in the Gulf of Mexico.
Incremental margins were negatively impacted by the mix of business and some earnings variability associated with some oil and gas properties we are invested in.
Drilling and Evaluation's Latin America revenue and operating income increased 21% and 81% respectively due to higher drilling and fluid services and software sales in Mexico and Colombia along with increased testing and subsea activity in Brazil.
In the Europe/Africa/CIS region Drilling and Evaluation revenue was flat and operating income decreased by 11% due to reduced directional drilling activity in both the North Sea and Egypt which was partially offset by increased drilling activity in Eurasia Angola and Nigeria.
Drilling and Evaluation's Middle East/Asia revenue was up 9% while operating income declined 2% as the project delays in Iraq offset improvements from increased activity in Malaysia improved results on the Ghawar project in Saudi Arabia and some direct sales to China.
Now let me address some additional financial items.
Our corporate and other expense ran higher than we've historically experienced.
We incurred some additional costs this quarter for legal and some environmental matters.
Additionally we spent about $18 million for continued investment in our initiative to reinvent our service delivery platform in North America and to reposition our supply chain manufacturing and technology infrastructure to better support our projected international growth.
These activities will continue through the fourth quarter and into 2012.
And we currently expect the impact of these investments to be about $0.02 per share in the fourth quarter.
In addition we recorded $163 million charge in discontinued operations related to an indemnity provided as a part of our separation from KBR for work performed by KBR on the Barracuda/Caratinga project.
We're pursuing all possible avenues to appeal the ruling but at this point we've reserved the full amount awarded by the arbitration panel.
The effective tax rate for the third quarter came in just below 33% which was in line with our guidance.
For the fourth quarter we're projecting that our effective tax rate will be approximately 33%.
We'll be presenting our 2012 capital expenditure plan to the board at the end of the year and therefore will be waiting for to provide guidance on next year's capital plan until our fourth quarter call.
As Dave said earlier depending on market demand we can adjust our capital expenditures as needed.
Tim? Well thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
As Dave mentioned we continue to be bullish on the development of unconventional resources outside North America.
We've reported previously on exploration and appraisal activities but the pace of transfer of our technology and capabilities from North America is now more aggressively underway.
For example we've just completed the first multistage horizontal shale well for Apache in Argentina.
Ongoing unconventional operations are also underway in Poland Australia Mexico and Saudi.
We're in the process of mobilizing horsepower to our Europe/Africa/CIS Middle East/Asia and Latin America regions in support of these developments.
Dave also commented on the outstanding growth in Brazil in the third quarter.
This underscores our evolving strength in the deepwater segment.
With 51 new deepwater rigs scheduled to arrive between now and the end of 2013 we've continued to build infrastructure to support recent wins.
Not just in the Golden Triangle but in emerging frontier markets with 4 new basins supporting deepwater in East and West Africa Tanzania Mozambique Ivory Coast and Ghana scheduled for completion in the coming quarters.
We've also spoken to you about our mature asset strategy and our focus on growth and technology positioning in this segment.
The recently closed acquisition of Multi-Chem a leading provider of oilfield production and completion chemicals is a key step forward in this effort.
Multi-Chem has experienced tremendous growth over the last decade and we're excited to have them as part of the team.
As the reservoirs we work in become more complex and improved recovery factors are a stronger focus our comprehensive approach to production optimization will help us deliver improved well productivity to our customers.
Dave? Thanks Tim.
Just a quick summary then.
Despite the turmoil in the equity markets we continue to have confidence in our North America business.
And there are key differences in both the market and our business compared to prior cycles.
Two pricing in international markets remains competitive but we expect that our results will continue to show gradual improvement as a result of volume increases.
And 3 we remain focused on the high-growth markets of deepwater unconventionals and mature assets to enable continued delivery of strong financial results.
So with that let's open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Brad Handler with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Could you please speak to -- I guess let's -- maybe let's just stick with the quarter in terms of my questioning.
Just speak a little bit more to the North American Drilling and Evaluation results if you would.
You mentioned mix and a little bit of variability in your oil and gas properties but maybe you can help us quantify kind of the impact in the Gulf of Mexico.
I'm just trying to get a sense for that operating income results and then try to bleed through for what it may or may not mean for the fourth quarter.
Okay Brad this is Mark.
I think -- we're going to not probably get too granular on it.
But I think if you think in terms of the Gulf of Mexico obviously we had very strong incrementals in the second quarter from the Gulf of Mexico driven by sort of a return or a large surge in activity between Q1 and Q2.
Between Q2 and Q3 not as many rigs came into the market the margins are already there are fairly strong and so the incrementals weren't quite as large.
But from Drilling and Evaluations results from the Gulf of Mexico they are actually quite good.
We talked about the variability of earnings from some of the oil and gas properties.
That was a big factor in the quarter.
We do make investments with certain strategic customers and certain strategic properties in a way to not only learn the reservoirs but also test new technologies and techniques and there are some costs associated with that.
If you pulled that out of the numbers D&amp;E's would have been double-digit in the quarter.
The incrementals would have been double-digit.
They wouldn't have been as high as C&amp;P's incrementals but they would have been quite nice.
Hopefully that helps you.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
No that does help.
Maybe as far as a follow up maybe I'll just stick with the notion of the third quarter impacts and let people pursue the future.
But could you give us a feel for -- I was just a little surprised at some of the commentary about for example Libya being an incrementally worse impact and perhaps Iraq things got incrementally worse as well.
Could you go through the problem countries in the quarter and just suggest -- whereas a couple of the sub-Saharan countries look like they got better.
But if you could just identify for us where was there sequential decline still in the Eastern Hemisphere in the third quarter and a little bit of the drivers behind that? I think looking at -- I don't believe that we -- if you took away that we were saying that Libya was incrementally worse or any of these other markets were incrementally worse I wouldn't necessarily say that.
Probably the one that might have been a little bit deeper was Iraq and that's only because -- with the rigs coming in there there was more cost as we mobilized for that activity start up this quarter.
But otherwise I think we're making progress in each of those markets.
Algeria was better Sub-Saharan Africa was better Libya was no worse and I think even the U.K.
sector the North Sea was kind of in line with where it was in the previous quarter.
Our next question comes from Bill Herbert of Simmons and Company.
Research Division</strong> Mark a question for you here with regard to -- what I'm trying to understand here is there was quite a few moving parts with regard to Marcellus and Mid-Con waters shortages et cetera.
I'm trying to get to sort of an understanding of normalized North America and incrementals.
Dave touched on some of the constraints not necessarily constraints on a structural basis but timing issues with regard to passing through cost inflation items chemical fuel proppants et cetera.
How should we think about normalized incrementals going forward? Had been thinking about those in the 40% to 45% range with regard to your volumetric incrementals plus some ability to capture net pricing.
Is that still the way to think about it going forward? Well I don't want to provide too much guidance on this one.
I think that your averages on incrementals seems high.
The way that I would normally think about it is when you have capacity additions those capacity additions come in at the variable margin which essentially approximates what our gross margin would be which is probably in the high 30s.
But as Dave indicated we always have working against that delays and the ability to pass through some incremental cost related to increases in chemicals and proppants and other things which this quarter alone probably increased in the high-single digits as well as labor.
So we're constantly working against that.
And of course the other factor which I think you're beginning to see with this significant increase that we've seen in 24-hour operations across the U.S.
and being essentially sold out and fully utilized anytime you have any delay whatsoever whether it's weather-related or the availability of water or a customer delay because their schedule changes a little bit it has a incrementally negative impact on the margins.
And I think that's what you're seeing experienced.
I mean we're certainly still being able to get price increases to cover cost inflation and our equipment rolling out is going out at higher pricing then as we re-contract new equipment it's just not the ability to drive significant net pricing increases it's probably more muted today than it has been.
Research Division</strong> And then Dave with regard to international pricing I must say you've been consistent probably more consistent than any of your peers from day 1 with regard to how international has unfolded and consistent with regard to your prognosis of pricing and you continue to express that international pricing remains very competitive.
Can you amplify on that? Where is it competitive? Is it predominantly deepwater? And what's your prognosis for anything on the improvement front? Well I think we have been I would say very pragmatic about where international pricing is.
We live in that world every day so I see the tender results.
And we tried to call it like we see it.
I would say that the way to think about international pricing if it's deepwater or if it's a big project or if it's a multiple year project then it is very very competitive today.
And so I think as opposed to -- look across the world geographically I think if it falls into one of those buckets it's going to be very sought after and very competitively bid.
So I think that as more projects start and there are a lot of projects on the drawing board that are moving toward being sanctioned that will absorb some of the capacity that's out there.
I think that the pressure to bring margins internationally up sort of being applied by the management so the various service companies will start to create a bias toward higher pricing.
And I think just the general overall more positive economic outlook will get people feeling better about their businesses.
So at this point in time like I said it's still very competitive out there and I expect that folks' margins albeit moving up will move up relatively slowly.
Our next question comes from Ole Slorer with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I wonder if you could give us some color on what is likely to move the needle for you if you look at Middle East/Asia region on one hand or Europe West Africa North Africa on the other hand.
I mean how big of a deal is let's say the drag of Iraq and what's going on in North Africa? And is the key thing to get these things behind us before we can see a similar kind of progress to what you're now making in Latin America or is this the companies like BP becoming more active again and pulling volumes through? Or how should we think about kind of the big factors that will impact your margins in those 2 regions? Let me address Middle East.
I think there are couple of things.
First thing I'd say is that we obviously have been talking about activity increases in the Middle East particularly in Saudi for some time.
So the announcement has been made for some time.
But the reality is is that turning that into activity is only just now starting.
So for example here at the end of the quarter underneath we're running on 2 rigs and we won't be up full strength probably until the end of the first quarter beginning of the second quarter next year.
So I think just sort of thinking about the timing of some of these events would be -- is helpful and we certainly see some activity increases coming which we like and we feel very positively about.
With respect to Iraq it certainly has weighed heavily on our results.
Great potential I don't think anyone disputes that fact Ole.
But the fact of the matter is there are challenges and have been challenges in terms of getting things up and running on a timely basis for a variety of reasons.
And at the end of the quarter we are operating on 3 rigs.
We expect to be operating on 6 rigs by the end of the year at the end of the fourth quarter and we will see more activity in 2012.
So it's really a question of timing and as I think was mentioned earlier we've always been fairly pragmatic about it.
But we do see these changes being very positive for us as we move into 2012.
Research Division</strong> So on the Middle East just seeing big volume increase in areas like Saudi and Iraq cleared off but -- not yet at least starting to happen though.
But I'm sensing from some of your competitors let's say that some of the work that they bid in Iraq was bid at a very tough time of the international cycle and that you sort of need to -- to what extent do the industry need to work through contract that are signed at the bad point in the cycle before you can see real improvement in margins? So Ole I use -- I'm sorry just to sort of make sure I'm responsive to your question there.
I mean you're saying that -- you're asking the question around the timing of the bidding process and what it means in terms of delivering the targets? Research Division</strong> Yes I'm asking whether there is a backlog of work that needs to exit the portfolio before margins can move meaningfully higher or whether it's just simply getting going? I think it's a combination of both in Iraq to be honest with you.
I think that clearly there were some aggressive bids in place to get up and running get established and to really get a better understanding of cost and how efficiencies can be driven in Iraq.
And clearly I think we're all learning how to do that in Iraq.
So I think there's scope for margin improvement both in terms of the existing portfolio of contracts and also obviously with the increased training of Iraqis the lowering of overall cost infrastructure the ability to generate improved margins arguably at a slightly lower price on contracts in the future.
Let me also remind folks the nature of some of the contracts that we were awarded had a fairly high component of infrastructure investment that we were responsible for as well as drilling because they were greenfield projects.
Those are pass-through revenues for us which we have to record on a gross basis.
We record the revenues and the costs and essentially our margin in the deal relates to our management of the process which is a lower margin.
But it's a very very high return because we're not having to make the investment itself in the capital equipment.
And so while it reflects a lower margin for the project itself as these projects move on they have a very very high return component.
And as particularly we move into the product service line work that we will provide that those are bid at normalized or close to normalized margins which are very good returns for us.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And on Europe and North Africa or Northwest Africa what is the key there to getting margins up? I think we talked about the U.K.
sector of the North Sea and at some length not going to belabor that particular point.
I think as we all know and particularly in West Africa activity levels have been a little slow to return to Angola as it relates to rig count.
That's coming up nicely.
I think as we referred to in the call here we're installing 4 new bases which we've been incurring costs over the course of the last quarter or so to support deepwater operations for work that we won in both East and West Africa.
That's stuff that really moves the needle for us.
And of course notwithstanding all of that we will see some stabilization we're confident in Libya over the course of the next 2 quarters.
Security's still pretty rough in the West but as things stabilize we clearly have almost like a Gulf of Mexico type opportunity there because we're still incurring a significant cost we have nothing to leverage that against at this point.
But when we do -- the incrementals obviously will be very positive.
Our next question comes from Jeff Tillery with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Mark could you talk a little bit about Latin America where software sales were cited a couple of times as contributing to margin strength.
Is that something we're going to see back off the next quarter? Just curious how you think about the sustainability of the Q3 profit levels.
Actually Landmark's profits are actually a bit lumpy but the fourth quarter of each year is always their best quarter.
Just in the normal customer budgetary cycle we always see a surge in software and consulting sales as they approach the end of the year buying license agreements and things of that nature.
So we do expect -- if you recall last quarter we mentioned even on the call that Latin America's margins had been impacted in Q2 by a couple of one-off events in Argentina and Colombia which did not recur this quarter.
And so we saw not only just an increase in overall activity levels but a jump to sort of our normalized margins.
And so as we look ahead I think that we do feel that these margins are sustainable.
There'll be some seasonality as we go into Q1 but at least for the next quarter in Q4 we feel pretty good about where they stand right now.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> And my second question.
Can you just talk qualitatively about the trend you see in the North America business for both 24-hour operations and integrated services? Kind of where are you as a rough percentage of total crews out in the field being appropriately [ph]  your 24-hours your integrated services and how has that trended over the last 6 months? We're well over 50% in terms of 24-hour crews in North America.
And I think that we've done a very good job in getting to that point.
We'll continue to push that up.
What is the natural sort of endpoint for that not really sure somewhere above 50% somewhere below 75%.
So that's I think an expectation you can look at.
So we continue to push that.
And Jeff what was your other -- second part of your question? Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Same question for integrated services.
Integrated services obviously we -- I guess the thing that I would say is changing about integrated services is that I think that it was said sometimes with the right smile that we were in a great position to push integrated services because we had some leverage from -- particularly from pressure pumping.
In some cases from Drilling and Evaluation but mainly from pressure pumping.
But I think the reality is today that whilst we continue to do an increasing amount of integrated services the response from of our customer base is incrementally positive about the benefits that they're seeing.
So what I think we're doing right now is seeing a shift from perhaps shall I say contracted-led integrated projects to those projects by which the customers are really seeing some incremental value.
That's very positive because what it means is it will be -- it's a sustainable model which will prevail over any ups and downs in the market.
Our next question comes from Jim Crandell with Dahlman Rose.
LLC Research Division</strong> Maybe this one's for Tim.
Tim Schlumberger said at one of our events recently that there's now some element of performance-based pricing on some 40% or more of integrated and rotary steerable jobs.
Can we get your sense on performance-based pricing? How you see it as a differentiator and maybe how much of your work it might account for in those areas? Jim performance-based pricing has been around for obviously a long time.
Both in terms of using motors or rotary steerables or any kind of drilling technology.
It's an important tool in our toolkit.
I'm not going to disclose what percentage of our contracts are under some sort of performance arrangement but quite a few.
And really what the issue is is you've got to have the confidence obviously in these positions to able to stand by your ability to drill a certain footage in a certain time and we're very confident to do that.
We believe we've got the technology to stand behind those kind of commitments and obviously then generate the returns and the margins that we need as a company.
So yes it's an important trend.
I think Jim in general I would say that we would expect to see greater degrees of performance-related contracting going forward than we have as we kind of look back into the rearview mirror.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And second one just a follow-up for Mark.
Mark I understand some of the contract position of your U.S.
fracturing business.
But could you characterize what you think are supply/demand conditions in some of the most important domestic basins in the supply/demand and what you see as the trend in spot prices for frac-ing today? Jim let me take that one if you don't mind.
Bakken undersupplied; Eagle Ford undersupplied; Permian undersupplied; Marcellus undersupplied; Haynesville probably oversupplied; Mid-Con gas dry gas probably oversupplied; and Rocky Mountain dry gas probably at neutral.
LLC Research Division</strong> So Dave you hear these I'm sure you've heard these stories about companies' pricing maybe at small discounts take it in to range research or Carizzo's business of in the Marcellus and Goodrich claiming lower frac prices in the Eagle Ford.
As far as you're concerned you really just see these as competitive situations and not really indicative of any sort of balancing or softness in the market? No absolutely not Jim.
We hear about these things anecdotally and try to turn the anecdote into what are the facts.
And in many cases it's a small pumping-only service company that has a frac spread that's been cut loose by some other customer and they're going around looking for work.
That's one situation you run into.
Another is when a company that has decided to take a crew from the spot market to the contract market typically you do give a discount if a customer is willing to tie it up for a longer period of time at a guaranteed level of efficiency.
And I think so a lot of what we are seeing is spot-to-contract market or the one-off frac crew that's been cut loose and is just looking for a new home.
But in general no.
The customer base we're looking at and the people that want to use our equipment we're just not seeing any softening in pricing at all.
Our next question comes from James West with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> A quick question about your CapEx as we think about for 2012.
And Mark understand that you may not want to talk about the overall size of the budget.
But how are you guys thinking about the allocation between North America where it seems like we still have a pretty robust market for at least the near term and in international where volumes are growing.
And I know Tim talked about and Dave talked about you're undercapitalized on conventional resources internationally.
So how are you guys thinking about the difference between those 2 markets? No James I think that's fine to answer.
Just sort of a reminder really until this past year over the last 5 years or so we had biased our capital spend toward international markets particularly the Eastern Hemisphere as we were growing our business.
And we're talking about shades of -- it's not 90-10 it's been more like 55-45 or 60-40 depending on where what projects we were invested in.
This past year that bias had shifted toward the U.S.
As we look ahead to 2012 and it really appears to us right now that we are going to be biasing our spend towards the Eastern Hemisphere again.
We do anticipate international growth will be coming particularly as Dave alluded to for pressure pumping as we begin to focus on unconventional resource development in earnest.
Also with regard to deepwater spend and some of the activities there for the work that we will do.
So as we're thinking about it today it's going to be internationally flavored.
The least a majority of it will be and I would say with a bias toward Eastern Hemisphere.
We're maintaining flexibility and of course being an integrated manufacturer of the significant portion of our equipment that gives us a lot of flexibility.
Research Division</strong> Sure fair enough.
And is the I guess the bias of the overall budget higher or lower compared to this year? It's not going to be any less than this year I think.
But the question is do we maintain a line? We have been -- continued to operate within our cash flows being very return focused and you're not going to see us abandoning that return and the balancing growth and returns focus that we've maintained as we go into '12.
Our next question comes from David Anderson of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just a question about your customers in North America.
Are they talking about their 2012 plan right now or is it a little bit too early? Are they just kind of focusing on where the oil price is at the end of the year? Obviously they're going to have their -- oil production is coming up quite a bit.
This isn't a credit crisis like you mentioned.
I'm just trying to get a sense as to where you think upstream spending North America is going to be.
Do you see it being up next year I guess is the question.
And I guess secondarily is it basically oil price driven? A couple of things.
I think first of all our customers are obviously in the evaluation phase for their 2012 budgets right now.
We're monitoring those very closely Dave so we can kind of get as much insight as we can into what they plan to do.
There are a couple of sort of themes which seems to be running around.
Obviously one theme is the introduction of fresh capital from outside which is still continuing we're seeing that to happen.
Secondly is the relative balance between drill bit spend and also land acquisition.
That seems to be shifting in terms of probably a greater allocation towards a drill bit in 2012 and away from land acquisition at least that's sort of the early returns from some of the inquiries that we've had.
And I guess that based on what we see today I would say that spend next year in terms of drill bit spend not necessarily overall CapEx but drill bit spend looks to be up.
But obviously we're going to be monitoring that very carefully between now and the end of the year.
Research Division</strong> And then just to dig in a little bit more on your CapEx side but let me just focus on North America.
You talked about your flexibility and your ability -- you're manufacturing yourselves so you can move things around.
I guess a couple of questions on that.
Have you shifted that spending mix from first half to second half yet? I mean Mark you've often talked about investing countercyclically in North America.
So I guess what I'm wondering is are you guys already shifting kind of that spend kind of away from new additions right now? And I guess secondarily are you starting to see that more broadly in the market? Everybody's worried about overcapacity in the market but it seems to me that it's very possible you could see capacity additions slowdown 6 to 12 months from out.
Can you talk about that a little bit? Yes Dave this is Dave.
Let me handle that one again.
And the answer to your question the first part of the question is yes.
We have in fact biased our additions outside of the U.S.
in the back half of this year.
And as I travel the world there hardly is any place I go today that isn't asking for more horsepower.
So we've been able to satisfy the horsepower needs and the horsepower requests by shifting some of our production and sending it into the Eastern Hemisphere markets.
Because we're not going to end up in a situation where we don't have the horsepower that's needed in a location at the time that the customers are going to need it to drill the wells or complete the wells.
And so that part of it is true.
And the second part of your question with regard to people sort of slowing down I know what we do and we got basically a volume knob in our production and so we can turn it up we can turn it down as fast as we can.
I think a lot of our competitors because they have got to put orders in and have long lead times on those I'm not sure that they can slow it down as fast -- certainly can't slow it down as fast as we can.
But I think that everybody's watching the market and if the returns the extraordinary returns we're getting today start to moderate a bit for some of those companies I suspect that there will be less equipment coming into the market.
Our final question comes from Doug Becker of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> You highlight some of the cost inflation that you're seeing in North America at the same time you're making progress in the efficiency gains and the cost structure improvements.
Is it realistic to keep North American margins flat? Maybe with some quarter-to-quarter volatility in the flat rigs count environment in North America.
Yes.
I think that it depends on whether you're asking short-term or long-term.
Obviously we're coming into the winter months now and so I think it's important to sort of separate the dynamics of the U.S.
market into a couple of buckets.
One if you look at sort of how these cycles play out historically you have good pricing power for a period of time.
You run your margins up and then your input costs start to catch up with you and then you are in essentially a leapfrog game.
Your labor goes up your chemicals go up your inputs go up and then you turn around and you get those recovered from your customers.
Not as I said on a one-for-one basis and not always immediately and then you sort of reach another plateau and then you move on from there.
So and then I think we had sort of the one-offs in Q3 of the weather-related items.
We will have weather items.
I'm not predicting where winter is going to go other than we are starting to work in more Northern climes the Marcellus and the Bakken for instance.
But at the end of the day I like the position that we have in North America.
If you look at the fact that it is continuing to much more bias right now toward a liquids type of a market.
And then don't forget that we've got -- the goal out there is our frac-of-the-future.
We're reinventing our service platform.
I think that as Mark has indicated we're spending $0.02 or $0.02-plus a share per quarter reinventing how we are going to go to market in the U.S.
Now that isn't going to pay off for a couple of years.
But you take that reinvention of the platform you take frac-of-the-future both of which we're making good progress on and I think any market that gets thrown at us we will do as good as if not better than any of our competitors.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And actually you mentioned the reinvention.
Just how far along in the process would you say you are? I know costs will continue into 2012 but just how far along are we? I'd say we're probably less than 1/3 of the way into it at this point.
So before we close we'd like to announce that our fourth quarter earnings call will be held on Monday January 23 at 8:00 a.m.
Central 9:00 a.m.
Eastern Time.
Sean you can ahead and close out the call.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This does conclude the conference you may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Halliburton's Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host today Kelly Youngblood Senior Director Investor Relations.
Please begin.
Good morning and welcome to the Halliburton Fourth Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
Today's call is being webcast and a replay will be available on Halliburton's website for 7 days.
The press release announcing the fourth quarter results is available on the Halliburton website.
Joining me today are Dave Lesar CEO; Mark McCollum CFO; and Tim Probert President Strategy and Corporate Development.
I would like to remind our audience that some of today's comments may include forward-looking statements reflecting Halliburton's views about future events and their potential impact on performance.
These matters involve risks and uncertainties that could impact operations and financial results and cause our actual results to materially differ from our forward-looking statements.
These risks are discussed in Halliburton's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2010 Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30 2011 and recent current reports on Form 8-K.
Our comments include non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures is included in the press release announcing the fourth quarter results which as I have mentioned can be found on our website.
We'll welcome questions after we complete our prepared remarks.
Dave? Thank you Kelly and good morning to everyone.
Before discussing our fourth quarter results let me begin with a few of our key accomplishments in 2011.
First I'm very proud to say that this was a record year for our company with revenues of $24.8 billion operating income of $4.7 billion and with growth margins and returns that led our peer group.
To put this in perspective our business has nearly doubled in size over the last 5 years primarily from organic growth.
From a division perspective we achieved record revenues in both our Completion and Production and Drilling and Evaluation divisions and I want to thank all our employees for their help in making it happen.
The cornerstones of our strategy remain unchanged and include maintaining leadership in unconventional plays participating in the deepwater expansion and impacting the decline curve in mature fields.
This year we commercialized key technologies consistent with these growth themes and Tim will discuss them later.
As the industry leader in unconventional shale plays we performed the first shale fracs in numerous countries around the globe including Argentina Mexico Saudi Arabia Australia and Poland.
We are now starting to invest more heavily in building out our pressure pumping footprint in the international marketplace.
We are also continuing to invest in our deepwater business and have secured key contract wins in East Africa Vietnam Malaysia Australia China Brazil and other markets and are building infrastructure to support this work.
In addition it's important to note that our service quality continues to be recognized by our customers as Tim will also discuss.
We believe this improving market position and service quality reputation will benefit us as new build deepwater rigs are scheduled to arrive in the coming years.
Our customers are looking for deepwater alternatives that have the capability and technology and increasingly that company is Halliburton.
And lastly we continue to build our capabilities in servicing mature fields and supported that effort with some critical acquisitions in specialty chemicals and artificial lift in 2011 that enabled us to broaden the scope of our mature field offerings to our customers.
The most significant of these was Multi-Chem.
We expect that synergies and sales manufacturing and distribution will enable us to deliver additional value to our customers and shareholders as we expand the global footprint of this product line.
I'm very pleased with our results in the fourth quarter as we set new company records in both our North America and international operations.
Revenues of $7.1 billion represents the highest quarterly revenue in the company's history with North America Latin America and the Middle East/Asia regions all achieving new record levels.
Operating income of $1.4 billion was also a company record and was driven by strong performance in North America and the Latin America regions where we had year-over-year revenue growth of 56% and 46% respectively.
Let me start by providing some commentary on North America.
The shift from natural gas to liquids-rich plays continues and was quite apparent in the fourth quarter.
The U.S.
rig count grew 3% sequentially with oil-directed rigs up 8% and natural gas rigs down 2%.
The shift toward oil and liquids-rich plays are a direct result of the stability of higher -- of oil prices and higher operator returns for these resources.
Completing these wells requires higher levels of service intensity due to advanced fluid and completion technologies and creates an additional opportunity for us to otherwise differentiate ourselves from the competition.
We have highlighted for some time the dramatic impact that oil-directed horizontal activities has had on the North America market.
For instance in addition to natural gas rigs targeting liquids-rich plays the oil rig count now represents more than 60% of the total in North America a level we have not seen in decades.
Our customers' sources of revenue has also shifted dramatically toward oil with the sale of U.S.
oil and liquids representing approximately 70% of total upstream revenue today.
This compares with an approximate 50-50 split just 5 years ago.
And our customer mix continues to shift toward IOCs NOCs and large independents who tend to have a more stable spending pattern and more sophisticated supply chain management and away from those customers who might be more financially challenged in the current market.
We are also seeing a trend toward higher average footage drilled per well up to approximately 7 000 feet from 5 000 feet just 5 years ago.
And finally today reserve development demands 4x as much horsepower per rig as compared to 2004.
So clearly there's been a dramatic shift over the past several years and all of this bodes well for a continuation of high demand in the North America unconventional markets.
So what will that market look like going forward? The last time the breakeven price for oil development was so far below prevailing oil prices was back in the early '80s when the rig count was more than double what it is today.
And despite the vast amount of work we've done in North America in recent years there's only been a modest increase in net oil production as new supplies are barely offsetting declines for mature North America basins.
As a result we expect continued liquids-driven activity growth in the coming years as our customers invest in their resources and optimize their development technologies and we plan to continue to expand our capability and drive efficiency through technology and logistical improvements to enable this growth.
Now looking at the results for the fourth quarter.
Our North America revenue grew sequentially by 6% versus a 3% rig count due to strong activity in the Eagle Ford Permian Basin Marcellus Gulf of Mexico and Canada.
Despite this strong revenue growth operating income declined slightly from the third quarter.
And let me go over those reasons.
First our recent acquisitions and the associated M&amp;A costs that went with them had an impact of approximately one margin point on our North America margins in the fourth quarter.
Second as you know the Rockies and the Bakken are 2 areas where we have a particularly high market share and both markets experienced some seasonal impacts yielding inefficiencies particularly with our commuter crews.
The third quarter is historically our most profitable quarter each year in these 2 particular areas and this year was no different.
The impact of the holidays was more pronounced this year in these areas as customers chose not to compete -- to complete wells through the Christmas holidays.
Thirdly cost inflation continues to have a negative impact.
There is a delay between vendor price increases and when we are able to pass through these increases to our customers.
In the natural gas basins this is becoming more difficult and we plan to go back to our vendors for price relief in some areas.
This will take some time.
Fourth logistics and proppant supply.
While we have a very sophisticated logistics group there are times when issues arrive that are not within our control.
We experienced logistical and proppant supply disruptions in several areas in the fourth quarter and this impacted the Bakken Rockies South Texas and the Permian all of which had a negative impact on margins.
And finally we experienced inefficiencies associated with frac fleet relocations to address the challenges the industry is facing in 2012 and I'll say more about that in a few minutes.
Also spot natural gas prices are down 33% in the last 50 days due to the resiliency of natural gas production in a mild winter.
In response we have seen the U.S.
natural gas rig count decline 9% over that same period of time and this change is clearly impacting the industry as we move into 2012 as service companies' resources relocate to the oil basins.
Now we've talked in the past about how we believe it is important to have a balanced portfolio of business in both dry natural gas basins and liquids plays because a large number of our customers have operations in both.
Our strategy was to support these customers in the natural gas basins with a hyper-efficiency business model that went beyond just 24-hour operations.
We stayed with these customers in the natural gas basins even as other competitors left to chase work in the oil plays.
This strategy has worked well and deepened our relationship with these customers.
Our understanding with them was that in return for staying with them in the natural gas basins we would get their work in the liquids-rich plays as equipment became available.
This strategy is now playing out to our advantage.
As natural gas prices are falling to the sub-250 level we are proactively working with these customers to now serve them in the oil plays as they shift their capital spend to liquids and away from natural gas.
We have moved or are in the process of moving 8 frac fleets from primarily natural gas plays to liquids plays.
This requires redeployment of people and equipment.
It disrupts a very efficient operation and as well it is requiring us to make adjustments to our supply chain.
It's important to understand that these fleets that are moving are not looking for work but in each case now are committed to an existing customer or one who we could not serve before and in each case has or will deplace a competitor in the liquids plays.
So while beneficial to us in the long run these moves do not come out and do not come about without a short-term impact on our margins.
First we lose the productivity of these hyper-efficient 24-hour crews as they move away from locations with a solid infrastructure and a higher level of expertise.
Then when they start in a new location they're not as efficient as they get used to new operating procedures and how the reservoir responds.
And finally there's a doubling up on some costs as we generally have to use commuter crews while a local crew is changed -- is trained in the new operation.
So we believe that these pressures that come from this on revenues and margins will be limited.
The additional benefit we get from these moves is that even more of our revenue will be generated in the liquids plays while we still have the ability to increase prices which will help to offset inflation pressure.
Furthermore the shift to the oil basins requires more expensive materials particularly gels and proppants which are already in tight supply.
Additionally we believe that the movement of service capacity out of the natural gas basins will eventually help remove the overhang in natural gas supply.
So with great success we dealt with a number of these significant logistical challenges in 2011 and we see them being able to accommodate the tremendous growth that we see as we move into 2011 even though it's created some near-term uncertainty and pressure on margins.
The concern about what will happen in the dry gas basins is a real one.
However there are customers who will continue to drill in these basins as they have a low-cost gas basis a hedge bought before the collapse of pricing or contracts to send their natural gas to markets where the pricing is better.
These are our customers and they will continue to need our services in the natural gas areas.
And in most cases we have a long-term contract with them that value the efficiencies we bring so they can continue to make money even at lower prices.
We have not yet exhausted the demand for fleets that we can relocate to those customers who want our services in the liquids basins and we will continue to do that as necessary.
We have established a great position in the U.S.
market.
And in these uncertain times I believe that will pay off big for us.
As we look at the market dynamics today and even apply a downside scenario to how it might play out based on frac equipment adds as well as reduced gas drilling which would accelerate the equilibrium in the market for pumping it is clear to us that the strength of liquids demand will provide a cushion to equipment coming out of the dry gas basins.
We also believe that there will be a net overall increase in rig count in 2012.
Meaning that in our view the increase in liquids-directed rigs will more than offset the decline in natural gas rigs.
We believe a much more pessimistic scenario is currently priced into our stock and we do not see that happening.
In the Gulf of Mexico we continue to see a gradual increase in activity levels with our fourth quarter revenue surprisingly now exceeding pre-moratorium levels.
We believe we will see an increase in the level of permit approvals in 2012 leading to additional deepwater rigs arriving over the next several quarters.
Margins for the Gulf are expected to improve but not to pre-moratorium levels until later this year or into next year as our customers adapt to new regulations.
So while we expect some inefficiency and therefore a downward pressure on margins in the near term due to the shift in our geographic and commodity mix that I just discussed we believe that the idea that North American margins will collapse is a ridiculous one.
We believe increased activity from our customers due to support of liquid prices good access to capital and continued increases in service intensity are very supportive of a healthy market in 2012.
Keep in mind we have also been spending money on improving our cost structure as we outlined in our Analyst Day to stay ahead of the competition.
And finally we remain focused on providing superior service to ensure that we are the provider of choice and to maximize the value for our customers.
So overall we are very optimistic about 2012 and fully expect that North America revenue and operating income will increase over 2011 although we could see margins normalize somewhat through 2012 and we'll have a better view of this absolutely as the year goes on.
Now let's turn to our international results.
Latin America had another outstanding quarter posting sequential revenue growth of 9% compared to a rig count decline of 1% and their operating income grew 24%.
Mexico led the growth with higher drilling activity consulting services and software sales.
Also contributing to the stellar quarter was Colombia with higher drilling activity and Brazil.
Compared to the fourth quarter of 2010 these 3 countries combined and grew an impressive 50% year-over-year.
Our Eastern Hemisphere experienced 11% sequential revenue growth compared to a rig count growth of 3% while operating margin improved to 13% driven by year-end sales of software completion tools and other equipment.
Also contributing to the strong quarter were improved results in Iraq Algeria and East Africa.
We continue to show progress in the markets that have been negatively impacting our margins over the past few quarters.
For instance in Iraq we are running 5 rigs today 2 more than at the end of the third quarter.
We expect to add additional drilling and workover rigs in 2012 which will enable us to be profitable as activity levels increase.
Overall we remain enthusiastic about the future of our Iraq operations despite the challenges we went through in 2011.
Libya's production is coming back online and although we have performed some minor work in the country we are still awaiting well-defined operational plans from our customers.
In Sub-Saharan Africa we continue to see improvements in Angola and Nigeria.
And while startup costs have negatively impacted operating margins in East Africa we saw overall sequential improvement in this market.
And lastly we've been taking action over the past few quarters to improve profitability in our Europe/Africa/CIS region and we've made substantial progress in our restructuring efforts and believe we are now well positioned to deliver improved profitability in these markets in 2012.
We have been consistent in our outlook for our international operations.
We anticipate international pricing will continue to remain competitive particular in regard to larger projects.
In 2012 we expect to see a gradual improvement resulting from new rigs entering the market and increased customer budgets which we believe will be skewed toward deepwater and international unconventional projects.
With tight supply and demand fundamentals for oil and international natural gas prices that are often well above North America prices we believe the drivers of the sustained activity in the Eastern Hemisphere are sound.
So in summary we expect to see our Eastern Hemisphere margins progress through 2012 with a full year average in the mid-teens as new projects ramp up new technology’s introduced and the negative impact of the areas we've mentioned previously continue to abate which means that we should have Eastern Hemisphere margins in the mid- to upper teens by the end of the year.
We believe that our growth prospects are so strong across all of our businesses that we are increasing our capital spending to the range of $3.5 billion to $4 billion in 2012.
However we do not expect to increase our pressure pumping horsepower additions beyond the 2011 levels and we plan to spend -- to send more of this horsepower into our international markets.
But we will of course maintain our ability to flex the capital as the year goes forward.
So 2011 was a very successful year for the company with revenue growth of 38% and operating income growth of 57%.
We saw record activity levels and we will continue to expand on our market position.
I believe we will continue to build on this success which should put us in the unique position to continue to achieve our objectives of superior growth margins and returns versus our competitors.
I'll let Mark give you a little bit more detail.
Thanks Dave and good morning everyone.
Let me provide you with our fourth quarter financial highlights.
Our revenue in the fourth quarter was $7.1 billion up 8% sequentially from the third quarter.
Total operating income for the fourth quarter was $1.4 billion up 7% from the previous quarter.
Our results in the fourth quarter included a $24 million charge in Corporate and Other related to an environmental matter.
As a reminder our third quarter results included an asset impairment charge of $25 million in the U.K.
sector of the North Sea.
Now going forward I'll be comparing our fourth quarter results sequentially to the third quarter of 2011 excluding the impact of these charges.
North America revenue grew 6% while operating income declined 1% compared to the previous quarter.
As Dave mentioned the impact of seasonality cost inflation and recent acquisitions negatively impacted our North America margins during the quarter.
As a reminder we historically see our first quarter results affected by weather-related seasonality in the Rockies and the Northeast U.S.
where we have a high percentage of 24-hour crews and it's typical to see a sequential revenue and margin decline in the first quarter.
In addition we're expecting some short-term inefficiencies as a result of rigs and equipment moving from natural gas to oil-directed basins.
We're anticipating these issues will result in a sequential margin decline of approximately 100 basis points in the first quarter for North America.
Internationally revenue and operating income grew 11% and 37% respectively driven by activity improvements across all our regions and seasonal increases in softwares completion tools and direct equipment sales at the end of the year.
Our international margins improved to 15.2%.
About half of the margin increase resulted from our seasonal increase in software and direct sales.
The other half of the margin increase was driven by activity improvement in our other operations.
Now for the first quarter of 2012 we're anticipating the typical sequential decline in international revenue and margins due to the absence of these year-end seasonal activities as well as the typical weather-related weakness in the North Sea and Eurasia.
As a reminder this international activity decline has historically impacted our first quarter results by approximately $0.10 per share after tax and we have no reason to believe it will be materially different in 2012.
Now I'll highlight the segment results.
Completion and Production revenue increased $303 million or 8% due to activity growth in North America and operating income was essentially flat as improved international profitability offset a slight decline in North America.
Looking at Completion and Production on a geographic basis North America revenue increased by 7% from higher U.S.
land offshore and Canadian activity.
Operating income declined by 2% primarily due to the holiday downtime cost inflation acquisition impacts and fleet moves that Dave described earlier.
In Latin America Completion and Production posted a 5% sequential increase in revenue while operating income grew by 19% as a result of increased stimulation work in Mexico and higher cementing activity in Colombia and Mexico.
In Europe/Africa/CIS Completion and Production revenue and operating income increased 15% and 10% respectively due to improved vessel utilization in the North Sea increased cementing work in Angola and higher stimulation activity and completion tools sales in Algeria and Nigeria.
In Middle East/Asia Completion and Production revenue and operating income increased by 8% and 4% respectively due to increased work in Iraq improved stimulation activity in Australia and increased direct sales within the region.
In our Drilling and Evaluation division revenue increased $213 million or 8% and operating income was up 30% due to the year-end seasonality of higher software and direct sales as well as higher activity levels in Mexico Iraq Colombia Brazil and East Africa.
In North America Drilling and Evaluation's revenue and operating income were up 4% and 2% respectively due to higher wireline and drill bits activity in both the U.S.
land and the Gulf of Mexico as well as increased software sales in the U.S.
and Canada.
Drilling and Evaluation's Latin America revenue and operating income increased by 11% and 27% respectively primarily due to higher activity levels in Mexico and increased testing and subsea work in Brazil.
We also benefited from strong project management activity in Mexico on the Alliance 2 and Remolino projects.
In the Europe/Africa/CIS region Drilling and Evaluation revenue and operating income were up 5% and 27% respectively due to increased wireline and directional drilling activity across the region along with the seasonal year-end increase in software sales.
Drilling and Evaluation's Middle East/Asia revenue was up 17% and operating income was almost 1.5x greater than prior quarter levels due to increased direct sales in Asia and higher drilling activity in Iraq.
Now let me address some additional financial items.
Our Corporate and Other expense included approximately $23 million for continued investment in our initiative to reinvent our service delivery platform in North America and to reposition our supply chain manufacturing and technology infrastructure to better support our projected international growth.
These activities will continue in 2012 and we anticipate the impact of these investments will be approximately $0.02 to $0.03 per share after tax in the first quarter.
In total we anticipate that corporate expenses will range between $95 million and $105 million per quarter during 2012.
In November 2011 we issued $1 billion of senior notes.
This new debt issuance will increase our interest expense by approximately $10 million per quarter and we're projecting overall interest expense for 2012 to be approximately $75 million per quarter.
Our effective tax rate was 33% for the fourth quarter and 32% for the full year.
Looking forward we currently expect the 2012 effective tax rate will be approximately 33% to 34%.
And finally we expect depreciation and amortization to be approximately $1.6 billion during 2012.
Tim? Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
I wanted to provide some additional detail on the accomplishments that Dave alluded to and some of the technologies which not only have made a substantial contribution to our success in 2011 but will we believe underpin our focus areas for growth in unconventional deepwater and mature assets in 2012.
In the North America unconventional market we've made great progress in deploying elements of our frac-of-the-future strategic initiative.
We're rolling out our first series of Q10 pumps that have demonstrated significant reliability and maintenance advantages in field testing over our current fleet already generally considered to be the best in the industry.
Aggressive deployment of SandCastle storage and advanced dry polymer blenders in 2011 is expected to also provide ongoing improvements in capital efficiency and environmental performance.
We've been particularly pleased with the performance of our GEM wireline analysis tool which offers rapid evaluation of complex petrophysical properties called "Shale Expert." It's been widely used in unconventional fields in the U.S.
and internationally.
We introduced our new RapidFrac sliding sleeve system that provides our customers with a dramatic increase in efficiency for the completion of horizontal unconventional reservoirs.
We were also the first to deliver a cemented version of this technology.
We realized a 10% reduction in crew size this year and we expect ongoing improvements as we increase remote job monitoring and complete the deployment of our field mobility program which will deliver enhanced operations and logistics efficiency.
So in total we believe our frac-of-the-future initiative will make us the most cost-effective service provider in the industry.
We expect it to be fully rolled out in North America by the end of 2012 and will serve as a platform for our investment in international unconventional growth too.
We continue to feel positive about international unconventionals.
Customer consulting agreements have given us an opportunity to screen some 150 worldwide unconventional basins and 60 in detail.
We are very encouraged by the properties we see in many of these basins and are responding accordingly with capital investment.
Drilling on LWD technology deployment moved rapidly in 2011.
Geosteering activity to optimally place wellbores in reservoir sections was up 75% year-on-year driven by unconventional and deepwater activity.
Much of this was based on our award-winning ADR deep-reading resistivity technology.
Sampling technology while drilling has had a special emphasis for us.
Our recent GeoTap IDS run offshore was used to gather over 50 pressure and multiple-reservoir fluid samples during drilling operations; an industry first.
This allowed the customer to save over 80 hours of rig time and eliminated the need for a competitor's wireline run.
We also set numerous records in high-pressure high-temperature applications in 2011 both for our wireline and drilling technologies.
And we continue to see new wins based on this differentiated technology as our customers increasingly exploit deeply buried reservoirs.
The exciting worldwide launch of DecisionSpace Desktop in 2011 was very well received in the market and contributed to a record profit year for Landmark.
Over 1 600 individual licenses were established in the first year and 46 of our 50 largest customers have either migrated or are in the process of migrating their data to the DecisionSpace platform.
Integrated Project Management activities are on a steep upward trajectory.
Despite a slow start in Iraq revenues for our Project Management segment nearly doubled from 2010.
We see this as a major growth platform and the pipeline in 2012 is strengthening notably in mature assets.
So while we've been pleased with the growth of the technology portfolio and its ability to underpin our top line and margin growth in 2012 we're also very focused on execution and service quality.
We're pleased with our performance this year.
For example Sperry drilling and wireline rates of nonproductive time continue to strengthen by 24% and 26% respectively from 2009 to 2011.
And we continue to receive positive customer feedback including a top performance review from a European IOC for formation evaluation.
The combination of fit-for-purpose technology with excellent execution provides us a strong foundation for 2012 growth.
Dave? Thanks Tim.
So obviously a lot of moving parts this quarter.
Let me summarize what I think should be the takeaways.
One we do not believe that there will be a collapse in margins in pressure pumping in the U.S.
Therefore our revenues and operating income are expected to increase in 2012 in North America.
We expect our revenue growth will be in excess of the rig count growth in both the Eastern and Western Hemispheres.
We expect our deepwater revenue growth will be in excess of the deepwater rig count growth while we continue to earn from our customers kudos for our distinctive service quality.
And although it will have a short-term impact on our margins we are proactively moving equipment from dry gas basins to liquids plays and this equipment is immediately displacing competition.
We expect our Eastern Hemisphere margins to return to the mid- to high teens by the end of 2012 as we gain traction on new projects and growing our revenue faster than rig count.
And lastly our positive view of the market supports a capital spending of $3.5 billion to $4 billion.
But let me reiterate pressure pumping horsepower additions are not expected to increase over 2011 and we believe more of those will go to the international markets.
So let's turn it over to questions at this point.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from James West with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> A quick question on -- so your North American margins you mentioned another 100 basis points down in 1Q.
Do you expect a -- further I know you don't expect a collapse but a further deterioration as we go into 2Q 3Q or is that where we start to stabilize out? And I guess a follow-up to that is kind of what should normalized margins be in North America? I think the answer is at this point James that it's too early to tell.
Obviously we said in our comments we look at the gas market's changes right now with some level of concern.
But for the time being most of those rigs are shifting from dry gas to liquids-rich basins.
And as long as the rigs continue to shift then we should be able to shift equipment.
And while there might be some temporary margin impact we should be able to get back to some level of normalized margins once the cost blip passes.
But right now I think it's still a little bit too early to tell.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then can you just Mark remind us what kind of contract coverage you have for the pressure pumping equipment you have in North America today and then for the incremental capacity you have coming in this year? Yes James this is Dave.
All of our equipment that we have out there today and all that we anticipate bringing out in 2012 is already allocated to a specific set of customers.
So none of it will be sort of in the open speculative market.
Our next question comes from Brad Handler with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I guess I'll stick with North America as well please.
If the -- is there -- and ultimately that sense of where margins can go if you're positioning assets more in liquids markets what does -- what implications does that have on 24/7 operations once they're -- once you're doing what you think they should be doing? And maybe just conceptually then if you have more pricing leverage than you've had in the last 6 months just talk to us a little bit about where you think sort of the margins can -- let's strip out a couple of things if you will but can margins get back to above levels were you saw say in the third quarter? Well I think obviously as we -- as they shift into the oil basins the opportunity to go toward 24-hour operations improves.
Right now activity is still fairly robust in those markets and there's a clear shortage of people and equipment as well as some of the supply chain issues that we find.
And based on all the reports that we get from our guys in the field we're continuing to get some pricing improvements in those oil- or liquids-rich basins.
The problem I think that we face as we look forward is what will inflation do? As Dave commented we're going to have continued challenges with logistics with the supply chain moving proppants and gels and other things into those basins because they're in short supply.
And we're fighting back inflation as hard as we can.
Most of the price increases that I think that we're being able to achieve right now are serving to basically offset that inflation.
We're going to have to work hard as Dave commented to really push back and see if we can get some relief from some of our suppliers as things soften in the gas basins.
But we'll have to continue to work to make sure that we can get all of that passed through with the price increases that we get.
So I think as I've said it's a little early to comment as to how much we can move pricing on a net basis nor -- I just can't speculate at this point whether we'll be able to go back and get them back above those levels that we had in Q3 or even higher.
Research Division</strong> Understood and I appreciate the color.
As a follow-up related -- coming back to pricing but maybe touching on a couple of things slightly differently can you comment on price -- your pricing realizations recently in natural -- in dry gas basins? And then actually can you give us some color on nonfrac-ing pricing in the U.S.
as well? This is Tim.
Clearly in the dry gas basins there has been significantly more pressure than there has in liquids basins.
I think that one of the things I tried to sort of outline for you here just on the call is a few of the key technologies which are giving us an opportunity to extract some pricing realization pretty much across the board from drilling evaluation through to -- Drilling and Evaluation through to Completion.
So there's leverage I think in North America to do that.
That's the technology side.
And as Dave and others have alluded to we're also working hard on the cost efficiency side investing substantially into an effort to lower our cost of delivery.
So I think we've got a couple of tools in our chest here to -- in our war chest here to ensure that we minimize the impact of the transfer from dry gas to liquids basins and then once there have the tools to make sure that we get value for what we're delivering.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
But absent the -- and I'll let others go.
Absent the technology opportunity set in nonfrac-ing-related activity say in -- also in liquids-rich basins for example are you seeing -- whether it is in coiled tubing or whether it's in your drilling suite are you seeing pricing opportunities like-for-like products today? There are some pricing opportunities.
I think completions would be a bright spot.
Obviously with the introduction of RapidFrac I would say that.
And to use a negative example obviously as you move out of some of the deeper hotter dry gas basins like the Haynesville where high-temperature high-pressure tools have been under great demand there's less demand for those in liquids-rich basins.
So there's a couple of pluses and minuses for you.
Our next question comes from Jim Crandell with Dahlman Rose.
LLC Research Division</strong> Another question on North America.
David seems like one of the reasons for your success in North America is that you've been able to get your customers to take at least 4 other product lines for new frac spreads when you contract with them for frac equipment.
Your competition says this will change when things come back into balance.
Do you see it changing? Or do you think this can be a somewhat permanent feature of the business? No I think it's a -- I think it's more of a permanent feature of where we see the market.
We were able to use the leverage of the frac fleet and still continue to use the leverage of the frac fleet -- don't get us wrong that we lost it it's still there -- to bring some of our other product lines along.
What we've been able to do is prove to our customers that by integrating those products together with a frac either through an integrated completion or integrated drilling that there's actually a benefit to doing that.
And therefore our customer gets a well down faster cheaper more efficiently or more quickly.
So I don't see the world going back to that because I think we've been at this long enough to prove the benefit of that strategy out.
LLC Research Division</strong> And my follow-up is an international question.
And in your opinion will increased demand alone start to be the catalyst that gets pricing to improve on large tenders? Or will it take a change in mindset by at least one of the major companies in the business? I guess our planning assumption at this point is it's going to take an increase in demand overall.
I mean I think that clearly there are situations where service quality and technology can come to bear that might help us in pricing.
But our planning assumption is that the competition -- our competition is continuing to price very very aggressively to prop up their share positions.
And so we're continuing to battle hard on that front and that means that it's in our -- it's our responsibility to execute well and to continue to roll out technologies to make sure that we can improve our margins and improve our returns over time at least for the foreseeable future.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay Mark just one more quick one.
Your international contracts if you have a-year-or-2 contracts for your frac equipment do they have a clause which allows the customers to suggest a lower price to you or to ask for a lower price and you then consider it? No.
They typically don't have a clause that allows them to consider a lower price.
A number of them have clauses that allow them to step away from the contractual arrangement after some period of time and there are usually some penalties and make-wholes that are associated with that.
What we're seeing in a number -- as Dave alluded to when they begin to shift equipment there also is a discussion of them shifting the arrangements to continue to work with them as the rigs move to the liquids-rich basins.
Our next question comes from Bill Herbert with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> With regard to your Eastern Hemisphere margins or international in general if we're looking at a $0.10 hit quarter-on-quarter Q1 due to reasons that you mentioned which are largely seasonal are we looking then for the balance of the year in order to hit your mid-teens target on the Eastern Hemisphere front for the year up 200 or 300 basis points per quarter as 2012 unfolds at least? I don't want to set specific expectations on that but yes I mean I think when you do the math that's generally how it's going to need to work.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then with regard to your deployment of pressure pumping internationally and that's going to outpace the deployment of the domestic -- of assets -- of frac-ing assets in North America is there -- or so is that international deployment is it at this juncture trying to capture growth option value? Or is it specifically correlated with project ramps which you've been contracted for or you're in sort of a specific dialogue with customers? No I think Bill it's really the latter.
I think the -- if you look at the spaces that we enumerated where we've done shale fracs last year those -- you got to think of those as really exploration plays still.
But we are having enough discussions with enough customers in those geographies to indicate to us that the demand will be there for that equipment.
And similar to what we saw in the U.S.
the demand for additional horsepower to do these shale fracs is there.
So typically where the investment is going is to augment the horsepower that we already have in place in these countries to basically take advantage of and have adequate horsepower on standby to be able to do the larger shale fracs versus maybe conventional work we've done there in the past.
Hi Bill.
This is Mark.
I want to just make sure we correct a statement that you said.
We weren't saying in our comments that we're sending more horsepower to international than we are into North America in 2012.
We're just sending more than we -- to international than we sent in 2011.
Higher percentage okay? Research Division</strong> Yes good.
And then one more for me.
Mark I'm not sure if you addressed this with regard to your guidance but corporate expense for 2012 how should we think about that? Well we should run probably in total about $95 million to $105 million per quarter.
And we did say in the first quarter yes there's going to be $0.02 to $0.03 of -- on an after-tax basis of cost that will be for these corporate initiatives and that it probably will run in about the $0.02 range for the remainder of the year on an individual quarter.
So that's a large part of why the corporate expenses have stepped up on a year-over-year basis.
Our next question comes from Waqar Syed with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just want to follow up on the international shales as well.
A year ago when I've asked you a question about how many rigs may be working in international shale I think at that time the number was maybe in the 10 to 15 kind of range.
How has that number changed now in the last 12 months? And where do you expect that number to go in the coming 12 months? Waqar this is Tim and I'll use an example to sort of maybe help with that Latin America which has got quite a lot of opportunities in the combination of Mexico Colombia and Argentina.
And it seems to us that the opportunity continues to grow.
In 2012 it sort of feels to us like there's somewhere between 75 and 100 wells which will be drilled for shale activities in Latin America.
And just if we put that in perspective with respect to a Haynesville for example which is just sort of about 99 rigs or thereabouts at the moment I mean clearly if you divide that -- or multiply that 99 rigs by 3 or let's say 4 to 6 wells per year we're dealing with a significantly smaller opportunity today.
But the opportunity is growing and as David alluded to we're in the sort of primarily exploration appraisal phase low horsepower requirements primarily vertical now shifting to horizontal where horsepower requirements are doubling as well as an increase in activity.
So we think 2012 is a pretty good transition year for unconventionals and we'll see the most significant uptake in '13 and '14.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And now this is just Latin America.
How about some of the other markets Europe or Asia? Well yes obviously similar pictures there too.
We're just using Latin America as an example for you and there are emerging opportunities around the globe.
As I alluded to earlier we’ve had the opportunity to do some basin evaluation work of some 60 basins in detail and those evaluations are not escaping our customers either.
So we're going to see a very positive trend here.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Now would it be fair to say that when pressure pumping trucks were traditionally being employed internationally for let's say cementing and maybe acidization [ph] jobs as they shift to fracturing the revenue potential per crew could increase maybe 10 to 15x is that fair to say? Or 10x or so? It's not math that I've necessarily done Waqar.
I don’t know that we could say right now.
There clearly is a substantial revenue pop.
I mean the difference normally in a horizontal well in the U.S.
that's frac-ed versus a conventional well’s almost 2x.
So yes you think about the entire revenue opportunity it's going to step up quite dramatically if that becomes the norm outside the U.S.
as well.
Our next question comes from Angie Sedita with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Dave or Tim in the liquid basins on pressure pumping can you give us an idea today of what you're seeing in wait time for frac crews today versus 3 months ago versus 6 months ago? Obviously we're dealing specifically with the liquids-rich basins here just to sort of to -- obviously dry gas is different.
But I think that we can -- based on the reports from our field guys we're still very heavily booked through Q1 which is pretty much as far as we ever look out.
So that to us is a good indication.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then given that you're mobilizing equipment from your gas basins into the liquid basins I assume others are doing the same.
Could we reach a balanced market in the liquids basins earlier than originally expected? I think as Dave alluded to we continue to expect to see an increase in rig count.
And as you have noted yourself probably our customer base is striving to balance their dry gas and liquids-rich exposure and we're seeing a significant shift if you like from their dry gas element of their portfolio to the liquids element of their portfolio.
So it's not just a function of individual customers stopping activity.
It's the transference of activity.
And also we tend to get higher service intensity in liquids-rich basins which obviously is beneficial in terms of the overall revenue picture.
Research Division</strong> Very very helpful.
And finally just you talked about mobilization and you were talking -- speaking earlier about the cost and logistic issues and it seems like you're still getting your head around will that continue through Q1 and into Q2 and the time horizon.
But at least on the mobilizing of 8 crews from the gassy plays to the liquid plays when will that be completed by? And from what regions are you moving equipment from? And what regions are you moving it to? Well that will be completed this quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then to what region? Into the -- primarily into the Rockies the Niobrara the Bakken the liquids part of the Marcellus and a couple of other areas that maybe haven't hit the radar screen yet.
Our final question comes from David Anderson with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Can I just get a little clarity on your capacity additions in North America on pressure pumping? You're just growing at a slower pace in '12 is that -- or is it going to be flat versus '11? Well the amount of horsepower that we will be producing is going to be flat on a year-over-year basis.
There'll be more going into international than we did in 2011 which then means that there will be a fewer amount of horsepower going into North America.
The numbers go up on a year-over-year basis because of the manufacturing of the Q10 pump which is in full production as we speak and then as well as the addition of other kit to go along with that the replacement of blenders and the SandCastle and other equipment that's part and parcel to our frac-of-the-future strategy.
Research Division</strong> Now should we interpret this as your views that the market is getting closer to being in balance? Or is this just -- or is this somewhat of a reaction to what's happening in natural gas? How should we interpret that? I think one of the things that we should respond to there is the fact that particularly with the Q10 pump and some of our other capital investments that Mark mentioned here the SandCastle's ADP blenders et cetera much more efficient set of assets.
And the Q10 pump in particular is going to be very substantially more efficient than the current fleet.
So we just -- we'll not need to put as many assets into the marketplace to cover the same territory.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess one last question.
People have been asking about artificial lift for the last 5 years and you finally do an acquisition on Global Oilfield Services.
Can you talk a little bit about it? Does this fully address your needs in artificial lift? And can you talk a little bit about kind of the strengths of this business and where you think you need to build out more? We certainly have talked about artificial lift for a long time specifically ESPs.
And Global is an opportunity for us to enter that segment for us to extract knowledge and continue to build that business.
It's a relatively small business today and one which we have a long horizon on to build its capability and expand it into other areas of artificial lift but pleased to have it under our belt.
Okay.
Thanks everybody for your participation.
And Sean you can go ahead and close out the call.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This does conclude the conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Halliburton First Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Conference.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Kelly Youngblood Senior Director Investor Relations.
Please begin.
Good morning and welcome to the Halliburton First Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
Today's call is being webcast and a replay will be available on Halliburton's website for 7 days.
The press release announcing the first quarter results is available on the Halliburton website.
Joining me today are: Dave Lesar CEO; Mark McCollum CFO; and Tim Probert President Strategy and Corporate Development.
I would like to remind our audience that some of today's comments may include forward-looking statements reflecting Halliburton's view about future events and their potential impact on performance.
These matters involve risk and uncertainties that could impact operations and financial results and cause our actual results to materially differ from our forward-looking statements.
These risks are discussed in Halliburton's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2011 and recent current reports on Form 8-K.
Our comments include non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures is included in the press release announcing the first quarter results which as I have mentioned can be found on our website.
During the quarter we recorded a $300 million charge which amounts to $190 million after tax or $0.20 per diluted share for estimated loss contingencies related to the Macondo well incident.
In our discussion today we will be excluding the impact of this charge on our financial results.
As always we will welcome questions after we complete our prepared remarks.
Dave? Thank you Kelly and good morning to everyone.
I'm very pleased to report the following results that were achieved in the first quarter.
Total revenue of $6.9 billion and operating income of $1.3 billion represents growth over the first quarter of 2011 of 30% and 63% respectively which I believe demonstrates how well we have executed against our targeted investment strategies.
These are very strong results especially considering the industry disruptions in North America related to rig movements and the harsh weather we experienced in the Eastern Hemisphere in Q1.
Despite these challenges we achieved record revenue during the first quarter in our North America region.
Globally both our cementing and Baroid product lines achieved record revenues in the first quarter with cementing also setting a record for operating income.
Looking at the North America results for the first quarter.
Our revenue grew sequentially by 1% compared to a U.S.
rig count decline of 1%.
Now while 1% seems small it's actually the net impact of a significant rig shift that is taking place in the U.S.
between natural gas and oil.
And operating income was down sequentially by 5% driven by the inefficiencies associated with equipment relocations cost inflation and certain pricing pressures in certain basins.
Last quarter we spoke in detail about the disruptions resulting from rig movements between basins.
Depressed natural gas prices have accelerated the shift from natural gas to oil plays during the quarter.
In the U.S.
the natural gas rig count declined 151 rigs or 19% just since the beginning of the year.
And that slightly outpaced the oil-directed rig count increase of 125 rigs or 10% over the same period.
So while the total rig count only declined 1% the shift from natural gas to oil was dramatic and disruptive to operations.
In our fourth quarter call we talked about 8 frac fleets moving from primarily natural gas plays to liquids plays.
We now have an additional 5 fleets that have moved or are in the process of moving this quarter.
Due to the stability of oil prices oils in the liquid-rich plays are generating higher returns for our customers.
This shift is very positive for us as completing these wells requires higher levels of service intensity due to the advanced fluid and completion technologies which creates an additional opportunity for us to differentiate ourselves from our competition.
While these moves are beneficial to us in the long run they do not come without a short-term impact on our margins.
With spot natural gas prices down approximately 50% from this time last year due to the resiliency of natural gas productions in a very mild winter so at the current prices we expect to see further declines in the natural gas rig count until we begin to see a meaningful decrease in production levels.
Over time we believe any future weakness in natural gas rig count will be offset by an increase in oil and liquids-rich activity resulting in an overall yearly percentage increase in the U.S.
rig count in the mid-single-digits.
Also on our last call we provided our outlook for North America margins for the first quarter.
Our revenue was strong this quarter due to better-than-expected activity levels.
But our margins were just below our expectations given that the drop-off in natural gas rig count was more pronounced than we anticipated.
Continued significant cost inflation also negatively impacted our margins.
As a reminder there is often a delay between vendor price increases and when we are able to pass these increases to our customers.
In the natural gas basins in particular this is becoming more difficult and we are working with our vendors for price relief.
However this will take time and may continue to impact margins throughout the remainder of 2012.
As we renew contracts and win new work we expect to see frac pricing become more challenging but the impact will vary by basin.
The dry natural gas basins will be the most challenged followed by those more easily accessible oily basins that are located close to natural gas basins such as the Eagle Ford.
We expect pricing pressure in some of these markets in the near term but believe that these pressures will decline over the remainder of the year.
On the other hand our other product service lines continue to have relatively stable pricing.
I would like to review some of the key differentiators that I believe make us unique and should continue to enable us to outperform our competition in North America.
First I want to recognize our supply chain organization whose efforts over the past few years have positioned us well for the current industry challenges.
In the 2009 downturn when many of our peers halted new investment we recognized the structural changes that were incurring in the North American market.
We continued to manufacture new equipment build logistical infrastructure and develop strong relationships with key suppliers and lock in critical supply agreements.
In some cases we actually provided funding to assist our suppliers with their own internal expansion needs so they could meet our supply requirements.
Our leading market position and long-term commitment to North America have helped us secure supplies for key commodities in a very tight market which has enabled us to minimize supply and logistical disruptions to our customers.
The shift of rigs from natural gas to oil has amplified supply chain issues for the industry.
We recognize that we are not immune to these challenges.
However we believe our supply chain organization gives us a distinct advantage that should allow us to effectively outperform our competition in 2012.
To make our logistics process more efficient we have been constructing transloading facilities in key basins that transfer materials directly from railcars to truck or storage.
This reduces our overall transportation to merge costs and improves our efficiencies and allows us to better serve our customers.
We strongly believe we will continue to be able to provide our customers with the proppants guar and other materials they require to be successful as they expand their activities toward oil.
I do not believe that many of our competitors can make this statement.
In particular guar which is a thickening agent used in certain fracturing treatments is expected to be in scarce supply this year.
And although we believe we have secured enough supply for our customers there have been significant cost increases in guar which are negatively impacting our margins.
We are currently working to recover this increased guar cost from our customers.
To give you some idea of the magnitude of this increase the guar gel system cost alone can now represent more than 30% of the total frac price to our customer in certain basins.
Additionally we expect to see some vendor price relief in the second half of the year on our proppant costs.
Also customer relationships and mix are very important differentiators.
Over the past few years we have carefully aligned ourselves with operators that are running large-scale operations and whose focus is on reliability and value and not just price.
We believe we have successfully proven that our superior service quality reliability and efficiency make us the preferred service company.
Price competition today is most pronounced in the transactional market which we have and will continue to generally avoid.
We acknowledge that we are not immune to pricing pressures either.
But as contracts renew we believe we will continue to get superior margins due to our customer mix.
In addition a high percentage of our crews provide 24/7 operations.
This is a win-win scenario for us and our customers.
Our customers recognize our ability to provide them with a manufacturing-type efficiency model which ultimately reduces their overall completion cost.
This generally enables us to obtain superior margins compared to our peers.
Through this efficiency and incremental capacity we are now able to provide services to customers that we could not get to in the past and I believe will actually result in a market share increase without us having to discount price on a relative basis.
And lastly we continue to expand our capabilities and drive efficiency through technology and redesign of our operations.
Our Frac of the Future initiative is a perfect example of how we are staying one step ahead of the competition.
We have just rolled out our first series of Q10 pumps which we believe are the most efficient and lowest-maintenance pumps in the industry.
We are also deploying smartphone technology to automate many of the tasks that are now performed manually in the industry today which we believe will improve efficiency reduce our operating costs and reduce working capital requirements.
We are also working to optimize crew size and centralize functions to be more cost-efficient.
As we have highlighted in the past and will continue to highlight these and other strategic costs have an immediate negative impact on our earnings.
However they are a future investment in continuing to differentiate ourselves in the market.
Turning to the Gulf of Mexico.
We remain optimistic about the recovery of activity and believe that margins will continue to increase as our customers adapt to new regulations and industry efficiency improves.
The increase in permit approval should lead to additional deepwater rigs arriving throughout 2012.
Our first quarter margins in the Gulf were lower than the prior quarter due to a different mix between drilling and completion-related revenue activities mainly driven by customer delays of certain completions an area where we hold the highest market share.
We are very optimistic about the future work we see in the Gulf and we have secured additional directional drilling drilling fluids wireline and completion work on a number of the new deepwater rigs coming into the Gulf and some of the rigs that are going back to work in the next few quarters.
So to summarize North America we believe increased activity of our customers due to the strong liquids prices access to capital and increase in service intensity are supportive of a healthy market for us in 2012.
However we expect continued short-term inefficiencies and therefore downward pressure on margins in the near term due to the shift in our equipment commodity price mix and pricing pressure and the spring breakup in Canada.
We currently expect these transitory disruptions to decrease the second half of 2012.
Also to be noted I believe the growing scope of our Canadian business is underestimated due to the size of our U.S.
business.
I'm pleased to say that Canada is expected to deliver a $1 billion revenue stream for us this year and is a good contributor to our North American profitability.
Therefore we expect to be impacted by the spring breakup in this year's second quarter in Canada more than we have been in the past.
So although 2012 will be challenging for North America I believe it will just be another opportunity for us to differentiate ourselves from our peers and continue to drive our strategy of superior growth margins and returns.
Now turning to our international results.
They were basically in line with our previously stated expectations.
We are very optimistic about our Latin America business this year.
Latin America posted solid results for the first quarter taking into consideration the typical first quarter impact of lower consulting and software sales as compared to the fourth quarter.
We continue to see shale development opportunities evolving.
We are excited about leveraging our expertise in unconventional resources to help our customers unlock the potential of these plays.
We delivered great production results on our Remolino field lab in Mexico and Tim will cover that in a few minutes.
Based on tendered prices that we have seen we also believe that we are well positioned to win significant incremental work on the recent bids for Brazil in wireline directional drilling and testing.
As a result we expect to incur mobilization costs in the second half of 2012 that will temporarily impact Latin American profitability.
Brazil was the largest contributor to our operating income increase over the first quarter of 2011 in Latin America and we expect it to continue to grow rapidly.
Our strategy in the Eastern Hemisphere is also playing out as expected as is evident by our revenue growth in excess of the rig count growth.
Eastern Hemisphere revenue was up 14% from the first quarter of 2011.
We continue to make progress in markets that had been negatively impacting our results and are optimistic about activity levels expanding into the second half of 2012.
For instance in East Africa we continue to see activity levels increase.
While startup costs had a negative impact on margins in 2011 we are now seeing our deepwater investment strategy begin to pay off in this important growth market.
We also took action the last few quarters to improve our profitability in our operations in the U.K.
Our efforts are now paying off there.
Despite weather-related seasonality we saw stronger operational results and are now generating healthy margins in that market.
In Iraq we continue to run 5 rigs and expect to add additional rigs and workover rigs in 2012 enabling us to improve our profitability as activity levels increase.
Overall we remain enthusiastic about the future of our Iraq operations and are pleased to be getting the past issues behind us.
In Libya production is also coming back online.
However we are still awaiting well-defined operational plans from our customers.
We do not expect to approach pre-2011 activity levels in Libya until late 2012 or 2013.
So our view of the international markets has not changed at all.
We anticipate international pricing will continue to remain competitive particular in regard to larger projects being tendered.
We continue to expect our margin improvement through 2012 as new projects ramp up.
We introduced new technology and continue to improve our results in those markets where we have made strategic investments and secured key wins over the past few years.
To give you more granularity on the financial results I'll turn it over to Mark.
Thanks Dave and good morning everyone.
Our revenue in the first quarter was $6.9 billion down 3% sequentially from the fourth quarter.
Total operating income for the first quarter was $1.3 billion down 7% sequentially.
North America revenue grew 1% while operating income declined 5% compared with the previous quarter.
As Dave mentioned inefficiencies associated with equipment relocations continuing cost inflation and pricing pressures in certain basins impacted our margins during the first quarter.
We expect disruptions related to rig movements to impact us in the near term.
And perhaps with the exception of guar we anticipate some relief from suppliers in the second half of the year related to high cost of proppants and other materials.
Due to these challenges and the negative impact of the seasonal Canadian spring breakup we expect to see lower revenues and margins dropping by 200 to 250 basis points in the second quarter.
We also now anticipate margins could drift toward the low 20 range by the end of 2012.
The market is understandably very dynamic right now.
These margin expectations depend on among other things our success in recovering inflationary cost increases from our customers and how soon the natural gas rig count levels off.
We should have a better feel for this after the second quarter.
Internationally revenue and operating income declined compared to the previous quarter driven by the traditional seasonal reduction of our international business.
In the first quarter we also usually see weather-related weakness in the North Sea and Eurasia and this year was no different.
As we look ahead we anticipate our Eastern Hemisphere margins will reach the mid- to upper-teens in the second half of 2012 and average in the mid-teens for the full year.
Now looking at our first quarter results sequentially by division.
Completion and Production revenue declined $38 million or 1% primarily due to seasonally lower Completion Tool sales and first quarter weather disruptions in the North Sea Eurasia and Australia.
Completion and Production operating income declined 5% primarily due to North American inefficiencies associated with equipment relocations and other factors that Dave mentioned earlier.
Looking at Completion and Production on a geographic basis.
North America revenue increased by 1% driven by increased activity in the U.S.
oil and liquids-rich basins and Canada.
This was partially offset by activity decreases in the U.S.
dry gas basins in the Gulf of Mexico.
Operating income declined 7% due to equipment relocations cost inflation and stimulation pricing.
In Latin America Completion and Production posted a 2% sequential decrease in revenue due to reduced submitting activity in Colombia and Mexico and lower Completion Tool sales in Brazil and Trinidad.
Operating income grew by 8% as a result of increased Boots &amp; Coots activity in Mexico and Venezuela.
In Europe/Africa/CIS Completion and Production revenue decreased 8% primarily related to lower activity in the North Sea and Eurasia due to the normal first quarter seasonal weather impact.
Operating income increased 30% due to increased Boots &amp; Coots profitability throughout almost all of Africa along with higher cementing activity in Mozambique.
Also contributing to the profit increase was higher production enhancement and cementing activity in Libya along with a collection of some of the receivables that were written off there in early 2011.
This was partially offset by seasonally lower activity in the North Sea and Russia and lower cementing and production enhancement profitability in Angola.
In Middle East/Asia Completion and Production revenue decreased by 7% primarily due to seasonally lower Completion Tool sales across the region and seasonal weather issues in Australia.
Operating income increased 2% due to increased cementing and production enhancement activity in Oman and additional Boots &amp; Coots activity in Iraq Saudi Arabia Thailand and Indonesia.
In our Drilling and Evaluation division revenue and operating income decreased primarily due to seasonally lower software and direct product sales in the first quarter as well seasonal weather disruptions in the North Sea Eurasia and Australia.
In North America Drilling and Evaluation's revenue and operating income were up 2% and 7% respectively due to higher activity in drilling fluids directional drilling and increased drillbit sales in U.S.
land as well as higher wireline activity in Canada.
These increases were partially offset by lower software sales and decreased drilling activity in the Gulf of Mexico due to scheduling delays that we expect to make up next quarter.
Drilling and Evaluation's Latin America revenue and operating income decreased primarily due to seasonally lower software sales and the normal first quarter delay in obtaining contract approvals for consulting services and software sales in Mexico as well as lower directional drilling activity in the first quarter in Mexico.
In the Europe/Africa/CIS region Drilling and Evaluation revenue and operating income were down due to the seasonally lower software sales seasonal weather impacts in the North Sea and Asia and lower drilling activity in Algeria and Angola.
This decrease was partially offset by increased drilling activity in Sub-Saharan Africa.
Drilling and Evaluation's Middle East/Asia revenue and operating income decreased due primarily to lower first quarter product sales in Asia that were partially offset by increased drilling activity in Saudi Arabia and higher project management activity in Iraq.
Our results for the first quarter reflect a $300 million accrual in Corporate and Other expense for estimated loss contingencies related to Macondo.
At the request of the court in late February we participated in a series of discussions with the magistrate judge relating to whether the multidistrict litigation or MDL could be settled.
Although those discussions did not result in a settlement we've accrued $300 million reflecting our current estimate of the loss contingencies that are probable relating to the MDL.
Our decision to take an accrual now in the amount we have recognized are based on our assessment of all of the facts and circumstances regarding the litigation at this point in time.
Although we continue to believe that we have substantial legal arguments and defenses against any liability and that BP is required to indemnify us for any losses we may ultimately incur we've determined that we can no longer conclude that a probable loss associated with the MDL is 0.
There are other contingencies related to the Macondo well incident that are reasonably possible and for which a reasonable estimate cannot currently be made.
We're constantly monitoring and evaluating developments relating to the MDL and the other Macondo-related lawsuits and investigations.
And it's possible that we may adjust our estimate of these loss contingencies in the future as new information becomes known.
Apart from the Macondo-related charge our Corporate and Other expense came in lower than expected in the first quarter due in large part to the timing of expenses related to our continued investment in our initiative to reinvent our service delivery platform in North America and to reposition our supply chain manufacturing and technology infrastructure to better support our projected international growth.
The expense related to these initiatives during the quarter totaled approximately $23 million which was slightly less than we had expected.
However the activities behind the cost are on schedule and we continue to ramp up through 2012.
We anticipate the impact of these investments will be approximately $0.02 to $0.03 per share after-tax in the second quarter.
In total we anticipate that corporate expenses will range between $110 million and $115 million per quarter for the remainder of 2012 which for the total year is in line with our previous guidance.
We anticipate that our CapEx for the year will still be in the range of $3.5 billion to $4 billion.
But we've decided to defer some of the North American pressure pumping equipment deliveries into 2013 that were originally planned for 2012.
In addition more capital will be allocated to international projects that we've recently secured or expect to win in the next couple of quarters.
We're also allocating a significant amount of capital for infrastructure needs throughout the globe and in support of growth of our recent acquisitions.
And finally our effective tax rate was 32.3% for the first quarter but the average rate was helped by the higher U.S.
tax rate that was applied to the Macondo-related charge.
We currently expect the full year 2012 effective tax rate will be approximately 33% to 34% in line with the normalized rate we saw in the first quarter.
Tim? Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
As Dave outlined earlier on the call we've been very consistent in our outlook for our international markets where we continue to expect gradual activity improvement based on meaningful increments in customer spending patterns and corresponding new rig arrivals.
Growth drivers for us in the international markets revolve around the execution of our strategy in deepwater mature assets and unconventionals.
In deepwater we continue to be pleased with our positioning.
And globally the deepwater services market is expected to grow by approximately 20% per year through 2015 with exploration spending growing 4% annually and development growing by 35% annually.
And as this shift gets underway we feel that Halliburton's well positioned to participate in all established and emerging markets.
In East Africa for example there are now 5 deepwater rigs running compared to just 1 this time last year.
And our new basins in Mozambique and Tanzania are now well established as a platform for long-term development there.
Establishing a stronger position in deepwater for our wireline and testing services has been a priority for us both in terms of technology development and market positioning.
In addition to wins in East Africa the logging package fee win for Petrobras in Brazil is a positive indication of our credibility in this market.
We also believe as Dave mentioned we're well positioned for the deepwater drilling and testing tenders in Brazil.
In mature assets our customers continue to look for assistance in evaluating planning and executing redevelopment programs.
In Mexico for example our customer PEMEX took a thoughtful approach to redevelopment in Chicontepec.
Our Remolino field lab generated an improved understanding of the subsurface and combined with new technology applications and joint team work is delivering outstanding results.
The PA-1565 well that Halliburton drilled had an initial production above 3 800 barrels a day and delivered cumulative production equivalent to over 20 average wells in the region.
This is a model which is being applied in other mature assets in Latin America Africa the Middle East and Asia and one which we expect to have a positive business impact in the latter half of this year and into 2013.
Halliburton's EquiFlow Autonomous Inflow Control Device is a key technology to facilitate mature asset development and has been introduced in several wells in Latin America and the Middle East.
It's a 2012 Offshore Technology Conference Spotlight on New Technology Award winner and is a simple reliable device developed to address problems of unwanted water or gas production and solves the problems of inefficiency in current inflow device designs.
International unconventional development continues to provide increasing levels of encouragement to us.
Halliburton has active frac spreads in Poland Argentina Mexico Australia Saudi and elsewhere which is allowing us to build the requisite basin and subsurface expertise necessary for successful execution and is building a strong foundation for future growth.
We're also pleased with the recently signed Framework Agreement between PETRONAS Carigali and Halliburton for the evaluation and development of global shale resources.
This collaboration is expected to leverage our technology and expertise to enable PETRONAS to quickly gain experience in shale development.
We plan to work with them to set up a Shale Technical Centre of Excellence in Kuala Lumpur.
Dave? Okay thanks Tim.
Let me just quickly summarize and then we'll go to questions.
We're very proud of the results that we delivered in the first quarter with double-digit percentage growth in the first quarter of 2012 in all geographies in most product lines.
In North America the impact of inefficiencies from rigs moving from natural gas to oily basins to pricing pressure and cost inflation will impact our profitability in 2012.
We plan to mitigate these impacts through continued focus on execution efficient supply chain management and cost recovery from our customers.
We remain very optimistic about our Latin America business and believe recent operational success and contract wins position us well for the future.
And we continue to be optimistic about Eastern Hemisphere where we expect our margins will continue to improve throughout the remainder of 2012.
So let's open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from David Anderson of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Well I'm sure you get a lot of questions about pressure pumping pricing.
So I guess my angle on this is I'm curious about where spot prices are now relative to the pricing on your existing term contracts.
Just wondering are spot prices now in line with term? And how would you expect those contracts to get repriced? I mean would it be a material change is it down 10%? And I guess as follow-up to that are you starting to see E&amp;Ps sign up any term contracts now? Or is it still too early? Well Dave this is Tim.
We're still 80% to 85% long-term contracts.
And so our exposure to the spot market is really quite limited.
And clearly there is as Dave pointed out a more aggressive stance in those spot markets but it's one which frankly we're just not exposed to that much.
And let me also -- Dave this is Mark.
I'd also add it definitely varies by basin in terms of the we're still signing up term contracts.
We have customers in certain of the liquids basins that are only re-signing up for term contracts they're extending the contracts that they have and they're still continuing to be at fairly good prices.
Research Division</strong> But are they lower than they were before I guess is my question.
And how much lower? Is it like a 10% is it material? In some of the oil basins the answer is no they're not lower.
Research Division</strong> And I would assume the Eagle Ford is probably the most vulnerable out of all of those? Yes.
I mean clearly its proximity to the Haynesville makes it a much more vulnerable basin.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And as a related question you were talking about your CapEx and it looks like you're on track to spend less.
But Mark it sounded like you just kind of reiterated your $3.5 billion to $4 billion number.
Just wondering if the North America market doesn't show any signs of tightening you're saying you think your second half looks a little bit better.
But if that doesn't happen would you expect spending to start -- to cut spending and maybe be below that range? And now you've got Macondo just on the rearview mirror just wondering what the thoughts are.
I mean is there a potential for a buyback here when you -- considering where your stock is trading now? If you cut CapEx maybe buy back here at $32 here? Well let me take the questions in order.
I think with regard to CapEx I still feel very confident that we're going to spend in that range of $3.5 billion to $4 billion.
What I was trying to reiterate that even though we may slowing down some of the equipment deliveries in North America there's still quite a bit infrastructure that we're building out related to our facilities the transloading facilities for sand and other activities here in the U.S.
as well as we are winning quite a bit of international tenders that are requiring incremental capital to what we had built into our original plan.
And so there is a shift of CapEx fairly immediately for mobilization into some additional international work that we're pretty excited about.
So in total I don't see a big shift and it's difficult for me to see based on the outlook right now that we would step down meaningfully from the CapEx number.
Now towards your second question.
We accrued something on Macondo.
It's one of those that based on our evaluation of events that had transpired through the course of the quarter we felt the need to do that under U.S.
GAAP.
However I would say that we're a long way from having Macondo behind us.
I mean right now we are still in litigation mode.
There's still a fairly uncertain calendar as to when events around Macondo will take place.
And so until such time as Macondo is dealt with in its entirety I think it's going to be difficult for us to strategize on what other kind of corporate initiatives we might do with regard to any excess cash that we might have.
Our next question comes from James West of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Mark quick question for you on North American margins.
So we've got another decline in the second quarter 200 250 basis points.
And then you alluded to margins perhaps dropping into the low 20% range I think in the second half.
Correct me if I'm wrong on that.
Yes.
It's sort of the trend toward the end of the year is what I'm alluding to.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So is that -- would that represent the bottom given what you see currently in North America? I mean some of that's just a mismatch between vendors and some of the pricing declines in pressure pumping.
And then is this -- are you backing off earlier statements that you guys have made that normalized margins would be more like in the mid-20s? Or is that still achievable after we kind of shake out 2012? Well to the first question that you ask I think based on what we can see today yes that low 20s feels like that that's a bottom.
But again as I mentioned there's still a lot of movement out there.
It's a very dynamic market and so we'll continue to try to adjust as we see.
I think towards your second question our comments last quarter about normalizing in the mid-20s related really to our outlook for the year of 2012.
It's difficult at this juncture given the dramatic decrease in the gas rig count and the current outlook for gas to say that we would normalize at that point there.
I mean that's – so I am -- we're kind of coming off of that earlier guidance at least with regard to 2012.
I'm not going to try to crystal-ball where we see things going in 2013.
But I do think structurally in our business when you look long term through the cycles themselves that mid-20s range is essentially where our business tends to operate.
And we are driving initiatives inside the company to reduce our cost structure in a way that can give us a fighting chance even if the market begins to flatten out toward the end of the year that we can find our way back to those mid-20s range if we execute well against our cost initiatives.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
And then just one question on the international side of the business.
Is there real spare capacity internationally right now? And if not at what point do you think we do start to see real pricing traction? Or are we just going to let the offshore drillers have all the fun here? Yes James this is Tim.
I think just really following on from one of the remarks that Mark just made now that the shift of capital to the international markets I think that's if you like a proof point really.
If there was significant excess capacity then we wouldn't be needing to move assets to the international market.
So no I would say that our general view is that obviously market-to-market it's going to be slightly different.
But in general terms no there's not a significant overhang of assets in the international markets today.
Our next question comes from Waqar Syed with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
My question relates also to deepwater.
You had mentioned a target of growing at a rate above market growth in deepwater.
I just wanted to see as we stand today where you are versus that growth plan and where do you see it could be a year from now.
This is Tim again.
Obviously we selected deepwater as an important growth market for us in which to invest because of the significant above-market growth rate of the segment itself.
And then we set ourselves a target of growing at above the market growth rate ourselves as a company.
So I think point number one is the market is really unfolding as we hoped it would.
It's going to be a very strong growth segment.
Secondly we're very pleased with our positioning.
And I think we're able to support our thesis that we're growing at a faster-than-market rate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of international shale growth what's your view right now? We've heard some mixed views out of Poland recently.
There've been some upheavals in Argentina recently.
What's your current view on that? Are you seeing -- are you more positive now on international shale development or less? Could you comment on that? Yes I think we continue to be very encouraged.
I think that we've always said that the best thing is for us to have interest in multiple markets because not all markets will be successful.
We know that.
But having a position in all major markets around the globe allows us to make sure that we're going to participate in those markets that are successful.
We continue to feel very good about shales.
I think that the truth is though to your question we're probably shifting our emphasis a little bit.
Argentina doesn't feel as positive as it probably was 6 months ago.
But Saudi Arabia feels a lot more positive than it was 6 months ago.
So I think we're starting to see if you like the 3 key factors of shales the combination of the geology the infrastructure and the pricing and regulatory environment sort of start to come to the fore.
And those that have all 3 in the right measure will be the ones that'll move forward the fastest.
Research Division</strong> So beyond Saudi Arabia how would you rank like Poland and Australia and some of the other markets? Well certainly Australia is looking strongly positive.
China's looking extremely positive.
And I wouldn't count Poland out yet.
I mean there's a relatively small number of wells primarily vertical wells I would call the sort of the frac process there to be very modest in terms of trying to establish what potential productivity would be.
So I think we still have a long way to go yet in that particular market.
Our next question comes from Jim Crandell of Dahlman Rose.
LLC Research Division</strong> My first question is in provinces in frac-ing where you have seen significant pressure on pricing is there any pressure by companies that you have long-term contracts in to renegotiate the terms of your contracts at lower prices even if you have a longer-term contract? And have you done so in any instances? Yes Jim this is Dave.
Let me answer that one.
And the answer is in those oily based areas the answer is no.
In fact we have gone generally back in because of guar prices or proppant prices to get price increases.
But we -- for the most part we wrote those contracts to be pretty tight.
So I suspect that the pressure will come when they start to roll over and we've got to look at what we can do.
But again we're selling efficiency we're selling lowest unit cost because of the efficiency.
And I think we are having a different kind of conversation with those customers than maybe some of our competitors would have to have.
LLC Research Division</strong> And that's in oil provinces Dave in the Haynesville if a long-term contract customer is asking for price relief have you done so? You know what Jim there's hardly anybody left in the Haynesville but Halliburton.
So you can read into that comment what you will.
LLC Research Division</strong> But David your comments would relate to any -- to all instances of long-term contracts across the country that they're sacrosanct and you're not lowering prices on any? No I think that we -- are we rolling pricing back on existing contracts? The answer is no the contracts that have term left on them.
Those that are coming up for tender we are having discussions about where the market pricing for long-term types of contracts are.
We are not going to spot market by any stretch of the imagination.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
David my second question sources of mine are still saying that on international tenders particularly in formation evaluation and particularly in deepwater there continues to be fierce competition in pricing.
Would you concur with that or put some -- what color would you offer on that statement? No.
I think as we said in the prepared remarks any large tenders deepwater-related that have a big formation evaluation component to them are extraordinarily competitive for a couple of reasons.
One they tend to be big dollars and they tend to be of long duration.
And so they are being fiercely fought over.
And I guess I would make an editorial comment that all of the big players are equally competitive in their pricing.
But as Tim indicated I think we're winning more than our fair share of them which is a strategy we put in front of our shareholders in our Analyst Day a couple of years ago.
That was a key part of our strategy.
I think it's paying off in places like East Africa where we did have to make infrastructure and mobilization investments.
But if you look at the margins we're making there today I'm very happy with them.
And I expect that that will continue to play out as we get these projects up and going.
So bottom line is I'm very happy with our market penetration in FE and in deepwater and in places where we have not operated before.
And we will continue that strategy.
Our next question comes from Scott Gruber of Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I'm curious as to how the activity transition in North America is impacting operational uptime looking beyond the mobilization issue.
When you look out 6 months from now will you experience an increase in operational uptime more operations on 24 hours? Or would things be about the same from here? Yes I think -- this is Dave again.
Again go back to what we said.
We are primarily a 24/7 operation view our frac position in the U.S.
as being more one akin to a manufacturing operation.
And absent the dislocation of crews which obviously have an impact on uptime and downtime we don't move a crew unless we know where it's going we know what customer it's working for and we know the price that it's going to work at.
So we don't incur a cost to basically pick them up and move them somewhere without knowing what the financial impact is going to be.
I would say that that's not true with a lot of our competition who are being chased out of some of these basins like the Haynesville and those crews are going basically looking around for work.
And that's why the transactional market pricing is so disruptive today.
But as we said that's not a market that we generally play in.
So when we say we're moving a fleet it's not going looking for work.
It knows where it's going knows who it's working for and knows the price that it's going to work at.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And does the 24-hour uptime extend to the Permian as well? It's just starting to go there.
And that's actually a great question because typically the Permian Basin has not been a market where the operators saw the need to have 24-hour operations.
But we have actually gone to 24-hour operations with some of the bigger players out there and have demonstrated to them the efficiency of it.
Now that's caused some disruption within the operators because they've had to change their work practices their completion practices.
But as it's gotten more competitive out there they've seen the benefits of it.
But even in a market that's traditionally not 24 hours it's starting to basically embrace it.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Great.
That's very encouraging.
Last question on Canada appreciate the color.
In terms of growth CapEx in North America I assume Canada's going to continue to be a focus as you build out that position.
No absolutely Scott.
We -- not only -- there's some infrastructure capital that we're deploying there.
We're focused on the extension of the Bakken into Southern Canada there and building out there but also helping in our infrastructure around sand logistics and things like that.
We tend to view Canada -- I mean even though it's a separate country we tend to view capital deployed for rolling stock and things like that as a bit fungible between the U.S.
and Canada.
And so during breakup oftentimes we'll move things back and forth to make sure that we maintain very high efficiency levels for those crews.
Our next question comes from Bill Herbert of Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> A question on the cost inflation.
Dave for a couple quarters here we've been talking about the lead lag here between incurring costs from vendors and being able to pass them through to the customer and with increasing difficulty I guess in dry gas plays.
But in due course you seem to foreshadow an ability to do that.
I'm curious as to actually with regard to the cost of the raw material itself guar proppants what-have-you.
At what point do these headwinds with regard to margins become tailwinds with regard to the raw material itself becoming less expensive with more supply? Yes.
I think certainly on guar we've not reached that point.
And yes we clearly are able to on things like guar with some lag get that cost passed through to our customer.
The problem with guar it's probably the fastest-moving commodity price that I've ever seen.
I mean basically we might give a quote today that's 10% higher than a quote we would've got last week on it.
So it is such a dynamic that we don't like to and don't want to go back to our customers multiple times to get price increases.
So we try to get it stabilized within a certain area then go back to the customer and basically put it through as a pass-through item.
But that is the one because of the scarcity at this moment in time -- and we do believe that it's actually a bit of a spot price scarcity due to sort of the growing season for guar which is primarily grown in India and when the new crop will become available which should be in the fall and then we see maybe see some of the scarcity going away.
And also obviously we like the rest of industry are looking for alternatives to guar and we are having some customers accept either lower-grade guar or alternatives to guar that while maybe not getting the well response they want at least they are getting something at a cheaper price.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And do you think -- I mean I know it's difficult to sort of foreshadow at this juncture.
But do you think it's a reasonable expectation to expect that the guar cost inputs in 2013 will probably be less than what they are today? Based on everything we know right now that's a reasonable expectation.
Yes.
I think also Bill the fact of the matter is is that guar substitutes become attractive at a certain guar price.
We're at that price right now.
So guar substitutes whether or not that's Halliburton's CleanStim technology for example which is certainly a substitute which has been used effectively in a number of basins including the Eagle Ford or other substitutes will become effective and will essentially create some sort of ceiling on the price of guar.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Second question I mean everybody I guess justifiably seems to be focused on what's going wrong as opposed to what can go right in a category of what can go right.
With regard to the likely uplift in activity in the Wolfcamp activity plus a step change increase in service intensity coupled with the ongoing evolution of the Utica and other plays how do you think the industry is positioned today from a capacity standpoint to meet that demand call it 2 or 3 years down the road? Yes I think a couple of points there Bill.
I think number one I mean clearly the industry has a history of responding to the need.
I don't particularly see that as being a primary concern.
And so I think that if you take a look at where we are today as we outlined what we're planning on is a modest single-digit increase in activity through the year.
Now that's the basis for the guidance that we provided.
And clearly there is a scenario where we have a significantly increased volume of activity in oil-based plays.
If that takes place then clearly we have a much more robust outlook than we currently have.
But we provided you a scenario based on our best guess which is [indiscernible].
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then last one you touched on this but I didn't get a sense as to order of magnitude.
Frac of the Future initiatives one are they tracking as expected and targeted? And two when do you expect those to begin to exert a significant impact with regard to your North American profitability? So there are a number of elements to Frac of the Future all aimed at a variety of elements around reduced personnel reduced capital deployment et cetera and improved efficiency.
Probably the largest single element of that is the rollout of our Q10 pump which is now rolling off the line.
And we will make that together with our new blending and storage capacities.
And we have a deployment plan which will give us the ability to compare very effectively between existing fleets and our new Frac of the Future fleets so we can get a real good handle on both capital deployment and people deployment.
We'll see those roll out during the course of this year Bill.
And towards the end of this year we'll have a very -- start to see an impact in key basins where they're deployed.
I was also going to say at the back-office initiatives the mobility plans are all designed to roll out late Q2 and Q3 which really means that you're going to see the meaningful part of the impact in 2013.
Research Division</strong> And the leaning out of the frac crews we still expect to see an overall sort of reduction of about 25% on average with regard to the employees attributable to your frac crews? Yes Bill that's still the target.
Part of that will be achieved through the rollout of these new pumps and the blending units and other things that allow us to do less maintenance out on location.
The other thing will also be the mobility plan helps us in achieving more of our remote operations initiative which again will be later in 2013.
But in particular areas such as the gas basins our guys are very focused on leaning out those crews as we speak as the work provides for it.
Other places we're still scrambling as you might imagine and it's all hands on deck.
Our final question comes from Doug Becker of the Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I'll hit the international side a little bit but it seems like results are off to good start.
What do you think the greatest risk to meeting margin expectations in the high teens by the end of the year are? Is it more mobilization? Is it just more pricing never picking up? How would you characterize that? This is Tim.
I would say that one of the things that we have collectively been disappointed with is essentially the growth of rig count and growth of activity during the course of the last 12 months.
Year-on-year we're only up about 2% in terms of rig count.
So I would say the biggest single risk probably is more around ensuring -- well I said not that we can ensure it but it's more around the continued expected progression of rig count through the balance of the year than any other factor.
It looks good right now but we have been disappointed before by the amount of growth.
Research Division</strong> And it looks like we saw a relatively modest decline in revenue and margin in Europe/Africa/CIS.
Is the first quarter a good base for us to be thinking about a bit of a recovery a seasonal recovery in the second quarter in that market? Well clearly there'll be seasonal recovery.
You have to recall that the weather in Northern Europe on the North Sea was incredibly bad this year probably worse than it's been in a long time the exact total opposite from what we experienced in North America.
So I think that the seasonal impacts were larger than we had seen in some prior years which probably is part of what you've seen and maybe missing your potential -- your particular expectation.
But I think in that regard then we should see a better seasonal recovery from some of those areas as we go into Q2 and Q3.
Research Division</strong> That's what I was getting at.
And then just in Latin America any quantification of what the mobilization might be in the second half? Are we talking 100 200 basis point drag or something along those lines? I think a little too early to say right now.
We can provide some additional guidance on the next call.
Okay Sean we're ready to close out the call.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This does conclude the conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Halliburton Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call may be recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Kelly Youngblood.
Sir you may begin.
Good morning and welcome to the Halliburton Second Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
Today's call is being webcast and a replay will be available on Halliburton's website for 7 days.
The press release announcing the second quarter results is available on the Halliburton website.
Joining me today are Dave Lesar CEO; Mark McCollum CFO; and Tim Probert President Strategy and Corporate Development.
I would like to remind our audience that some of today's comments may include forward-looking statements reflecting Halliburton's views about future events and their potential impact on performance.
These matters involve risk and uncertainties that could impact operations and financial results and cause our actual results to materially differ from our forward-looking statements.
These risk are discussed in Halliburton's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2011 Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31 2012 and recent current reports on Form 8-K.
Our comments include non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures is included in the press release announcing the second quarter results which as I have mentioned can be found on our website.
Please note that our sequential comparisons today will exclude the $300 million charge reported in the first quarter of 2012 for estimated loss contingencies related to the Macondo well incident.
We will welcome questions after we complete our prepared remarks.
We ask that you please limit yourself to 1 question and 1 related follow-up to allow more time for others who have questions.
Dave? Thank you Kelly and good morning to everyone.
We certainly had a lot of moving parts in the second quarter but I was pleased with the overall final outcome.
Total revenues of $7.2 billion were a new company record for us.
This represented a 5% growth sequentially and was the direct result of all 3 of our international regions achieving record revenues as well as us being able to leverage our #1 market position in North America to outperform the competition once again in terms of total revenue growth.
Before we go into the details of the quarter I would like to remind everyone of our ongoing global strategy: to maintain our market-leading position in the U.S.; gain market share in the international markets; and deliver industry-leading revenue growth and returns.
By any measure whether sequentially year-to-date or year-on-year we are successfully executing on this strategy.
Now let's look at our performance.
From a global product line perspective we achieved record revenues during the quarter in 8 of our 12 product lines and in Cementing Completion Tools Multi-Chem Testing and Subsea we achieved new records in both revenue and operating income.
Operating income of $1.2 billion declined 9% sequentially primarily due to cost issues in our North American production-enhancement business which we expect to work through by the end of the year as I will discuss shortly.
International operating income was up 31% sequentially from activity and pricing improvements in all regions.
Let's look first at our North American results for the quarter.
Compared to a rig count decline of 17% our sequential revenues were essentially flat.
The Canadian rig count dropped 70% sequentially due to the seasonal spring breakup.
The U.S.
rig count declined 1% but our U.S.
revenue actually grew 3% sequentially.
As you know we saw a continued shift from natural gas to oil-directed activity during the quarter.
The U.S.
natural gas rig count declined 18% from the first quarter and is currently down 42% from its high in October of 2011.
This represents a low point in the natural gas rig count over the last decade.
However the majority of the drop in gas rigs to date has been offset by an increase in oil and liquids-driven activity as our customers had shifted their budgets toward basins with better economics.
Our North American operating income was down 19% sequentially driven by 4 factors.
In descending order of impact these factors were guar cost inflation which I'll talk about a few minutes; the Canadian spring breakup; pricing pressures that are isolated to our production-enhancement product line; and efficiency disruptions associated with ongoing equipment locations.
The impact of guar cost inflation was dramatic this quarter and we expect it to continue to impact our production-enhancement results throughout the rest of this year.
Our U.S.
business is a well-functioning machine and we did not want that machine to miss a beat.
We are recognized as having a reputation for the best execution reliability in the industry and are the largest 24-hour operation of any supplier in the industry.
Since we were unwilling to compromise this reputation we made a strategic decision that on top of our normal guar purchases that we would procure a large reserve of guar based on the demand we saw in the market coming out of the first quarter.
At that time rising customer requirements in the oil and gas basins was driving up demand for gel-based systems and the elevated commodity prices at that time supported our ability to push price increases to our customers in order to counter the incremental higher input costs of our guar.
For us the equation was a simple one.
Having the frac spread that made a  20% margin using higher-priced guar was better than the one that made no margin because we had no guar to pump.
So during the quarter we were able to meet all of our customer needs and in a number of cases we were able to catch jobs our competitors could not get to because they lacked the supply of guar.
This enabled us to take market share while demonstrating to these customers why they can rely on Halliburton when supply chains get stretched.
Today supply concerns around guar have eased and spot prices have declined but costs remain high relative to historical levels.
Furthermore the decline in oil and gas prices in the second quarter have made our customers more reluctant to accept price increases to cover our incremental guar costs.
Because of the large reserve of extra guar inventory we have on hand our results will reflect an even higher average cost of sales impact over the remainder of this year as we work through our supply of this higher-than-average cost guar.
At this point there is no shortage of guar but most of the industry will have to work down their inventories of their higher-priced product.
So with 20-20 hindsight simply put we made the wrong decision.
The result is we bought too much guar too early and paid too much for it.
We should not have purchased the extra inventory.
The impact was dramatic in the second quarter as we absorbed these higher prices and even more so in the third and fourth quarter as we work off the inventory.
I want to be clear with you I supported and agreed with the decision to secure the strategic guar reserve and I will take the heat for it.
Now let me give you some additional data on the impact guar will have in 2012.
In the second quarter about 2/3 of our North America margin compression was due to the impact of escalating guar costs which rose approximately 75% from the first quarter.
As we go into the third quarter traditionally our busiest quarter in North America we expect our total guar costs will rise an additional 25% over the second quarter as we work off our high-cost reserve and then costs should reduce as we close the year.
Keep in mind that while the market price for guar has dropped and supply is readily available spot purchases made today could not be delivered to the industry for nearly 2.5 months due to grinding and shipping times.
We currently anticipate future guar pricing will decline but the situation is still volatile.
Spot prices for unprocessed guar splits fluctuated more than 30% just last week alone as the market reacted to the monsoon weather outlook.
And depending on how the monsoon season plays out our current excess guar supply may in fact become a strategic asset for us in North America if this year's crop falls short.
But to help protect us against these issues in the future we are actively developing alternatives to guar which Tim will talk about later.
Moving on to pricing pressures.
We saw some impact to frac pricing in the quarter.
While spot frac pricing in the dry natural gas basins was under siege in the second quarter it now appears to be leveling off in many cases because there are so few competitors left in these basins today.
We are also seeing increasing pressure in the oil and liquids markets as we negotiate the renewals of existing stimulation contracts and win new market share.
In contrast the majority of our other product lines continue to maintain relatively stable pricing.
Now we continue to add new equipment in North America to support our Frac of the Future initiative.
This quarter marked the first of our new Q10 fleets being deployed and they are already surpassing expectations in terms of well site performance efficiency and maintenance.
In the event that the market does deteriorate to where we are not earning our cost of capital we would likely idle or retire older fleets and continue to bring new fleets out and build up our Q10 operations.
Most importantly I believe for you to note is that today our total frac fleet remains fully utilized.
Every truck we build is committed to a customer before it comes off the line.
And where an existing customer has reduced demand for our services in a particular basin we have been successful at displacing the competitor on other work for either that same customer or for a new customer we could not get to in the past.
Our strategy in this environment has been and will continue to be to take advantage of our market position differentiated technology a more complete set of product offerings and the general flight to quality which appears to be underway.
Historically this has resulted in market share gains during the downturn which we have positively then leveraged during the ensuing up cycle.
We see no reason for it to be different this time and our second quarter versus our competitors certainly bears that out.
The continued migration of equipment from the gas to oil basins also means we continue to incur some lost revenue opportunities and mobilization costs with these moves.
Looking ahead to the balance of the year we still expect to see a modest reduction in the gas rig count as operators focus on basins with better economics.
We believe that despite recent improvements in natural gas spot prices downward pressure will continue throughout the injection season.
Oil and liquids-rich drilling has mostly offset recent reductions in gas rigs and the majority of our customer base remains committed to previously stated activity levels.
However we believe that recent volatility in oil and softness in natural gas liquids may prompt certain customers to adopt a more cautious tone toward the timing of their drilling and completion activities.
As we look to 2013 for U.S.
land we are optimistic that land activity will continue to strengthen led by a growth in unconventional developments in oil basins such as the Eagle Ford and the Bakken where we are very well aligned with the long-term asset owners.
In addition we will have worked the higher-priced guar out of our inventory and expect to be replacing it with more normally priced inventories.
In this environment our North American margins can return to their normalized levels.
Turning now to the Gulf of Mexico.
We continue to see activity recover and our 2Q margins are now at pre-moratorium levels.
We are optimistic about the work that we have won in directional drilling fluids wireline completions and other product service lines for the new deepwater rigs arriving in the Gulf over the next few quarters.
We expect that this will translate into a higher market share relative to our historical level and also believe that margins will continue to strengthen as our customers adapt to new regulations and industry efficiency improves.
Moving on to our international results.
We are very pleased with the market share gains that we have made.
We continue to outperform our competition in terms of revenue growth and we are now seeing margins begin to climb as we execute our strategy around economies of scale new market entries and selective price increases and of course the introduction of new technology.
I think it's important to note that while North America market share can fluctuate more rapidly the market share that we have captured internationally is longer term in nature as it provides a strong incumbent position for many years to come.
This is why we have been so focused on gaining international share.
We continue to be very optimistic about our Latin America business where we posted another solid quarter.
Revenue was up 13% sequentially compared to a 1% gain in the rig count.
In Brazil and therefore for Latin America our margins were impacted as we incurred cost to mobilize for our recent award of the wireline package.
We also believe we are well-positioned to win significant incremental work on the recent bids for both directional drilling and testing in Brazil which should position us well in the future.
Additionally we expect our margins for consulting and software services in Latin America to expand in the second half of the year just as they've done in prior years.
Our consistent strategy in the Eastern Hemisphere is playing out positively as well as evidenced by the record revenues achieved this quarter and by our improving margins.
Eastern Hemisphere revenue was up 15% sequentially relative to a rig count gain of 5%.
If you look back a year our revenues are up 23% from the second quarter of 2011 on only an 8% increase in rig count.
We continue to make progress in markets that had previously been negatively impacting our results and are optimistic about activity levels expanding in the second half of 2012.
Europe/Africa/CIS had a strong recovery from the first quarter.
The Europe and Eurasia areas as a whole are now generating margins higher than our current Eastern Hemisphere average.
Libya continues to recover while the investment and restructuring efforts made last year in other parts of Africa continue to pay off.
We are particularly pleased with the rapid ramp-up of our East Africa operations where margins are also above our Eastern Hemisphere averages.
Across the region our service quality and technology are being recognized by our customers.
In the U.K.
our exceptional performance with Sperry geosteering has led to takeaways from a competitor.
And based on relative performance against 2 of our large peers another customer singled out Halliburton for our superior wireline technology.
And in Tanzania our formation evaluation team was recognized by a customer for their performance.
And in Russia we were awarded team of the year by another large IOC customer recognizing our ongoing commitment to safety and service quality.
In the Middle East/Asia we recovered well from the seasonal weather experienced by Australia in the prior quarter and China activity rebounded sharply from seasonably low levels in the first quarter.
Compared to the second quarter of last year operating income across the region is up 59% highlighted by a 72% improvement in Asia Pac countries.
During the quarter we completed our second multistage frac operation onshore in Australia and are optimistic about this growing unconventional market.
Overall our outlook for the international markets has not changed.
We have always believed it would be slow and steady and now that seems to be the consensus among our peers.
We believe international activity will continue to grow steadily which is beginning to translate into longer-term pricing improvement.
Near term we expect that overall margin expansion will result from volume increases as our new projects ramp up new technologies are introduced and as we continue to improve results in those markets where we have made strategic investments.
We are increasingly confident that our 2012 Eastern Hemisphere exit margins will be in the upper teens and that we will average around 15% for the year.
We remain optimistic about the long-term global demand picture in commodity prices despite the various economic uncertainties that are weighing on the global hydrocarbon demand picture in the short run.
Supply disruptions including Iranian sanctions and lower-than-anticipated production levels in Iraq Libya and Brazil continue to pressure supply levels and the capacity in the global liquids market is still relatively tight.
Continued demand growth in non-OECD countries the declining production in mature fields and rising marginal cost of production all support the long-term fundamentals of our service business.
So going forward we will continue to focus on maintaining our leadership position in North America strengthen our international margins and growing our market share in deepwater in underserved international markets.
Additionally we believe we are well positioned to capture market share in the expanding international unconventional business by leveraging our technology and expertise that we developed in North America.
I believe our revenue growth on a relative basis has proved that strategy out for this quarter.
Now let me turn it over to Mark for some more color on the financial results.
Thanks Dave and good morning.
Our revenue in the second quarter was $7.2 billion up 5% sequentially from the first quarter.
Total operating income for the second quarter was $1.2 billion down 9% from the previous quarter after normalizing for the first quarter Macondo-related charge.
North America revenue remained flat and operating income decreased 19% compared to the previous quarter.
As Dave mentioned guar cost inflation was the most significant driver combined with the impact of Canadian breakup frac pricing pressures and equipment relocation.
Excluding Canada we expect these challenges will contribute to incrementally lower margins for the remainder of the year.
We believe the majority of the margin impact will result from working through our higher-cost guar inventory and additional pricing pressure for hydraulic fracturing.
Internationally revenue and operating income increased 15% and 31% respectively compared to the previous quarter driven by the seasonal recovery of our international business market share gains and to a lesser extent improved pricing.
Looking at our second quarter results sequentially by division.
Completion and Production revenue increased 4% while operating income fell 12%.
North America cost issues drove the lower profitability but were partially offset by stronger results in our international regions.
On a geographic basis Completion and Production revenue in North America was flat sequentially as increased activity in the Gulf of Mexico and U.S.
land oil and liquids basins was offset by lower revenues in Canada due to the seasonal breakup.
Operating income declined by 21% primarily due to the cost and pricing issues that are currently impacting our production-enhancement product line.
The decline in U.S.
land was partially offset by the Gulf of Mexico where operating income more than doubled from the first quarter.
In Latin America Completion and Production posted an 11% sequential increase in revenue due to additional production-enhancement activity in Argentina and Mexico and increased cementing activity in Mexico and Venezuela.
Operating income remained relatively flat however.
The increased activity was offset by higher costs for Boots &amp; Coots in Mexico and Cementing in Argentina during the quarter.
In Europe/Africa/CIS Completion and Production revenue increased 21% and operating income increased 67% primarily related to the rebound of activity following seasonal weather issues in the first quarter.
All product lines had improved revenue and the majority had decreased profitability compared to the preceding quarter.
The operating income increase was led by improved Completion Tool sales across the region increased Boots &amp; Coots profitability in Angola and improved Eurasia production-enhancement and cementing activity.
In Middle East/Asia Completion and Production revenue and operating income increased by 16% and 40% respectively.
Australia had increased -- increases across all product lines as activity recovered from seasonal weather issues in the first quarter and we saw a healthy increase in activity across all product lines in Saudi Arabia.
Also contributing to the sequential increase was higher Completion Tools sales in Indonesia Brunei and the U.A.E.
and increases in production-enhancement activity in Malaysia and Qatar.
In our Drilling and Evaluation division revenue and operating income increased 8% and 7% respectively led by record revenue in our Baroid Testing and Subsea and Wireline and Perforating product lines.
From a geographic perspective performance was driven by increased Testing and Subsea activity and sales in Mexico and China as well as increased directional drilling activity in Venezuela.
In North America Drilling and Evaluation revenue remained relatively flat while operating income decreased 13% primarily due to lower directional drilling in Wireline and Perforating services in Canada due to the seasonal breakup and the migration of drilling activity from gas to oil and liquids-rich basins in U.S.
land.
This decrease was partially offset by improved fluids activity in the Gulf of Mexico.
Drilling and Evaluation's Latin America revenue and operating income increased 14% and 25% respectively due to higher Wireline and Perforating activity in Colombia Mexico and Brazil; additional Testing and Subsea work in Mexico; as well as increased directional drilling activity in Venezuela and Ecuador.
In the Europe/Africa/CIS region Drilling and Evaluation revenue and operating income increased 9% and 60% respectively due to increased directional drilling throughout most of the region higher demand for fluids in Norway and some wireline direct sales into Poland.
Drilling and Evaluation's Middle East/Asia revenue and operating income increased by 17% and 11% respectively.
China led the increase across multiple products -- product lines.
We were also -- we also had improved performance in Australia Brunei India Kuwait and Saudi Arabia.
Partially offsetting these improvements were higher costs related to our Majnoon project in Iraq.
Our Corporate and Other expense was $106 million this quarter and includes cost for our continued investment in various strategic initiatives.
The expense related to these initiatives during the quarter totaled approximately $29 million.
We anticipate the quarterly impact of these investments will increase slightly in the second half of the year to approximately $0.03 per share after-tax.
In total we anticipate that corporate expenses will range between $105 million and $110 million per quarter for the remainder of 2012.
In response to the increased globalization of our business one of the key strategic initiatives that we've been focused on is a realignment of our international operations to better position us for improved delivery of our products and services to our international customers closer alignment to our international supply base more efficient use of our technology and an overall reduction of our costs.
Some of the indirect outcomes that we expect out of this transformational initiative will be an increase in our international earnings and the related reduction of our effective tax rate in future years.
We expect to complete the first stage of this realignment in the second half of the year.
Our effective tax rate was 32% for the second quarter.
And including the impact of this realignment initiative we currently expect the full year 2012 effective tax rate will be approximately 32% to 33%.
During the quarter our cash balance was reduced by approximately $500 million driven in part by the increase in cost and volume of our guar inventory.
Our higher level of revenues also contributed to increased receivables.
We currently expect this working capital increase to turn during the back half of the year and maintaining our cash flow discipline continues to be an important part of our strategy.
We anticipate that our capital expenditures for the year will now be in the range of $3.6 billion to $3.8 billion.
We're directing more of our CapEx spend toward international projects due to recent and expected contract wins.
Based on the strength of the long-term fundamentals of our business we feel very comfortable maintaining investments at this level.
Tim? Well thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
To begin with I want to follow up on the guar alternative Dave mentioned earlier.
We successfully introduced a new product during the quarter in response to the escalating costs and the uncertainty of supply associated with guar.
Our newly introduced PermStim fluid system follows in the footsteps of CleanStim our frac fluid sourced entirely from the food industry.
PermStim delivers the proppant carrying capacity of a guar-based gel but with the advantage that it's engineered to provide a residue-free channel when the gel's broken enhancing the hydrocarbon flow.
We pumped well over 500 stages in the Rockies Mid-Con and South Texas during the quarter and believe we've confirmed its premium performance characteristics relative to native guar-based gels.
We are working to ramp up production to establish it as a permanent part of our product lineup increasing the performance and the reliability of our delivery platform.
We're pleased with the execution of our international strategy and the record revenues seen in all 3 international regions this quarter.
In Middle East/Asia we've significantly expanded our offshore and deepwater position with a series of major Pan-Malaysian contract awards and extensions.
These contracts are valued at more than $700 million with services across our portfolio including drilling wireline perforating testing and completions.
In Australia as the unconventional market unfolds there operators are looking for empirical knowledge and a proven track record to help them develop their assets.
Our Pinnacle microseismic and tiltmeter technologies were successfully utilized to characterized unconventional assets for our customers in Queensland and South Australia in the quarter.
In Europe/Africa our deepwater activity in East Africa continues to grow and we're currently providing services on all deepwater rigs there with a leading position in fluid services cementing completions and drilling.
I should add that our entry into East Africa wireline markets has been successful too.
The position we've established in East Africa deepwater has provided us a platform for recent contract awards for onshore exploration areas in Ethiopia and Uganda.
In the Latin America region we reported last quarter on the delivery of the record-setting PA-1565 well in Mexico's Chicontepec basin the Remolino lab which had outstanding performance.
We followed this success completing 6 additional wells all exceeding initial production estimates as well.
During the quarter a zipper frac a stimulation of 2 separate and parallel unconventional wells was performed with Halliburton's RapidFrac sleeve technology a first in Latin America and with excellent production results.
Now as you know we are committed to growing our share internationally without sacrificing long-term margins and returns.
The latest market report from Spears and Associates indicates our share position grew last year in all major product lines except for pressure pumping.
Our Completion Tools product line is a notable success and has just taken the #1 global market share position.
This is a culmination of a multiyear effort focused on new technology development and cost and efficiency gains through an aggressive supply chain strategy.
This incorporates new roofline in Singapore and Malaysia to serve the needs of our international customers.
One highlight of the completion's growth story is our expandable liner hanger system VersaFlex which has shown 40%-plus annual growth rates over the last 3 years as it displaces standard systems and becomes our customers' preferred method of delivering liner top pressure integrity.
New completions technology is playing a part too.
We've also just deployed our new enhanced single-trip multistage completion system in the Gulf of Mexico.
Designed for use in deep and ultra deepwater the system enables several intervals within a well to be isolated and treated with a high-rate frac pack during a single trip of the workstring.
This unique technology saved this deepwater operator 18 days of rig time.
Dave? Thanks Tim.
Let me just summarize.
I know there -- a lot of people got on the call late today.
We're very proud of our second quarter results.
We've set new record -- revenue record totals for the company and in all 3 of our international regions and for 8 of our product lines.
North America.
We expect our frac margins will be compressed by higher-cost guar and additional pricing pressures.
But our other product lines however remain stable.
Internationally the story is playing out as expected.
We continue to gain share and fully expect our Eastern Hemisphere margins to be in the upper teens in the second half of the year with a full year average in the mid-teens.
And finally we intend to deliver industry-leading revenue growth and returns.
So let's open it up for questions now.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Waqar Syed of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Is there a way to quantify some of the margin impact in North America for pressure pumping and how we could be in maybe by the end of the year where could margins be? Do you see fourth quarter could the benefit from guar price declines maybe start to offset some of the seasonal declines and pricing pressures? Waqar this is Mark.
In the comments we tried to give you a little bit of color.
There's going to be a fairly significant impact for guar inventory costs as we move through the year.
As Dave said about 2/3 of our margin delta in the second quarter is related to guar costs as we look and that inflated about 75% over first quarter levels.
We expect guar to inflate another 25% in the third quarter.
And so in probably sort of relative terms that's going to end up being about 2/3 of the impact as we look forward.
That should abate as we go into Q4.
There will be some pricing impact.
We are expecting as long as there's risk to the gas rig count which we expect will continue to be pressured through the end of the injection season there will be pressure on hydraulic fracturing margins.
But there will be some benefit for Canada getting back to work as well to offset that.
So it's difficult to say exactly where that will be.
We're not going to give specific margin guidance sort of beyond that but I think that that ought to be sufficient to kind of help you find where we are.
But all of those things should be relatively transitory.
As we go into 2013 we're expecting the rig count to begin to grow again the guar cost issues to be behind us and normalized based on sort of what ought to be market industry averages.
And from there then we also should start seeing the benefits of our Frac of the Future initiative all of the things that we've been doing to try to transform the business to reduce our costs will to continue to provide some uplift to our margins as we go into 2013.
Research Division</strong> In the past you've said that you normalized margins around 25% 26% for North America.
Has anything changed in your view that at some point in 2013 you could not get back to that kind of level? No nothing's changed from that front.
We still believe that sort of that mid-20s range is our normalized area of margins.
Our next question comes from James West of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow up little bit on the North America simulation topic curious as to when you roll over contracts now are you still able to achieve pretty significant pricing I guess premiums versus your competitors? So if the market's down 20 you're only down call it 10 just to throw a number out there? And then second are your customers still asking for the same level of term contracts as they were say 3 or 6 months ago? So 2 parts to that question James.
I think first of all obviously contracts are renewing throughout the year.
That's a bit in contrast to the way it was 3 or 4 years ago when we kind of had the big renegotiations at the end of the year.
And the answer is yes we believe that we're continuing to get a premium as we renew those contracts.
That's quite clear.
And secondly in terms of the term I would say they're getting shorter.
Obviously you're in an environment when there is more uncertainty than it was when the original contracts were undertaken so it's reasonable to assume that those terms will be shorter than they were previously.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then Mark maybe...
That's not necessarily a bad thing either because if we see some recovery we have an opportunity to move things.
Research Division</strong> Sure absolutely.
That makes sense.
And then Mark I'm going to come ask a question on North American margins.
Again the gap down we saw from 1Q to 2Q was pretty significant.
There are a lot of moving parts in there but is it safe to say as we think about the rest of this year that that we've already seen kind of the biggest gap down.
Margins of course will go down as you've said but have we seen the biggest kind of at least sequential drop? Yes definitely.
Our next question comes from Angie Sedita of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Could you Tim talk a little about what you're seeing in frac pricing today? Are you seeing some areas that have starting to stabilizing -- starting to stabilize or they're still declining? And then of your term contracts on percentage terms can you say generally how much has actually rolled over at least to today's spot market prices versus still has yet to roll over? And then as you roll over your contracts has any of the terms changed besides pricing? Okay just a couple of comments on the sort of sequencing of pricing I guess.
As Dave mentioned the dry basins have been the most challenging to this point but they appear to be stabilizing.
And secondly the next in the sequence was the more accessible oily basins which received the greatest pressure like the Eagle Ford for example.
But I think that really the changing terms that we see I think are solely restricted at this point to pricing and term as we just referenced on the question with James.
And I do want to sort of reinforce the fact here that we tend to not talk about this too much.
But outside pressure pumping really all -- pretty much all other product lines are very stable in their pricing outlook so we're dealing with a single product line here.
Did I miss anything from your question? Research Division</strong> Yes and then one more.
You did a great job.
But one more is that on your term contracts how many of the contracts as a percentage terms have rolled over to today's spot rates or have yet to roll over? We're still on a sort of 80% to 85% contract basis.
And as I mentioned before that we're much more evenly oriented through the year in terms of our renewals these days than we were several years ago.
So it's hard for me to give you an exact percentage but clearly we're a ways through the conversion process.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then as a follow-up or unrelated follow-up.
On the international markets obviously congratulations on the record results there on the revenue side.
You've had very impressive market share gains.
Are you going to start -- from here going forward will you start to put international margins as a priority over additional market share gains or is market share gains still your #1 priority? No we think we can do both.
And the reason we say that is as Dave referred to we're focused on a couple of things.
We're focused on the economies of scale and that is being large enough in a given market to be able to be as efficient as we can be which we can't say in all markets has been the case historically; and secondly the issue around underserved markets markets which we have had a very very limited presence in; and thirdly the repair of certain markets which have been damaged through time.
So are we going to focus on margins are we focusing on margins? Absolutely but this is not a binary equation.
We're going to do both.
Our next question comes from David Anderson of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just stick on the international side.
Question on the margin expansion you had talked about in Eastern Hemisphere in second half of the year.
Is this all going to be volume-driven on basically this cost absorption at this point? And how soon can we start thinking about the impact of pricing and technology upside? Are we like a couple of quarters away I guess I'm just trying to hone in a little bit more specific on that question.
So I think that clearly there is a volume effect.
We're starting to see -- finally see the rig count activity move which is encouraging.
It's been really it's been slow-growing to this point in terms of the move of rig count.
So volume is an element.
We're clearly seeing sort of a bifurcation in terms of contract structure; the very very large contracts are still quite challenging from a pricing standpoint.
But we're pushing pricing where we can on smaller contracts and I think we have some good examples from each of our operating regions where pricing has actually moved.
So it's going to be a combination of both those elements.
Part of the situation David is we'll still have some mobilization cost during the really the next 2 quarters as we mobilize on some of the new contract wins that we've had.
But that's -- we still think our overall forecast at the margin targets that we set are very very achievable.
And it's based on a lot of deepwater activity we're seeing coming into the market as well as the repair of these markets that we've been working on quite a bit that's sort of within our control to manage the cost side.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess just switching over or switching back to North America.
Dave you had mentioned getting back to normalized margins levels in North America.
I was wondering if you could just give us a little bit of a peek into your playbook there.
I mean how does that play out under your base case scenario? I don't know if you're assuming oil prices hold here? You had talked about rig count kind of modestly declining the rest of the year.
How does this all kind of play out in terms of the way you're looking at this? And particularly in light of limited capacity additions kind of trying to figure out kind of as this market tightens I mean how are you guys thinking about the different mechanisms that have to happen here to get back to normalized margins? I think obviously Dave the big one is to get the sort of guar pig through the python as we call it sort of here internally.
That's actually will have the most impact on moving margins back up.
Second is the playbook says that as the gas rig count comes down oil continues to go up.
You have the issue around the liquids plays today.
But for us it's a pretty simple strategy: use our economies of scale number one; pull through additional product lines with the products we have and even in a looser market from a frac equipment standpoint the execution reliability and the ability to demonstrate that we have a better response in terms of production to our PE activities does allow us to pull through other product lines; and then I think is letting the dust settle around a lot of these equipment moves that we've had to make as we've moved not only frac equipment now but also other product line equipment out of the gas plays into the liquids and oil plays.
So we have a lot of equipment on the move right now.
We've got a lot of people on the move but I think those would be the elements that as the dust settles on them should allow our margins to basically get back to where they would be considered normal actually without a tremendous amount if any ability to increase prices.
Our next question comes from Bill Herbert of Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Mark and Dave you provided us with a margin target for Eastern Hemisphere and looks like you're well on your way to doing that upper teens by year-end and mid-teens for the year.
Any thoughts with regard to how Latin America margins progress from this point forward with the thought in mind that it sounds like you guys have won this big tender in Brazil on the MWD or LWD front or are well positioned to do so? Mark you've talked about increased mob costs the next couple of quarters I assume that relates in part to that.
How do Latin America margins unfold from this point? Well one of the larger drivers of margins for the back half of the year will not only be the playing out of that mob cost which a big chunk of that will be finished toward the end of the third quarter but also as Dave mentioned we've got some other work that we know is coming on the Landmark the software sales and service consulting work that typically shows itself across-the-board in Latin America particularly in Mexico.
That is just now getting underway.
It's very high-margin business and if you look at over the last couple of years our Latin America margins were relatively benign coming out of the first quarter recovery sort of activity levels and then jumped significantly in the back part of the year.
And so as we look at the volume of activity that we're doing particularly across not only Brazil but Argentina Venezuela Colombia and Ecuador and then Mexico this pickup of activity in Mexico around the Remolino lab the -- our southern alliance project and then this Landmark pop that we get at the end of the year we feel pretty good about where that will move and it should meet or exceed our levels that we had achieved last year which were at that point in time sort of back to sort of normalized record levels of Latin America margins.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then secondly Dave you talked about sort of a recipe if you will for North American margin recovery.
Oil rig count moving higher was one of your stipulations.
Assuming that basically WTI doesn't have significant uplift from here the E&amp;P industry continues to be somewhat cash flow-constrained and the oil rig count is basically flattish from this point forward can margins get back to target levels in a relatively flattish environment? Well I -- this is Mark.
I think that the ultimate issue is that probably in a relatively flattish market the answer would be no other than the recovery of the loss that we've had around the guar inventory.
Once that flushes through we've given you a roadmap as to what that should add back.
But I think as we look ahead it's difficult to see a relatively flat rig count environment if commodity prices hold at this level for a significant period of time.
I mean we think at some point here in the next quarter or 2 the gas rig count is going to basically bottom out.
And once that does the oil rig count should be able to grow unfettered which should provide some upside to it.
The other side of it that we see also is the Gulf of Mexico recovery which again is counting as we look at the end of the year should be approaching 40 deepwater rigs.
We think our share is higher in this type of market than it was in the previous upturn and that provides some fairly significant margin uplift as well to the numbers that should help.
Our next question comes from Jim Crandell of Dahlman Rose.
LLC Research Division</strong> Back to North American pressure pumping my question is not on new contracts but on existing term contracts that you have.
Are you in any cases willing to renegotiate an existing contract down to keep let's say all the associated work that you have with it? The fluids the bits the wireline completions et cetera? The one thing I think we can say is that the contract -- the sanctity if you like of the contract structure has been very very good.
And Jim in life everything is negotiable.
I mean if there is a quid pro quo which makes sense for us then a renegotiation may well take place.
So I think suffice to say that we -- as Dave had said we're very focused on maximizing the pull-through for our operations from our hydraulic fracturing footprint.
And if that were for example to be an opportunity for us to negotiate then that would be a good example of something we'd probably go for.
LLC Research Division</strong> So you're -- so if we're looking at sort of the percentage of fleet -- frac fleets that you have under let's just say old pricing it seems that at least it's a possibility that the prices could come down a bit just for the frac piece of it earlier than I guess than what the original contracts would suggest? Yes I guess Jim this is Dave it's possible but as Tim said there's a quid pro quo with everything.
And so we're -- if we trade off some frac pricing early before the contract we're going to insist on additional market share with that customer or we're going to insist on pull-through of other services.
From a customer's perspective they're going to spend it with us or spend it with somebody else so that's actually a pretty good conversation to be in with a customer.
Our next question comes from Jeff Tillery of Tudor Pickering &amp; Company.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> In North America we spent a lot of time talking about margins but revenue was quite good this quarter.
And what you see from an activity standpoint plus Canadian albeit kind of weaker seasonal recovery than normal is revenue able to grow in the third quarter you think? The answer is yes.
I mean typically Q3 is our strongest quarter of the year our highest activity levels across-the-board.
Yes Canada is getting a little bit of a slow start this quarter.
Don't know whether that will persist or not.
But as Dave mentioned we're continuing to add equipment.
It's going to work.
We know it's going to go to work and that's part of what's creating the uplift on our revenue side as well.
We also believe that Gulf of Mexico will continue to improve during the third quarter as well.
So all in all revenue is expected to be up.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> And the follow-up question just on the domestic D&amp;E segment.
Given that Gulf of Mexico op income doubled for the company sequentially I'm surprised that the margins eroded as much as they did.
Was that just a really harsh Canada or can you give us some color on what happened? Yes we have particularly high exposure for D&amp;E in Canada and that hit us quite hard during the quarter.
Secondly we also had some sort of end effects associated with some relocations from gas basins into oily plays which impacted us quite a bit as well.
But our expectation for D&amp;E as we move into Q3 is that we will recover and we'll be at or modestly above the Q1 D&amp;E numbers for Q3.
Our next question will come from Mike Urban of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to talk about Iraq a little bit.
Sounds like activity continuing to ramp up there.
You did reference some costs in the quarter.
Was that above and beyond what you had expected or just a function of the higher activity in some of the bids that we've seen in that market? I think the honest answer is yes.
It was a little bit above what we have expected that it would be.
Across Iraq we've had some good activity.
Our business across almost every single one of our projects has done very very well.
We also have had some issues around getting diesel and things out to some of our sites.
The issues as I referenced really are isolated to the Majnoon contract and that's been probably -- that's the one field which is sort of the from a logistic standpoint is a furthest field that we deal with.
And that's where diesel's been an issue.
Some of the rigs sort of staying engaged have been an issue.
And so we took some additional cost on Majnoon in the quarter that we were not expecting.
We're continuing to try to work on that.
I think that we feel positive about what else is happening there and we feel positive about Iraq in the long term.
This one particular project has been a little bit of an issue and we're trying to get that righted so that overall results -- I mean that sort of what's standing between us and profitability is this particular project and we're almost there.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And could you expand a little bit on the outlook there in terms of where you're going? Again I think there were some additional work being bid additional projects maybe Kurdistan a little bit and just kind of your path there going forward in terms of potential additional ramp-up versus volume and contracts and the path to profitability there? We won a project with Gazprom during the quarter I think that was publicly announced and so feel good about that.
We are doing a little bit of work in Kurdistan and are looking for opportunities to expand our operations to the North as well.
So we're continuing to feel pretty good about what's happening there and looking at other various opportunities.
It's going to be a slow and measured pace just like the rest of Eastern Hemisphere.
But from a long-term perspective we feel great about that market.
Operator you can now close the call.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes today's program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Halliburton Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call may be recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Kelly Youngblood.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to the Halliburton Third Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
Today's call is being webcast and a replay will be available on Halliburton's website for 7 days.
The press release announcing the third quarter results is also available on Halliburton website.
Joining me today are Dave Lesar CEO; Mark McCollum CFO; and Tim Probert President Strategy and Corporate Development.
Jeff Miller our new COO will not be a speaker today but will be a key participant on future calls and investor events going forward.
I would like to remind our audience that some of today's comments may include forward-looking statements reflecting Halliburton's views about future events and their potential impact on performance.
These matters involve risk and uncertainties that could impact operations and financial results and cause our actual results to materially differ from our forward-looking statements.
These risks are discussed in Halliburton's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2011 Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30 2012 and recent current reports on Form 8-K.
Our comments include non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures is included in the press release announcing the third quarter results which as I have mentioned can be found on our website.
During the quarter we recorded a $48 million charge which amounts to $30 million after tax or $0.03 per diluted share related to an earnout adjustment due to significantly better-than-expected performance of our Global Oilfield Services' Artificial Lift acquisition.
These charges are reflected in our North America and Latin America Completion and Production segment results.
Additionally we recorded a $20 million gain which amounts to $13 million after tax or $0.01 per diluted share related to a recent patent infringement settlement that is reflected in our Corporate and Other expense.
As a reminder our third quarter 2011 results included an asset impairment charge of $25 million or $19 million after tax in our Europe/Africa/CIS region.
In our discussion today we will be excluding the impact of these items on our financial results.
Also for better comparability when discussing year-over-year rig activity we will be excluding Iraq as certain historical data is not available.
We will welcome questions after we complete our prepared remarks.
[Operator Instructions] Now I'll turn the call over to Dave.
Thank you Kelly and good morning to everyone.
Let me begin with a summary of our overall results for the quarter.
Total revenue of $7.1 billion was down 2% sequentially driven by a 5% reduction in our North America revenues.
Our international revenue was up 2% this quarter compared to a 2% rig count decline as a result of solid sequential growth in our Latin America Middle East and Asia regions where both had revenue records.
Our Drilling and Evaluation division also posted record revenue in the quarter.
From a product service line perspective we had record revenues this quarter for Boots &amp; Coots Wireline and Perforating Consulting and Project Management and Baroid which also had a record quarter from operating income.
Operating income of $982 million decreased 18% sequentially primarily due to pricing pressures and guar costs in our North America Production Enhancement business.
International operating income was up 5% and we are very pleased with the continued strengthening of our market position in key international geographies and product lines where we envision continued growth in the coming years.
We believe our strategy is playing out as planned as evidenced by solid activity improvements this quarter in key geographies such as Mexico Brazil Russia Malaysia and Australia.
We continue to be very optimistic about our Latin America business where we posted another excellent quarter.
Revenue was up 8% sequentially despite a 5% drop in the rig count.
Operating income increased 12% sequentially led by solid performance in Mexico and Brazil.
We saw a significant ramp-up in unconventional activity across all of Latin America during the quarter as we won new work with IOCs and independents in Brazil Colombia and Argentina where we recently completed the country's first microseismic analysis.
In Mexico we continue to introduce new unconventional completions techniques for horizontal wells.
Looking ahead to the fourth quarter we expect margins for Latin America to continue to expand aided by the end-of-year software sales.
Our Eastern Hemisphere revenues grew 19% and operating income almost 70% compared to the third quarter of last year relative to a rig count growth of only 5%.
We continue to see steady margin improvement and are optimistic about activity levels expanding in the fourth quarter and into the coming year.
Overall for the Eastern Hemisphere margins we expect to exit the year with margins in the mid to upper teens and anticipate continued year-over-year margin improvement as we go into 2013.
In the Middle East and Asia revenue and operating income increased 3% and 9% respectively compared to the second quarter.
The improvement was driven by strong activity this quarter in Malaysia and Australia along with improved results in Iraq.
During the quarter Halliburton provided integrated drilling and completion services for horizontal shale gas wells in both China and Australia.
And in Saudi Arabia we deployed the Stim Star Arabian Gulf Halliburton's latest stimulation vessel providing state-of-the-art services for the Saudi market.
Europe/Africa/CIS had a slight decline in revenue and operating income compared to the previous quarter.
Increased profitability in Russia and Libya was more than offset by activity delays resulting from election time shutdowns in Angola strikes in Norway and reduced activity across continental Europe.
Compared to the third quarter of last year we achieved double-digit revenue growth in this region and operating income grew 66% as we addressed underperforming markets.
We are optimistic about the continued improvement in this region as we are currently pursuing price increases on a number of our contracts.
And our deepwater growth strategy remains on track.
In the third quarter we successfully executed our first complete well testing and subsea job in West Africa and expanded operations in East Africa with the addition of drilling fluid services on an exploration well for a large independent offshore Kenya.
Overall our outlook for the international markets has not changed.
We continue to be faced with a series of macroeconomic headwinds: the European debt crisis lower GDP expectations in China and Brazil and renewed tensions in the Middle East.
Despite these factors there is a tightness in global oil supply today and natural gas is expected to be the single largest component of future energy demand growth.
As a result we remain very optimistic about the outlook for international services activity and our ability to outperform in that market.
As I stated earlier we expect that fourth quarter margins will exit in the mid to upper teens and 2013 will improve upon that year-over-year.
Going forward we believe margin expansion internationally will come from 4 key areas: volume increases as we ramp up on our recent wins and new projects continued improvement in those markets where we have made strategic investments the introduction of new technology and increased pricing and cost recovery on certain contracts.
Now let's turn to North America.
Our North America revenues were down 5% compared to the prior quarter as a result of the lower U.S.
land rig count contract renewals that result in lower stimulation pricing and activity disruptions associated with Hurricane Isaac.
U.S.
land rig count declined sequentially by 68 rigs or approximately 4% as operators continued to decrease their gas-directed activity.
The oil-directed rig count was up 44 or 3% this quarter as customers continued to shift their budgets toward basins with better economics.
However this increase was insufficient to offset the 18% reduction in gas rig count.
In Canada the rebound in rig activity from the spring breakup was significantly less than industry expectations.
Compared to third quarter 2011 levels Canada's rig count was down 116 or 26% and we expect activity levels to remain subdued into the fourth quarter.
Across the North American market we have seen customers curtail spending compared to the first half of the year and believe they will continue to decrease activities to operate within their capital budgets for the remainder of 2012.
Couple this with expectations that our customers will take significantly more holiday downtime than prior years this could have an even more-than-normal negative impact on the rig count as we approach year end.
Our North American operating income was down 30% sequentially driven by guar cost inflations and pricing pressures in hydraulic fracturing.
As I mentioned last quarter we continue to work through our higher-priced guar inventory and we expect our guar costs in the fourth quarter to be similar to this quarter but we have made no additional purchases of guar.
Moving into next year we expect reduction in guar costs as we take deliveries of new lower-cost inventory which we believe will translate into a tailwind to our PE margins in 2013.
We've also seen increased pricing pressures in the oil and liquids markets as we renew existing stimulation contracts and win new work.
The continued migration of hydraulic horsepower into the oil basins has resulted in these areas being in especially crowded place for stimulation equipment today with the natural outcome being overcapacity and pricing pressure.
We expect this pricing pressure to persist through early 2013 as we renew our existing contracts.
But in response to giving fracturing price concessions we have negotiated pull-through of additional product lines.
Several smaller stimulation companies have recently reported losses or breakeven levels of profitability.
This has historically been a good indicator that the market is close to or at the bottom of spot pricing deterioration.
We remain focused on maintaining our leadership position in North America.
Our stimulation fleet remains highly utilized today as we negotiate fracture contract renewals and we've been able to increase our percentage of 24-hour crews.
Many of our competitors simply do not have the infrastructure in place to meaningfully grow their 24-hour operations.
This provides us with a unique opportunity to maintain superior asset utilization.
And despite the 4% sequential decline in U.S.
rig count North American D&amp;E revenue held relatively flat sequentially while our operating income grew 5%.
Going forward the successful company will be the one who could help lower our customers cost per BOE for drilling and completing unconventional wells.
This is going to require 3 capabilities: an efficient pumping fleet which we clearly have especially as we expand our Frac of the Future footprint; 2 better well engineering and fracture design to drill more efficient wells to only fracture the most productive zones; and 3 fluid systems that maximize reservoir response.
To address the second item we have recently released the industry's most advanced software model called Knoesis.
To address the third item we have developed PermStim.
I believe that both of these technologies will be game changers and differentiate us from those companies that have only pumping capability.
Tim will discuss them more in a few minutes.
Turning to the Gulf of Mexico.
Although there was some impact from Hurricane Isaac the timing of certain projects was the primary driver of profitability this quarter.
We are optimistic about the work that we have secured for new deepwater rigs arriving in the Gulf and expect that this will translate into higher market share relative to our historical levels.
We're also optimistic about anticipated fourth quarter activity and believe we are well positioned to continue with strong growth in the Gulf in 2013.
So to summarize North America we expect the next couple of quarters to be pretty bumpy.
While we have an understanding of the price impact of our contract renewals there remains significant uncertainty around customer activity levels throughout the fourth quarter both in terms of rig programs and extended holiday downtime.
Activity may be further impacted by the muted recovery in Canada by typical weather-related delays and by customers' decisions to drill but not complete wells.
At this point we believe the downside pressure to the fourth quarter outweigh in the upside and we will take the necessary steps to adjust our operations.
Now we've been running our people and equipment flat-out for the past several years.
So if this short-term drop in activity happens we will not chase the lower price transactional work to keep our crews busy or to gain market share.
This is something we traditionally would have done.
We will instead stack our equipment and reduce labor costs by working with our employees to minimize the temporary impact of these disruptions.
The reason we are taking a different approach this time is because we believe these issues are transitory and we do not want to take the risk of lowering the pricing baseline for a problem that we will expect to go away in a couple of quarters or to have our customers believe that such pricing would be the new normal going forward.
I'm confident that our North America management team is up to this challenge.
We're forecasting modest rig growth in oil for 2013 assuming that commodity prices continue to support that.
However to return to the utilization levels we saw in 2010 and 2011 the industry will require some degree of recovery in the natural gas market.
We continue to be very confident in the long-term fundamentals of our business and our growth strategy growing forward.
We will continue to focus on maintaining our leadership position in North America continuing to strengthen our international margins and grow our market share in deepwater and in global unconventionals and underserved international markets.
Now let me turn it over to Mark for a few minutes.
Thanks David.
Good morning everyone.
Our revenue in the third quarter was $7.1 billion down 2% sequentially from the second quarter.
Total operating income for the third quarter was $982 million down 18% sequentially after normalizing for the acquisition-related charge and litigation settlement gain this quarter.
North America revenue and operating income decreased 5% and 30% respectively compared to the previous quarter with margins coming in slightly above 15%.
As Dave mentioned the lower U.S.
land rig count hydraulic fracturing pricing pressure and guar cost inflation were the most significant drivers combined with lower customer activity and the impact of Hurricane Isaac.
Canada had sequential improvement but the rebound from spring breakup was significantly less than we've seen historically.
In North America we typically expect to see a drop in activity in margins due to holiday downtime and winter seasonality as we move from the third quarter to the fourth quarter.
This year we're anticipating this sequential decline will be exacerbated by widespread activity reductions across the U.S.
land market as a number of our customers work to maintain spending levels within their 2012 budgets.
These activity reductions along with the additional pricing pressure related to contract renewals will most likely result in lower revenues and incrementally lower margins in the fourth quarter.
For international we expect the usual sequential improvement in the fourth quarter driven by landmark software sales increased completion tool deliveries and end-of-year equipment sales.
Typically international revenues have increased on a percentage basis by low single digits from the third quarter to the fourth quarter carrying higher margins as a result of these year-end activities.
Similarly we would then expect to see a sequential decline in international revenues and margins in the first quarter of 2013 as these activities subside coupled with weather-related seasonality.
Now looking at our third quarter results sequentially by division.
Completion and Production revenue and operating income decreased 4% and 30% respectively.
North America stimulation pricing pressure and guar cost issues drove the lower profitability but were partially offset by stronger results in our Middle East/Asia region.
On a geographic basis Completion and Production North America revenue and operating income were down sequentially by 6% and 39% respectively as increased activity in Canada was offset by the transitory U.S.
land headwinds already discussed.
The Gulf of Mexico was also down sequentially due to the timing of completion tool sales and certain projects as well as the impact of Hurricane Isaac.
However we're optimistic about higher activity in margins in the Gulf in the fourth quarter and going into next year.
In Latin America Completion and Production posted a 10% sequential increase in revenue due to improved activity across most product lines in Mexico and higher completion tool sales in Brazil.
Operating income however decreased due to lower overall profitability in Argentina and Venezuela and reduced cementing activity in Brazil and Colombia.
In Europe/Africa/CIS Completion and Production revenue decreased by 5% and operating income decreased by 7%.
Higher activity in Russia and increased Boots &amp; Coots activity in the North Sea were offset by depressed North Sea activity in completion tools cementing and lower stimulation vessel activity.
Additionally activity declines in Angola across most product lines contributed to the sequential decline.
In Middle East/Asia Completion and Production revenue and operating income increased by 4% and 8% respectively.
The growth was driven primarily by strong stimulation activity in Australia strong completion tool sales in Malaysia growth in all product lines in China and increased cementing activity in India.
Partially offsetting this growth were declines in completion tool sales in Indonesia and Brunei and lower Boots &amp; Coots activity in Saudi Arabia.
In our Drilling and Evaluation division revenue and operating income increased 2% and 9% respectively led by higher software and consulting services in Latin America and increased activity in the Middle East/Asia region where we had strong sequential growth in Malaysia and Saudi Arabia and improved profitability in Iraq.
In North America Drilling and Evaluation revenue remained relatively flat while operating income increased 5% primarily due to higher drilling activity in Canada and improved Wireline and Perforating profitability in U.S.
land.
Drilling and Evaluation's Latin America revenue and operating income increased 7% and 26% respectively due to improved activity in Mexico and increased software sales across the region.
Additionally Brazil had higher wireline and testing activity contributing to this growth.
Partially offsetting these increases were reduced profitability in Columbia and lower testing and subsea activity in Mexico.
In the Europe/Africa/CIS region Drilling and Evaluation revenue and operating income both came in basically flat with the previous quarter.
Improved drilling fluids activity in Norway and Russia increased Wireline profitability in Libya and higher activity and software sales in Angola were offset by lower directional drilling activity in Nigeria and the Caspian along with reduced wireline activity across continental Europe.
And finally Drilling and Evaluation's Middle East/Asia revenue and operating income increased by 2% and 10% respectively.
Malaysia had strong results during the quarter in our directional drilling wireline and perforating and testing and subsea product lines.
Also contributing to the growth this quarter was increased wireline and perforating and directional drilling activity in Saudi Arabia and China along with better performance in Iraq.
Partially offsetting this growth was lower testing and subsea sales in China.
Our Corporate and Other expense was $87 million this quarter excluding the patent litigation settlement gain and includes cost for our continued investment in various strategic initiatives.
The expenses related to these initiatives during the quarter totaled approximately $32 billion slightly more than Q2 but less than we were expecting for the third quarter.
We anticipate the quarterly impact for these investments will increase in the fourth quarter to approximately $0.03 per share after tax.
And in total and combined with those initiative costs we anticipate that corporate expenses will range between $100 million and $105 million during the fourth quarter of 2012.
Our effective tax rate including the nonrecurring adjustments mentioned earlier was 30.5% for the third quarter which is significantly less than previously anticipated.
And we currently expect the full year 2012 effective tax rate will be approximately 32% which is again lower than past guidance.
As mentioned last quarter one of the key strategic initiatives that we've been focused on is a realignment of our international operations to better position us for improved delivery of our products and services to our international customers closer alignment to our international supply base more efficient use of our technology and an overall reduction in cost.
Going forward we expect to see an increase in our international earnings and a related reduction of our effective tax rate in future years.
Specifically looking ahead to 2013 we expect to see a 200 to 300 basis point improvement in our effective tax rate as compared to the current full year 2012 rate.
We now anticipate that our capital expenditures for the full year will be approximately $3.4 billion to $3.5 billion.
We'll be presenting our 2013 capital expenditure plan to our Board of Directors at the end of the year and will provide formal guidance on next year's capital plan during our fourth quarter call.
However our current expectation is that our overall capital budget will be lower in 2013 than 2012.
We currently intend to direct less capital toward the North America pressure pumping market.
Our North American horsepower build will be aimed toward fleet replacement.
The displaced equipment will be retired from the market and the emphasis will be on the rollout of the Q10 pump and other ancillary equipment designed to advance our Frac of the Future goals.
Now I'll turn it over to Tim.
Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
I'm going to provide a bit more color on Dave's comments regarding factors impacting our return to prior activity levels and normalized margins in North America.
First the impact of guar.
As discussed previously the rising cost of guar resulted in a headwind of approximately 600 basis points in our North America business in the third quarter.
The current crop is anticipated to be 25% to 50% larger than last year and we foresee a significant improvement in guar costs in 2013 and a restorative tailwind to margins notwithstanding the fourth quarter activity challenges Dave described earlier.
We've seen rapid adoption of PermStim one of the game-changing technologies Dave mentioned which is our high-performance guar replacement.
PermStim not only provides an economic alternative to guar but also provides a vastly improved post-frac cleanup enabling better flow rates and production when compared with guar systems.
On the same Williston pad for example production was 20% higher 150 days post frac compared with a similar well frac with a guar-based fluid system.
In terms of economics PermStim is highly competitive with guar at current prices and we believe will offer us a compelling alternative in the event of future guar cost escalation.
The second key factor is customer spending.
Our customers have reined in their spending in the back half of the year resulting in a decline of 172 rigs since the beginning of the year.
Spending reductions have been more concentrated in large-cap public companies since the end of the second quarter.
And as Dave discussed this group of customers are indicating to us a return to historical levels of activity in the first quarter as 2013 budgets get underway.
Thirdly a more favorable balance in the terms of horsepower supply and demand.
Some industry horsepower has been parked and indications are that horsepower additions have slowed dramatically.
We retired 2 fleets in the second quarter and a third this quarter and anticipate further fleet retirements in the fourth quarter.
As Mark mentioned any incremental horsepower builds will be directed towards fleet replacement and focus on our Q10 pumps which are designed to more efficiently handle continuous pumping operations associated with horizontal activity.
Q10s have demonstrated an ability to pump twice as many stages as existing pumps before requiring regular maintenance on a spread that requires 25% less horsepower on location.
They're a core component for us of our Frac of the Future.
Finally in a flat-rig count environment we believe that continued drilling efficiency gains and a rising integration will be key components of improving North America margins.
So this suggests to us that excelling at delivering integrated completion services will increasingly become a differentiator in work selection.
Earlier this month at the SPE Annual Conference we introduced our industry changing family of software called Knoesis.
Designed to improve reservoir knowledge and stimulation characteristics Knoesis is the industry's first comprehensive and ground-up solution to the challenge of modeling fracture behavior in complex unconventional reservoirs.
This enables our customers to add a further layer of science to the fracture completion portfolio.
We're now able to design and forward model fracture completions using 3-dimensional propagation methodologies which provide previously unavailable insight on fracture planes and the extent of reservoir contact.
The Knoesis suite gives us unparalleled subsurface visualization and design capabilities.
So paired with our industry-leading well-site delivery we believe we're uniquely positioned to provide improved knowledge of the reservoir and its stimulation characteristics to our customers with the singular goal of making better wells.
So while the extent of the North America cycle in 2013 is uncertain we believe our Frac of the Future initiatives will continue to provide cost benefits and that Knoesis will enable us to materially improve our service intensity coupled with moderating horseback capacity reported commodity prices and a guar cost tailwind to our operations we see these as supportive factors in our goal to return to normalized margins over the course of 2013.
Dave? Thank you Tim.
Let me just quickly summarize.
We're very proud of our third quarter international results.
We continue to gain market share in key markets and expect our Eastern Hemisphere margins to be in the upper teens as we exit the year and are optimistic about continued improvement in 2013.
In North America we will not chase the transnational market as we would typically have done but will instead idle our equipment.
And overall we remain very laser-focused on providing industry-leading returns.
So we will reduce capital spending as we go into 2013.
But our strategy remains intact.
We are focused on maintaining our leadership position in North America continuing to strengthen international margins and grow our market share in deepwater unconventionals and underserved international markets.
So let's open it up for questions at this point.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Brad Handler of Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess in light of going first let me try to just make sure I understand some of what you're trying to guide us to.
First maybe a clarification of what you consider to be normalized margins in the U.S.
If we're working towards that how would you think about 2013 evolving? I recognize of course in that there are elements to the revenue side you don't see but let's just -- if you could clarify the normalized margin comment that would be helpful.
Well without giving -- trying to give specific guidance as to when this might happen because that's not what we're doing we continue to hold that we think normalized margins are in the mid-20s that's -- as we look at the business historically and sort of a balanced market balanced cost structure that those mid-20s margins seem to be appropriate to us and that's what we're targeting internally to drive our business forward.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
It makes sense.
And the follow-up in the same vein maybe it's a bit more fourth quarter focused you all helped us in saying okay traditionally internationally now you see a modest what did you say low-single-digit revenue increase.
I actually thought it might have been higher traditionally and then some margin increase.
Are you suggesting that from what you can see the fourth quarter of '12 would be a traditional year? In other words is that what you're encouraging us to think about for the fourth quarter in non-North America? Or there are some elements that change that? Well no.
I think the way that we're looking at it right now and based on our forecast we're seeing it as a fairly traditional year maybe with a slight bias to the lower end.
I mean obviously some of the macro headwinds that Dave discussed have continued to be out there.
We're watching them very carefully.
There seem to be more headwinds than tailwinds in the broad market itself.
But as our business is performing and particularly with regard to the share gains that we've had as some of those contracts come in we think that those things coupled together will allow us to post a revenue gain that's in line with what we have traditionally seen.
Does that make sense? Inc.
Research Division</strong> It does.
In other words that the broad market may not be up.
But with regard to our revenues because of our share gains we think that it will look fairly typical.
Our next question comes from Jim Wicklund [ph] of Crédit Suisse.
A question.
I understand that CapEx being down in 2013 because the current overcapacity in U.S.
pressure pumping.
But you make comments about unconventional work in China and Australia and of course the big deepwater projects that you won and that you're changing.
Is CapEx going to continue to be a high number? I mean are we going to have to continue to invest in this market at the levels close to what we've seen this year? Do we have enough capacity for the international shale boom and the deepwater boom? Well I mean part of the reason we didn't give specific guidance Jim is because it’s something that we're working on.
We got to have input from our customers as to what the -- not only the amount but the timing of their capital spending will be.
But -- and I think the other sort of data point to always consider is that we don't build speculative capital.
So as we address our capital budget for next year I mean I think it is fair to say that there are going to be capital being placed in international markets around unconventionals around some of the deepwater markets to -- for us to be able to satisfy what our customers are doing on the share wins that we've got and on the projects that we -- they will be doing.
We're -- as Dave said we are focused like lasers on returns right now.
We're going to be trying to drive that as carefully as we possibly can.
But we do continue to be encouraged about the pace of the development in international and deepwater and unconventionals.
The industry as a whole is undercapitalized.
I think it's fair to say particularly around unconventionals we're undercapitalized.
And we're going to continue to be working to try to make sure that we have assets on the ground to do that work on a realtime basis.
Okay.
And the second follow-up if I could.
The international strategic initiative that you talk about better delivery of technology closer to supply bases can you kind of give us a more layman's term as to what it is you're doing to accomplish this? I mean what the $32 million this quarter was actually spent on so we can better understand what that is? There are several different initiatives Jim that we're working on.
One is we've been completing a fairly significant manufacturing plant in Singapore for our Completion Tools product service line.
Our Completion Tools product service line management now resides in Singapore.
We're operating that business internationally.
And so that's been a fairly significant change and it also because of the way that we procure has required subsistent changes to back that up.
Secondarily we still are continuing to work on a project we internally call Battle Red that is associated with our Frac of the Future initiative but really is designed to look at our back office operations the ordering cash process the use of mobility mobile technologies in the field itself to allow our business development our operations people to be better connected to move our paper flows more -- to expedite that flow so that we can build faster be more responsive to customer changes when their -- when work moves as it always does.
And that's a fairly significant rollout that requires some changes to SAP some reorientation of our business support centers.
And that change will probably be sort of come to full fruition in the middle part of next year but something that we're spending some ongoing cost around.
We're pretty excited about the opportunities that it will hold to reduce our working capital in terms of day sales outstanding and to allow us to improve our service quality as we work with customers.
And then the final step really is around other changes that we see particularly in our Drilling and Evaluation business orients to be more international.
We are taking steps with our legal entity organization and other things to be able to expedite that work.
And a lot of that relates to moving IP and other things offshore that allows to better utilize that in some of our foreign jurisdictions.
Our next question comes from James West of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> If I could shift back to North America quickly here.
Tim you went into some detail but I want to make sure I caught everything correctly.
In your discussions with your customer base who admittingly is being very disciplined right now and living within their stated 2012 CapEx budgets as you talked to them about '13 it sounds like they all plan to get back to where they were kind of starting 2012 which is 175 rigs or so higher.
Was that -- am I correct to have assumption? And is that what your customers are kind of implying to you at this point? I think a couple of points James.
I think -- number one I think the rate of drilling efficiency in the second half of the year have probably exceeded expectations.
And as a result of that we've seen essentially this construct of many companies essentially running at a budget as we glide in towards the end of the year.
And I think as Dave mentioned as well the combination of that fact plus it's really easy take a little extra time around holiday period as we've seen in past cycles.
That clearly is contributing to the slowdown.
I think the indications we are getting clearly is that we will see that increase as we get into 2013.
I don't think we're naïve enough to think that it happens on -- in the first week of January because it won't.
So it will be a spaced event as we go through the first quarter.
And that's the best year that we have at the moment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a follow-up specifically to pressure pumping and kind of the pricing dynamics today is market pricing.
I understand that you're still rolling over to kind of your new pricing on your contracts which is still I believe at a premium to the market price.
Is the market price still going down at this point? Or have we started to stabilize? I think that's pretty basin specific.
When you sort of break things out a little bit I mean if you just kind of look at say the Permian the Eagle Ford and the Bakken together those 3 basins now represent about 50% of the total rig count in the U.S.
And you look at the Marcellus the Barnett the Haynesville they're only about 10% of the total rig count today and down about 50% since the beginning of the year.
So you can see where the greatest pressures come from that.
It's not to say that any basin is immune right now but basin by basin there are different pressures.
Dry gas the rig count declines have stabilized there in fact.
Wet gas is still coming down and so if you kind of look at the wet gas dry gas and liquids the former are the most impacted.
So I think I would say that we're starting to see some signs of a bottom.
As Dave mentioned the best sign that you ever see is when you see people smaller firms operating at EBITDA breakeven.
We've certainly seen some indications of that.
That usually is the best indicator that pricing is starting to stabilize.
And I think you'll gather more information on that over the coming week or so in terms of whether or not that thesis continues from last quarter to this quarter.
Our next question comes from Waqar Syed of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to shift from rig count to more to a well count level as you mentioned that rigs are becoming more efficient.
So maybe it's probably more useful to be focusing on well count now.
As you focus on that on the horizontal well count how do you see that progressing in the first half of next year versus the second half of this year? When we sort of look at the overall sort of rig contracting picture I mean clearly there are a lot of mechanical and SCR rigs that are getting sort of dropped and put on the sideline.
The efficiency gains have been quite substantial during the course of this year but not just in terms of drilling times but also in terms of move times as well.
And that obviously contributions to as you mentioned the higher well count.
We've also seen I think an increase in the wells and inventory.
Dave touched on that a little bit earlier.
So it's a little hard to triangulate exactly what the picture looks like at this moment.
But I don't see any change next year in terms of the drive towards drilling efficiency.
I think the biggest gains have probably been realized.
But we're a very innovative industry and we'll keep pushing for -- to reduce days to debt.
So as we get back into next year I think we'd kind of start where we left off and then we'll continue to see incremental gains that are arguably not quite as significant as we saw this year.
Research Division</strong> And then secondly on service intensity do you see service intensity still increasing? Or has it now become kind of leveled off or even falling as we look forward in 2013? Yes I think we do see service intensity increasing.
As we've said a couple of times the first battle here has been all around service efficiency.
I feel that as a company we've got that well positioned and as a -- from the example I was giving you regarding our new pumping systems some significant benefits.
They are not just in terms of operating cost but in terms of capital deployment too which is very important to us.
But the next inning really is all about subsurface efficiency.
It's about making better wells.
And we've been in a scramble as an industry to get work done for a couple of years.
Now it's about applying the science to the subsurface making better wells and becoming a lot more efficient not just in the oily basins but in the gassy basins too.
Just a follow-up on that I mean I think as we look ahead we're not trying to build our plan just around service intensity growth and sort of relying on that.
As Dave said we think that the ultimate differentiator is going to be those guys that can be the lowest cost service provider.
So we're very very keenly focused on reducing our footprint our operating cost bringing down our internal cost so that ultimately our realization on a per stage or per well goes up regardless of what happens on the service intensity side.
Research Division</strong> So to that point the Frac of the Future where are you in that the implementation phase? And when do we start to see the benefits of the lower cost? We're in the rollout phase today.
And obviously we have a large existing fleet.
And so we have to implement enough Frac of the Future fleets to ensure that we sort of impact the overall balance.
So we'll start to see some impacts during 2013.
The bulk of the impacts though probably will be more felt in 2014.
We do have some of the Frac of the Future fleets that are out there operating and the early results are quite dramatic.
We've got -- we were very pleased.
Our next question comes from David Anderson of JPMorgan.
So we've been hearing a lot of talk about E&amp;Ps using up their 2012 CapEx budgets and I guess on the one hand I guess there's a first for everything.
But it's pretty unusual considering these guys are cash flow driven and WTI is above $90.
So I'm just wondering.
It seems to take a lot of the weaker activity levels.
It's really about looking to drive down cost through lower service pricing.
Now obviously in mind Dave you just made a pretty big change there in your strategies and you're not seeking full utilization anymore.
So should I be reading this? Or should we be reading this as basically you guys drawing a line in the sand and saying this is as far as we're going to go on pricing and we're not going to the devalue our services anymore compared to one-dimensional players? I guess that's a great way to summarize it Dave.
As I indicated one of the lessons we learned coming out of the last dip is that chasing the transactional market essentially sets the lowest common denominator for pricing.
And it's that point that you have to then battle uphill on getting prices increases out of.
And so our view is that that is a relatively transitory market for us to chase into given the percentage of 24-hour crews we have.
Therefore we are not going to chase into it this time.
We're not going to lower our prices to get that work therefore giving us a higher baseline to move forward when some of these other issues get out of the way.
So yes that is a strategy change and one that ultimately I think will be successful and it's just a lesson that we learned from the past.
Okay.
Now you're talking about transitory weakness in North America and it's going to last only a few quarters.
What are some of the signs or at least what are some of the drivers that you're looking for? I mean are you kind of looking at kind of 3 or 4 things talking about pressure pumping fleet attrition you talked kind of some of the laying down but do you need to see industry attrition levels higher? Is it improvement of national gas rig count? Is it E&amp;P cost coming down? Or is it kind of these emerging basins absorbing capacity? What do you think are kind of the couple of the key drivers? Or at least a couple of the signs that you're going to -- that you're pointing towards? David remember that about 80% to 85% of our fleet is contracted right? So the key thing that we're looking for is customer budgets an announcement that they're getting back to work.
As we're looking we think about this transitory issue we're talking about in Q4 they use up their budget and they're basically taking time off to coast into the end of the year.
And so the key thing we'll be looking for is when are they are going to be starting backup and when could we get our crews back to work? And that takes up a -- the vast majority of the issue around what we're looking for.
The second thing obviously will be then watching the rig count overall as it begins to leak up.
As you commented I think it's not the commodity price.
The commodity price environment particularly on the oil side has been supportive.
And we've seen near -- on an absolute basis a 6% reduction in the U.S.
land rig count since the end of June in spite of that.
And so that's why this feels so transitory and really budget related.
And going into next year many of the contract rollovers customers have all suggested at least in their initial indicators that they're going to do want -- they're going to do more work they’ll be running more rigs and asking for more equipment on our side.
And so we feel on a long-term basis pretty good about what 2013 might hold.
And when do you start having those conversations? Is that kind of a December conversation for January is that how we think about it? Happening now.
Still happening right now.
Our next question comes from Kurt Hallead of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> A question I would have you guys indicated here that you're able to maybe offset some of the reduction in frac activity by pulling through other services.
That seems like a very familiar refrain from other downturns that typically tend to be transitory.
Can you talk a little bit about what kind of product launch you're able to pull through and whether or not that pull-through on a go-forward basis is going to be a substantial factor in helping you get back to that normalized margin? Or is that normalized margin one thing -- I’m coming back to what you said earlier is that primarily just frac utilization? Can you just give us some color around that? Yes I think the first comment there probably Kurt is around pricing in general.
I think just to sort of clarify a little bit.
I mean the pricing issues that we have today are primarily around stimulation.
So you saw the D&amp;E results.
They were good for North America improvement in margins off the Q.
And I think as we've touched on there is clearly -- anything that directly touches frac may have a little more pressure than those things that don't touch frac.
So I think the first point is that there is a real opportunity to pull through elements which do not today have significant pricing pressure.
I think that's point number one.
And with respect to the pull-through obviously anytime that you renegotiate you're looking for some opportunity to improve your longer-term position.
You've heard it from us before.
It's something that we tend to focus on and those product lines typically would be around completions would be around wireline would be around coil just to give a few examples of areas where we would really sort of push to to try and improve the pull through.
Okay.
Let me just add.
Kurt as you're thinking about the normalized margins as we think about our North America margins or at least our U.S.
margins right now they're not us as far off as I think that the average margin indicates right? We've described that guar is about 600 basis points of margin impact on us.
When you eliminate that that comes back to us substantially.
We're back above 20%.
We also think that we probably lost a little under 100 basis points of margin this quarter just on activity and mix as a result of the declining rig count over the course of the quarter.
And so it doesn't take that much movement for us to sort of begin to threaten those normalized margins as we've talked about them with some repair on the market.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
I was wondering David if you can make -- give us an update on how you think things are progressing in Iraq and what you think the outlook is in general for Saudi and Iraq heading out into 2013.
I think first with Saudi I think it's a good news story.
We like our position there.
We've had additional rigs added to our south guar project.
That one is going very very well Manitha [ph] the rig count is up on that project.
As I indicated we've just added a stimulation vessel into the market.
We have been assigned a geographic area in Saudi to try to demonstrate that we can make unconventionals work there in some of their tight gas area.
So that market is very good for us right now and potentially even better as we go into the next couple of years.
Iraq is certainly for us a lot better than it was last year where we were struggling with some contracts.
We are getting through those at this point in time.
And as I indicated and Mark indicated the financial results are better.
It is still a very difficult market to operate in.
And the size of projects and the contract structure basically creates a bidding frenzy around them which means that everybody is bidding those things fairly thinly.
But we've got good infrastructure on the ground.
We're committed to that marketplace.
We just have to work our way through some of the contracts that we did have some issues with.
But we're very optimistic about that market also.
Our next question comes from Bill Herbert of Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Mark could you just review with us exactly how the mechanics of the guar cost recovery work? I mean I understand the fact that you guys are turning very some high cost inventory and haven't necessarily been able to pass that through.
On a guar cost markdown with regard to raw material cost input into the job will the client expect to receive some of that? Or because they didn't get it they didn't have to pay for it in the first place? You get to keep it? How does that work I mean mechanically? Yes essentially guar is our cost right.
It's an input cost into the work that we do.
As our guys have been in the market bidding we know that we have a higher cost average -- higher average cost of guar.
They have substantially tried to ignore that.
So that they remain competitive.
And as a result of that to the extent that our inflation is above the market we've just taken that straight on the chin.
And as we look ahead with the crop yield being 20% to 50% higher next year we're already beginning to see sort of current pricing of guar in the market beginning to fall the success of the PermStim rollout and what it's being able to achieve for customers and the demand that we're seeing in terms of its growth we feel like that will not only be able to kind of get ourselves back to as we normally would on supply chain side be it sort of the most favored nations price that's out there in the market but also probably have some ability to value price the PermStim offering going into next year as we get more and better results from its use.
Research Division</strong> But on the lower cost guar is like getting contractually to your customers.
Is that [indiscernible]? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Let me kind of give you an example.
Our stimulation pricing is generally on a per stage basis.
Let's say we charge $100 first day.
I mean it's obviously a lot more than that.
But let's say $100 as an example of which let's say $0.50 of that -- there are $50 of that $100 is materials that are consumed and that includes our guar cost today.
As Tim said there's about 600 basis points in that.
So what we would expect is our $50 of material to go down to $44 of material or whatever the math would work out.
So therefore the customer doesn't see the increase as they came through and won't see the decline as it goes out.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That makes sense.
And then with regard to again timing we would expect to see the headwind become a tailwind when? Q2 of next year? Well I mean I think our hope is that we're going to be really working through a lot of our inventories getting it down in normalized levels toward the end of this year or early next.
I mean the variable in this is to what extent activity falters in Q4 because we've sort of known fairly closely what our usage is and where that's going and then also how much PermStim.
PermStim has been growing significantly as a substitute product that can also cost some of the guar inventory leak over into Q1 if we don't use it.
But having done that we think that really we're going to start new purchases of the new crop year at the end of the year and that will begin to influence the average cost in our inventories quite dramatically.
And so hopefully by the time we get out of Q1 no matter what happens we'll have this guar issue behind us back to market levels.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes today's program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Halliburton Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I’d now like to introduce your host for today's conference Mr.
Kelly Youngblood.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you Sam.
Good morning and welcome to the Halliburton Fourth Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
Today's call is being webcast and a replay will be available on Halliburton's website for seven days.
The press release announcing the fourth quarter results is available on Halliburton website.
Joining me today are Dave Lesar CEO; Jeff Miller COO; and Mark McCollum CFO.
Tim Probert President of Strategy and Corporate Development will also be available today for follow-up calls.
I would like to remind our audience that some of today's comments may include forward-looking statements reflecting Halliburton's views about future events and their potential impact on performance.
These matters involve risk and uncertainties that could impact operations and financial results and cause our actual results to materially differ from our forward-looking statements.
These risks are discussed in Halliburton's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2011 Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30 2012 and recent current reports on Form 8-K.
Our comments include non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in the press release announcing the fourth quarter results which as I have mentioned can be found on our website.
Our third quarter 2012 results included a $48 million charge which amounts to $30 million after-tax or $0.03 per diluted share for an acquisition-related earn-out adjustment.
This charge is reflected in both our North America and Latin America Completion and Production segment results.
Additionally in the third quarter we recorded a $20 million gain which amounts to $13 million after-tax or $0.01 per diluted share related to a patent infringement settlement that is reflected in our corporate and other expense.
In our discussion today we will be excluding the impact of these items on our financial results.
We welcome questions after we complete our prepared remarks.
We ask that you please limit yourself to one question and one related follow-up to allow more time for others who have questions.
Now I'll turn the call over to Dave.
Dave? Thank you Kelly and good morning to everyone.
Let me begin with a few of our key accomplishments in 2012.
First I'm proud to say that we delivered industry leading revenue growth in 2012 on the strength of our international business.
Our international operations also delivered industry leading profit growth.
The result is a record year for our company with revenue totaling $28.5 billion despite the challenges we experienced in the North America market.
To put this in perspective our business has nearly doubled in size over the last three years nearly all of it from organic growth.
We set new revenue records this year in all of our regions and in both of our divisions.
From an operating income perspective we achieved new records in our Latin America region and in five of our 12 product lines.
At the start of each year I find it's important to reiterate our basic strategy.
Our cornerstones remain unchanged.
Leadership in global unconventional development expanding our share within the deepwater markets and helping our customers maximize recovery from mature fields.
As the industry leader in unconventional development this year we elevated our service offerings with the start of the rollout of our Frac of the Future initiative.
This provides the most efficient and effective hydraulic fracturing delivery system available in the industry today.
Globally 2012 is a watershed year for the expansion of unconventionals.
In addition to providing services on several of the first commercial unconventional wells in Australia in China we expanded our service footprint in key market such as Saudi Arabia Mexico and Argentina.
Ultimately we differentiate ourselves by offering a fit-for-purpose completion coupled with superior frac designed that maximizes well productivity and delivers the lowest cost per BOE for our customers.
In the deepwater area we are seeing the payoff of our recent infrastructure investments with key contract wins and market share gains in areas such as Malaysia Mozambique Tanzania Kenya and Brazil.
Our value proposition for deep water remains focused at improving reliability and integrity in well construction and completion activities and helping our customers reduce uncertainty.
We believe our deep water technology portfolio expanding market position and service quality reputation will benefit us as new build deepwater rigs live in the market.
And lastly we continue to build out our capabilities in servicing mature fields.
Over the last year we’ve seen great success in critical investments we’ve made in the areas of specialty chemicals and artificial lift.
These investments along with Boots &amp; Coots have allowed us to more than double the size of our matured field business over the last two years.
Our focus here is to share our customer’s production and improved recovery rates and provide the technology to optimize performance over the life of the field.
Underpinning these strategies as a continued significant investment in new technology we’ve more than doubled our technology spend in the last two years.
And this year we will be expanding our R&amp;D spend at a rate faster than our revenue growth as we further globalize our R&amp;D footprint and drive solutions in unconventional deepwater and matured fields.
Now let me move on to operations.
Internationally 2012 played out the way we told you it would.
We exited the year with margins in the upper teens and averaged 15% for the full-year.
Let’s look at 2013.
There we anticipate international customer spend increase in the high single digits maybe more maybe less.
Whatever it turns out to be the market share gains we’ve had we expect our revenue to outpace the increased spending levels.
We also anticipate full-year margins should average in the upper teens for 2013.
We believe that this above market growth rate will come from volume increases as we ramp up on recent wins in new projects from continued improvement in those markets where we’ve made strategic investments in the past several years from the introduction of new technology and some modest pricing increases and cost recovery on selected contracts.
Shifting to North America 2012 was a very challenging year for the industry.
Operations we’re impacted by headwinds such as guar costs pricing pressures and a significant drop in the natural gas rig activity.
However I want to be clear before you listen to the rest of the presentation.
We believe that the fourth quarter marked the bottom for U.S.
land margins and Jeff and Mark will tell you why we believe this.
Let’s look at how we see 2013 for North America.
First due to the significant post Thanksgiving slowdown we experienced we closed the year with approximately a one month supply of high-priced guar inventory remaining.
We will be taking delivery of lower-priced guar this quarter and by the second quarter we expect our guar inventory cost to be at market rates.
Although current guar market prices have reduced from the high as we saw in early 2012 guar prices remain above historical levels.
This has had a silver lining as it is making our fast growing PermStim fluid system a compelling economic alternative and more importantly puts a sealing on the prices we will need to pay for guar in the future.
In the U.S.
we believe the rig count will continue to grow from current levels but will average down slightly for the year compared to 2012.
However we are seeing higher well efficiencies due to increased pad drilling more 24 hour operations rig fleet upgrades and significant advancements in drilling and completion technologies.
In 2012 we saw the average days per horizontal well drilled drop approximately 15% compared to 2011 and we anticipate continued efficiency improvements in the upper single-digits for 2013.
We believe that this continued shift toward efficiency boards very well for us in the coming years as no company has the ability to execute factory type operations like Halliburton.
We’re also beginning to see signs of activity improvements in the first quarter as compared to December.
The given the pronounced seasonal decline we saw in the fourth quarter it could take longer for activity levels to fully rebound to second or third quarter levels from 2012.
For the remainder of the year we expect activity levels to gradually increase but we are expecting continued pricing pressure as we renew our last tranche of stimulation contracts.
Many of our competitors are operating at breakeven or lost positions which should set a floor on stimulation pricing.
However an improvement in pricing will require a meaningful decrease in excess capacity which can happen of course in two ways either equipment wears out it is not replaced or increased activity takes up the slack.
We are expecting the industry to add hardly any capacity this year and over time we should see a drop in excess horsepower due to normal attrition.
Increasing oil activity and rising service intensity will also help to a certain extent.
However we believe that without a significant uptick in natural gas drilling it is difficult to see a path for pressure pumping equipment to reach equilibrium this year.
Our view is that the U.S.
natural gas drilling will not be a major activity driver in 2013 although the rig count in that area appears to have flattened.
The decline in output from existing natural gas wells will likely be offset by additional volumes generated from new gas wells the restart of shutting wells and associated gas from new oil wells if we see any meaningful uptick in gas activity that likely will not occur until the second half of the year.
That being said we still strongly believe in the long-term fundamentals of the gas business and are not going to abandon that market.
We have stayed with those customers in the natural gas basins even as some of our competitors left to chase work in the oil plays.
This strategy has deepened our relationship with these customers and positions us well when gas activity rebounds.
In the meantime we may need in these basins as a focus has a negative ongoing impact on our margins but we believe this is the right decision for the long run.
Our growth strategy going forward remains the same.
We'll continue to grow our market share in deepwater in global unconventionals and in mature assets.
I'm optimistic about the coming year and our ability to rebuild our North American margins and realized continued revenue and margin growth in our international business.
And lastly we remain laser-focused on capital and margin discipline when it comes to pressure pumping.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jeff to provide an operational update and come back at the end of the call to summarize.
Jeff? Thanks Dave and good morning everyone.
Let me begin with an overview of our fourth quarter results.
Overall I'm pleased with our results for the quarter.
Revenue of $7.3 billion was up 3% sequentially and represents the highest quarterly revenue in company history with record revenue from all three of our international regions our Drilling and Evaluation division and eight of our product lines.
From an operating income perspective our Latin America and Middle East/Asia regions delivered record profit in our completion tool product line which holds the number one global market share position also had record operating income.
Consolidated operating income of 981 million was flat to the previous quarter and was driven by strong performance from our international regions where we saw revenue and operating income growth of 20% and 39% respectively compared to fourth quarter of 2011.
Latin America posted an excellent quarter with revenue up 14% sequentially despite a 2% drop in the rig count and operating income increases of 25% compared to last quarter and increased drilling fluids activity along with higher software sales in Mexico and Colombia led to the growth for the region.
Also contributing to the stellar quarter was project management in Mexico followed by higher stimulation and cementing activity in Argentina.
An operational highlight this quarter was our tremendous success with various Turbopower turbine drilling tools in deepwater Brazil drilling a horizontal pre-salt well the turbine tools surpassed customer expectation achieving a record rate of penetration on its first run in the Campos Basin and saving the operator multiple days of rig time.
Moving to the Eastern Hemisphere revenue grew 11% sequentially and operating income increased 35% driven by year-end sales of software completion tools and other equipment as well as the ongoing service revenue from key contract wins that have now started up.
Now compared to the same period last year operating income has increased by over 50% which we would believe as a solid proof point that we’re successfully executing on our international strategy.
Sequentially Middle East Asia revenue and operating income increased 14% and 46% respectively.
Production enhancement led the growth with year-end equipment sales in China and increased activity in Australia and Saudi Arabia.
Also contributing were completion tool sales in Saudi Arabia Malaysia and Indonesia and higher software sales in China and Thailand.
As we continue to lead in global unconventionals there are two items to note in Middle East and Asia market.
In the fourth quarter we saw our first CleanStream unit a mechanical ultraviolet alternative to biocides and part of our CleanSuite environmental system successfully deployed in the Cooper Basin of Australia.
And in the Malay Basin we executed the first high-pressure high-temperature hydraulic fracturing job utilizing our Sirocco frac fluid.
Faster than indicated up to 10 times improvement in production against offset wells and we’re optimistic that this advancement will lead to further tight gas development in the area.
Our mature assets strategy continues to deliver with several key wins this year.
In Malaysia we were selected to provide the services to exploit the remaining reserves in the Bayan Field with the potential total value of $1.2 billion.
In the Middle East we provided production monitoring SmartWell capability.
It reduced water production by 2/3s and increased recovery factor by fold.
Turning to Europe Africa and CIS.
We saw revenue and operating income increased 8% and 23% respectively compared to the prior quarter.
The improvement was driven by the seasonally higher year-end completion tool sales in the North Sea and Angola followed by improved drilling activity in the North Sea and Russia.
Higher end of year software sales in Russia and Nigeria also contributed to the improved profitability.
In deepwater East Africa we’re awarded a six-year multi-country multi-product line contract.
This is the single largest contract award in East Africa today and is evidence of our deepwater leadership and service quality that we have been delivering in this market.
Also in the third quarter we opened the industry leading advanced perforating flow lab.
This state of the art facility allows us to simulate a wide range of downhole condition’s to evaluate perforation solutions in a controlled environment enabling us to maximize our customer’s production.
And before we move on to North America I want to be very clear on one of my top priorities as Chief Operating Officer.
While I have not met many of you you can be certain that I am dead focused on capital discipline especially in the frac equipment area.
Capital discipline to me means two things.
First that we won't to increase our horsepower capital until we’re achieving a better return on our deployed fleet and second we will not put stacked equipment back to work until it's at an acceptable contract rate.
If we have to stack more equipment to achieve these results we will do so.
Now let’s look at North America results for the fourth quarter where the market played out consistent with our previous commentary.
We saw a significant drop-off in activity in the back-half of the quarter as customers exhausted their budgets.
Our North America revenue was down 5% compared to the previous quarter right inline with the sequential 5% drop in the U.S.
land rig count.
North America operating income was down 22% sequentially driven mainly by reduced activity levels around the holidays.
Increased consumption over higher-priced supply of guar and continued pricing pressure in hydraulic frac ring as we renewed contracts.
Fourth quarter margins were also negatively impacted by the tactical decisions we made to position our business for higher future profitability.
These impacts include the upfront costs associated with our frac and the future initiative the margin impact of our continued presence in the North America natural gas basins and costs related to the idling of equipment and crews during the quarter.
And on our last call we said that we would park equipment in order to help stabilize the transactions priced market and to avoid setting a new low price point for stimulation.
We also said that we would be retiring older equipment as we upgrade to our more efficient Q10 pumps.
In keeping with these strategies during the quarter we temporary stacked 10 fleets and retired two older fleets from service.
We continue to incur the personnel costs as we retain those crews from the stack fleets.
In addition we expect that the new Q10s deployed into the North America market will be offset by the retirement of older fleets.
Now as an update to the Frac of the Future we are continuing the multiyear rollout of our Q10 pumps.
Where they are deployed we are seeing a marked improvement in terms of well-side efficiencies.
As a result of an improved operating cycle and reduced maintenance profile our Q10 fleets delivered the same capabilities as our traditional fleet with up to 20% fewer trucks on location and with fewer personnel.
In the fourth quarter we also introduced our first spread of dual-fuel Q10s into the field.
These units use both diesel and clean-burning natural gas which is more environmentally friendly than traditional pump trucks and as the infrastructure matures will position us to use the abundant supply of North American natural gas as our power source.
In the second quarter of 2012 we introduced PermStim.
And after 2 000 successful stages it has established itself as a premium fluid system.
The proprietary chemistry of this fracturing fluid results in improved well performance.
As an alternative to guar-based systems its cost profile will also protect us against escalating war costs in the future.
Regarding stimulation pricing the bulk of our customer contracts have been renewed and we expect the small remainder to be renegotiated in the early part of this year.
There is still risk of further pricing declines but we believe they are mainly behind us as there will be virtually no incremental equipment entering the market in 2013.
With respect to our other product lines we did experience some pricing pressure in specific basins; notably for those services closer to the frac.
We believe this issue is primarily related to the significant drop in activity that occurred in the fourth quarter.
And as activity levels return we would expect to see these product lines follow suit and stabilize as well.
In the Gulf of Mexico we had a record quarter in terms of both revenue and operating income.
For the year our Gulf of Mexico operation grew 37% as we gained market share during the recent activity increases.
Given the deepwater rig arrivals in 2012 and those scheduled for the back half of 2013 we anticipate this activity improvement will translate into double-digit revenue growth and higher incremental margins.
We also believe we will continue to grow our market share as these rigs move to a completion cycle on the new wells and anticipate that 2013 will be another record year for the Gulf.
So to summarize North America we have seen margin pressure in two major categories.
First the transitory ones which include our higher bar exposure the cost of our high equipment increase upfront costs associated with Frac of the Future and our ongoing commitment to operate in the gas basins.
These costs should take care of themselves as the year progresses.
The second category covers market based issues specifically around natural gas activity and excess pressure pumping capacity which in turn is affecting stimulation pricing.
These will balance out as the broader market corrects.
Given the market dynamics 2013 will be a year where we focus on driving cost out of the system.
Frac of the Future initiative will help us get there but in the meantime we've already made headcount reductions in the quarter and we're looking at areas where we can further optimize our cost structure.
As a result you may see an impact from severance in our first quarter results.
And now Mark will provide some additional financial commentary.
Mark? Thanks Jeff and good morning everyone.
Our corporate and other expense totaled $106 million this quarter and included approximately $35 million for continued investment in our Battle Red completion tools manufacturing and other strategic initiatives.
These activities will continue throughout 2013 but the related costs should begin to decline in the second half of the year.
We anticipate the impact of these investments will again be approximately $0.03 per share after-tax in the first quarter.
In total we anticipate that corporate expenses will average between $110 million and $115 million per quarter during 2013 including these strategic costs.
Our effective tax rate was 34% for the fourth quarter and 32% for the full-year 2012.
As mentioned previously we’re nearing completion of a strategic project to realign our international operations to better position us for improved delivery of our products and services to our international customers closer alignment to our international suppliers more efficient use of our field technology and an overall reduction of cost.
Some of the indirect outcomes that we expect out of this transformational initiative will be an increase in our international earnings and a wide reduction of our effective tax rate going forward.
As a result we’re currently forecasting the 2013 effective tax rate will be approximately 29% to 30%.
During the fourth quarter we recorded an $80 million tax benefit in discontinued operations related to the payment of our liability to Petrobras under a guarantee relating to work perform number of years ago on the Barracuda-Caratinga project by KBR.
As we move into 2013 we’re anticipating the typical sequential decline in international revenue and margins during the first quarter due to the absence of year-end seasonal activities as well as weather related weakness in the North Sea and Eurasia and this drop-off could be more pronounced compared to previous years due to our strong fourth quarter performance.
Compared to the first quarter of 2012 we’re anticipating a mid teen percentage increase in revenues with a modest improvement in margins which is evidence of our expanding international market share.
Beginning in the second quarter we expect international activity levels to recover from the seasonal impact and margins to steadily improve over the course of the year with full-year international margins averaging in the upper teens.
Moving on to North America we expect U.S.
rig count in the first quarter will be somewhat roughly the mirror image of the fourth quarter but down slightly on average.
Our expectation is that the rig count will improve throughout the year as activity resumes but the full-year average for 2013 will be down in the low single-digits compared to 2012.
In this activity environment we anticipate frac pricing will continue to be somewhat soft.
However for Halliburton we’ve got a very beneficial tailwind going into 2013 which is our significantly lower guar input cost.
We expect the continued activity improvement in the Gulf of Mexico will also positively contribute to margins as well as cost optimization in our North America land operations as a result of our Frac of the Future and Battle Red initiatives.
Therefore as Dave mentioned previously we are optimistic about the coming year on our ability to improve our North American margins beginning as earliest the first quarter.
As you know we've been trying to operate within our cash flows though we've also been trying to achieve higher investment yields on our excess cash.
So during 2012 we started investing in some longer-term fixed income securities that don’t meet the accounting definition of cash equivalents.
During the fourth quarter I’m proud to say our cash and investment securities increased by $779 million.
For the full-year we also achieved an increase in cash and investment securities even as we absorbed a record $3.6 billion of capital expenditures an additional $200 million of acquisitions.
We anticipate a continued reduction in working capital as a result of lower guar inventories and coupled with a lower capital spend we expect to see higher free cash flow in 2013 and we are anticipating that our CapEx for 2013 will be approximately $3 billion which is about 16% lower than our 2012 spend level.
We currently intend to direct less capital towards the North American market in our Q10 horsepower build we’ll be focused on fleet replacement.
The displaced equipment will be retired from the market and the emphasis will be on the rollout of the Q10 pump and other ancillary equipment design to advance our Frac of the Future goals.
Finally we’re expecting depreciation and amortization to be approximately $1.9 billion during 2013.
Now I’ll turn the call back over to Dave for some closing comments.
Okay thanks Mark.
Just real quickly we are very proud of our record setting fourth quarter international results.
This has been an ongoing focus of our growth strategy and I think these results bear that out.
So for 2013 we expect international margins will average in the upper teens and as we have discussed we have called the bottom on U.S.
land margins for the fourth -- as of the fourth quarter.
With our lower capital spend and improved working capital we expect to generate an even higher level of free cash flow in 2013 and we remain very focused on capital discipline.
So with that let's open it up for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from Angie Sedita of UBS.
Your line is now opened.
Angie you're line is now opened.
All right thanks.
First congratulations on the very strong fourth quarter and clearly for the year as well particularly in the international markets.
Thank you Angie.
I appreciate it.
Some folks have been critical of us chasing the international especially the deepwater market aggressively over the past few years but as I said then and I'll say now I think that it's worth it.
These are long-term markets these are long-term contracts that allow for aggressive use of our technology and aggressive up-selling opportunities.
So I think you're starting to see the payoff now and you certainly will see it for the next several years.
I agree and even better.
I would add to that that you've done it on the top line but you've also shown very strong improvements in margins also above the peer groups so a double bonus.
Yeah thank you.
So to follow-up with that your guidance for Eastern Hemisphere margins average in the high-teens slightly higher than our estimates which is obviously a positive but I assume Middle East is a big driver of that.
However you referenced E&amp;P spending in the high single-digits for 2013.
Would it seem reasonable to you that growth for revenues in 2013 could be in the low to mid double-digits and where do you expect to see the greatest strength? Angie this is Mark.
The answer is yes and we do expect to outgrow the market in line with our strategies of outgrowing the overall increase in the deepwater market which we think will be a particular strength in 2013 on the back of our market share gains in Latin America as well as some of the increased activity in unconventionals and Saudi Arabia and Australia.
And of course I should also reference the deepwater market in East Africa those will probably be areas that will be primary growth areas but we are expecting growth rate in the low single-digits -- I mean low double digits even though we're probably a bit more pragmatic about what customer spend rates will increase on a year-over-year basis in the international markets.
Right now you mentioned low-double digits for revenue growth based on what you see today? Yes.
Okay.
And then as an unrelated follow-up I know in the past you've mentioned returning capital to shareholders in 2013 is a priority.
I guess the question is is it still a priority for '13 and is there a preference for share buybacks versus a dividend or could both be considered and does the Macondo timing have any influence on this decision? That's a great question Angie and the answer is that yes it's still a priority.
We as you heard through our comments have been very focused on trying to not only just achieve a positive cash flow result but improving that cash flow result as we go into 2013.
We're in the process of finalizing our discussions with the Board and internally about our strategic initiatives for 2013.
We'll have that wrapped up in the coming weeks.
And in that discussion I think the answer is that everything is on the table but dividends share buyback I mean we certainly are staying tuned to what happens on the Macondo front but it's not an issue that will preclude us from consideration of some of those options.
And so I guess the best way that I can say is is stay tuned.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from James West of Barclays.
Your line is opened.
Good morning gentlemen.
Hi James.
And congrats again on another good quarter.
A question on North America as we look at the progression throughout this year.
I mean you've got clearly some tailwinds with guar the Gulf of Mexico some improving U.S.
land rig count.
But you’ve talked in the past about normalized North American margins you’re much higher than where they’re today.
Is that something that’s possible to get too in this type of environment where we’ve less slowly growing U.S.
rig count or is this more likely when we get back to a better environment in ’14? This is Mark again.
I think James the answer to that is that probably in the slower growing environment where we continue to see some pressure around pricing in the broad market and a – its going to be difficult sort of close up the excess capacity situation until we see some meaningful increase in the gas rig activity.
I think that’s also going to mean that its going to be difficult to get us back to normalized margins which we still believe are in the mid 20s for Halliburton.
Right.
And so we – as we said we’re calling the bottom we see that at least the things that we perceive this tailwinds to our margin situation sort of trump the continued pressure that we will feel in frac pricing and possibly – peripherally in some of the other product service lines that are little bit – they’re closer to the frac than others.
But I think that its just – its going to be difficult to drive them up back to those sort of historic normalized levels without a – what we sort of perceive is a normalized rig count environment which includes a healthy dose of gas activity.
Okay.
So but you would suggest though that healthy margin gains is not getting back to that what you see is normalized? Yes.
That’s right.
Okay.
And then just one follow-up for me on the fracture side obviously a few more contracts to rollover but some of the initial rollovers of your longer term contracts would have happened when pricing was still above where it is today.
Do you – can you give us maybe some help on percentage of contracts that maybe or above what you think pricing is in the market today and how many rollover as we go through the year? Yeah thanks James.
This is Jeff.
I think the – those contracts tend to roll each year so we’re working our way through the bulk of those.
So from a competitive standpoint as we look out we’ve probably 8% of our business under contract and so we don’t see a huge step down that will occur sort of resetting the prices from the first quarter that with last year.
Yeah I think James let me add one thing.
Obviously as Jeff said about 80% of our stuff is under contract and yeah we have some of the stuff that while the year ago at this time rolling over now but if we don’t see a price that’s acceptable to us we may just roll it on a month-to-month basis there’s nothing that says you are required to roll it from year-to-year and in some cases we won't do it because we don’t want to get locked into a price we don’t like so we’ll just go on more a month-to-month or quarter-to-quarter basis.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Waqar Syed of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is now opened.
Research Division</strong> Thank you very much and congratulations on a great quarter.
A couple of things and first of all on the North American margin front; could you help us little bit understand the trajectory here could you quantify on the margin front like you know what kind of how guar could provide in the first quarter? This is Mark Waqar.
I don’t think we want to give specific margin guidance; we’re trying to step away from that for competitive reasons.
But I think we have been fairly transparent that the guar situation or Halliburton impacted us through the end of the third quarter about 600 basis points.
In the fourth quarter that went up because we stepped back our usage of PermStim and tried to drive harder on using some of the higher-priced guar so the marginal impact in Q4 of guar as compared to the pricing of guar back in January of 2012 was about 650 basis points.
And then the difference in margins I would say roughly from there is split about 50-50 on pricing and activity in the fourth quarter and so I guess if that kind of gives you some roadmap as we then step back we’ll wrap up this quarter using that higher-priced guar average in lower sort of market based guar pricing into our inventory averages that should take us down.
Now the difference in – I think I’ve also articulated that we sort of triangulate the difference in our guar pricing and our competitors has been in our view about 400 basis points or so through the third quarter and I think that that maybe another market you kind of see as we start rolling back that’s the big opportunity that we have vis-à-vis our competitors.
Research Division</strong> Secondly just on the pressure pumping revenue growth side obviously November and December were impacted by the holiday season but when you compare the month of October how did that compare with the third quarter? I'm sorry your question is on our just overall activity? Research Division</strong> Activity on the revenues in pressure pumping or C&amp;P in the month of October how did that compare to the third quarter? Do you see any uptick or do you see continued decline in October versus the prior…? Yeah the month of October actually was very strong for us.
It was a really good month and in fact early part of November was really strong too.
As we looked at the market overall we saw a fairly modest step down in the rigs at least our activity through Thanksgiving and then a more dramatic step between Thanksgiving and December 15th.
But we sort of triangulate if you look across the overall rig count most of the rig count drop happened in the last three weeks of December and kind of bottom fell out and our triangulation about 80 rigs went out of the market in the last three weeks of the month.
And our business tended to follow that and we think that that maybe overall for the entire quarter at least our calculations about 170 rigs went out.
So it kind of gives you a sense of 50% on the three weeks.
Does that help? Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jim Wicklund of Credit Suisse.
Your line is now opened.
Good morning guys and thank you for making me look smarter than I really am.
You're welcome Jim.
Jeff a question whenever a company management talks about a transformational event my ears perk up.
You were talking about the strategic reorganization supply chain.
Can you wax poetic for me for a few minutes on that and the implications of that? Yeah thanks Jim.
We call it Battle Red but it's a combination of rolling out our Q10 technology which is more efficient it runs at a lower cost point and allows us to take people off-location.
So that's part of that.
It's broader though because we're also doing things in the back office with smartphone technology which has been rolled out through a large degree.
It also allows us to take out a lot of back office costs.
So from a transformational standpoint it's lower -- it's surface efficiency or lower cost per BOE for our clients but then also internally to make sure that we're taking advantage of really what's possible today from smartphone sort of computational platform.
And you mentioned this both internationally and domestically? Starting domestically.
At some point it would move internationally.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
And my follow-up question can you guys give us some help on the magnitude of year-end sales for the international market? Just so we can kind of normalize expectations going forward.
I know that Baker Hughes their end of year sales were double last year.
Just give us some idea because obviously you did fabulous in the international markets? We don't typically try to give that much of detailed information on our direct sales so I apologize.
It certainly was a step up from where we had been on a year-over-year basis.
It was a little bit higher.
But in terms of our expectation it was kind of in line.
We saw more direct sales in our completion and production division than we had seen in prior years some equipment and things into China and that probably was sort of year-over-year difference that we had.
But clearly -- I mean it's going to be a big step down in Q1 I think in line with what everybody else has said they will have an impact but in terms of our -- as I said on the call our growth on a year-over-year basis is still going to be about 16% roughly.
Jim that's what Mark said I think in the call maybe we weren't as clear as we should have been.
If you just compare where we think we'll be Q1 2013 to Q1 2012 we'll be up about 16%.
So that's in my view sort of normalizes out the product sales and tells you sort of what -- sort of service revenue increase we're looking at year-over-year.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Kurt Hallead of RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is now opened.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Dave thanks for that clarity.
I’m a little bit slow can you just say that one more time that up 16% was at first quarter – the first quarter or second quarter the second quarter? No.
Its first – its first quarter of 2012 to first quarter of 2013.
And that should be up 16%.
LLC Research Division</strong> International okay.
Great.
International.
LLC Research Division</strong> Thanks for clarifying that.
Now in terms of the North American market you guys indicated some pricing pressures of some other product lines but those that were more closely related to frac so can I take that to mean that you’re really not seeing any pricing pressures for any of your drilling related service lines at this juncture and what would be your perspective on expectation for pricing pressures in those product lines going forward? Yeah this is Jeff.
We look ahead – I mean look through the fourth quarter and we saw mostly activity declines having an impact which we think right itself to the degree next year.
So from a pricing pressure perspective we’re not seeing that now.
As we look out into next year we don’t see that we don’t see the over supply necessarily the same way as we’ve seen in frac so we’re not seeing it.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my final one here is just in the rack you guys indicated the matching new product checked its been a drag on international margins so on and so forth.
I was wondering if you could give us some rough guidelines as to what that impact had been and are you guys still on schedule to – for that project to roll-off I think with sometime here in the second quarter right? Yes.
In the second quarter of 2013 the project should come to an end.
Over the last quarter we had much better rig performance things have been looking up the performance in our rack overall was significantly better in Q4 and basically a breakeven.
So we feel good about how things are shaping up.
We got some new contract work going into 2013 in that market and scale helps from an absorption standpoint so we’re continuing to press forward and hopefully once this [launch] – new project behind us which at this point as long as we’re executing it shouldn’t be an issue.
What we’re really trying to do is to move beyond and put ourselves in a firmly profitable standpoint which we believe will happen during 2013 sort of toward the middle of the year.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jim Crandell of Dahlman Rose.
Your line is now opened.
Thank you and let me add to the previous comments.
Great job Dave in the quarter and for the year as a whole.
Thanks.
My question has to do with – with Russia and you highlighted a contract with BP-TNK in the quarter; could you one give us some ideas to the significance of that contract win and then secondly your market position in Russia let’s just say well below your normal market share especially given this and I would imagine that that’s – that this is a real area of emphasis for you because of the size of the Russian market given it's the second largest market in the world.
Can you talk about your strategy in Russia and whether you think you can get up to your desired market position through internal development or do you think acquisitions of maybe existing Russian companies have to play a part in that? Yeah thanks Jim.
The contract we referred to is Em-Yoga which is our mature field type activity if we’re able to go in and prove really the breadth of our technology so in fact rediscovering reservoirs and then adding to those so we are excited about that it's the leading edge of what we think could be more to come.
So I won't give you numbers in terms of significance but it's I think consistent with our strategy to use our consulting capability to not just pull through our services but actually develop new thoughts and new applications of existing technology as well more broadly with respect to Russia it's a place where we are excited about the outlook.
We think we’ve got the right team on the ground.
We think we’re – have the right technology as that market moves more into what I’d say is our sweet spot around multistage fracturing and some other types of mature field activity.
We would expect that to grow with respect to M&amp;A.
I mean we always consider those things but I don't think it's a requirement.
Are you saying that you think you can get up to what's a normal or are you saying you can get up to what you would consider to be an acceptable or normal market share position just by internal growth.
I mean you’re like one-fourth the size of (indiscernible) maybe half the size of Weatherford in Russia? Yeah Jim let me handle this.
Yeah there's no doubt that our market share in Russia is not consistent with the market share that we would like or we experience in other parts of the world but my view is we got to be smart about this.
And there are certainly organic growth opportunities to grow in Russia and we are growing our business there.
But for us to get up to the size of some of our competitors we would have to look at some major M&amp;A.
And as you know we've talked about this many times with you and sort of with a broader group we are focused on returns and focused on capital discipline.
So my view is that the need to be larger in Russia does not trump the need to continue to be focused on capital discipline.
So I'm not going to go out and do a major M&amp;A deal in Russia just to get a revenue base that's the same size as our competitors but really never generates the kind of returns that we want to see off of that.
So I would say that the book is still open on it but we don't feel any particular corporate need to go out and get a lot bigger in Russia because we're not going to do it and sacrifice margins and returns.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jud Bailey of ISI Group.
Your line is now opened.
Thanks.
Good morning.
And again congratulations on good results.
I was wondering if you could give us a little more detail on Brazil as you guys kind of get ramped up down there with some of your recent gains and just help us think about how we think about revenues growing as the drilling contract kicks in and maybe margins and startup costs there that you may incur? The interesting thing is there's still some of the contracts that have not been completely approved or signed.
And so we've been in a transitional period for a number of months on things like drilling that's actually allowed us to -- we've been mobilizing but that actually allowed us to kind of spread the cost sum to take off some of the brunt that what otherwise might appear more difficult in terms of a margin environment.
But from an activity standpoint the activity is beginning to pick up.
Brazil grew very dramatically for us in 2012.
We expect that to continue to grow.
We'll be putting the infrastructure capital to work in that area.
We have a new technology center that has continued to expand and working with some very specific projects with Petrobras down there we're pretty excited about and those are going to begin to show themselves.
So I guess from our standpoint we feel very very good about what Brazil will do in 2013.
This sort of the challenge is on.
We also feel great about Mexico some pretty exciting things happening in Mexico.
In the Latin American environment we've kind of got a horse race going on in that market as to who's going to sort of get the revenue poll and growth crown there.
I think you should stay tuned for a very good 2013 coming on Latin America again just like 2012.
All right.
So just to make sure I'm clear.
So it sounds like in terms of Brazil any way you've already incurred some of the start-up costs and mobilization costs but haven't really felt the impact of the revenue yet and that will probably come in in 1Q 2Q.
Is that fair to say? I think that's fair to say yes.
Okay.
But again as we look at it and plan and kind of in our margin forecast the great thing that's happened as a result of the expansion of our share there is while yeah there's some pricing impacts of that new revenue the higher level of activity is allowing absorption of fixed cost base that's sort of blunting the impact of that lower price.
And so on a marginal basis our margins in Brazil have continued to improve over this point of time even though some of the contracts have already kicked in at lower pricing.
Okay that's good color.
Thank you.
And if I could just my follow-up would just be one more on North America.
You guys have done a pretty good job of kind of articulating how you see that market evolving over the course of the year.
I'm just curious – I know the month isn't over yet but I'm just curious how has activity or customer enquiries been so far in January maybe relative to your expectations 60 days ago? Yeah we’re seeing it not the way we thought it would roll out last quarter which is we saw the – seasonal declines kind of between Thanksgiving and New Year’s and then but then I’ve seen as customer budgets were exhausted and towards the end of the year we’re seeing the mild – the uptick that we were expecting to see kind of end of January as kind of our key customers get back to work.
Thank you.
Our next question will come from Brad Handler of Jefferies.
Your line is now opened.
Inc.</strong> Thanks good morning guys.
Hi how are you doing? Inc.</strong> Good thanks.
Maybe I guess to the degree that you feel that you can’t speak about it maybe you can give us an update on the MDL process here in front of the trial start data in late February.
Any comments you can make on potential negotiations with the class action group et cetera.
I think that probably the easiest thing to say the trial is still scheduled to start in late February we’re moving forward hard towards that process the lawyers have been sort of furiously working through all of the discovery actions in preparation for the trial.
That is our course at this point.
I know there’s been some other activities with the other participants in the trial but at this data I’d say nothing there’s been no discussions on our side or our path and so our general view is we’re moving to litigation and that’s what our preparations are set to do.
Inc.</strong> Okay got it.
That’s helpful.
Maybe just an unrelated follow-up maybe helps to [cheers] up even though it's at some level I appreciate that this can be a bit misleading but the last couple of years have been marked to maybe more so the I guess the ’11 and ’12 but they’ve been marked by some very sizable tenders particularly in the offshore environments and that’s a lot of due to grab very significant market share as you guys have discussed.
Are there as ’13 emerges are there -- sort of how many significant kind of tender’s are you looking at? Should we expect to see that that’s another chance to seize more market share or have some degree of those large tenders sort of – do they wind down now? Now without being specific with respect to tenders our backlog as we look out into the next year or so it’s probably bigger than it’s ever been in terms of opportunities [set] so those tend to be out there quite often and yes some big ones occurred last year but we’re pretty confident that there will be opportunities to win.
I was saying that it's always very competitive in those large tender situations and so if we go out at those carefully with always a solid plan on how we make the returns that we want to make just look back to last year kind of putting the eastern hemisphere numbers together as evidence of that.
Now I would let me just add a little color to it.
I think as Jeff has said the opportunities at our pipeline as we call it is probably as big as it's ever been but what's not there either big mega must win kinds of tenders it's just – it's a lot of small to medium sized tenders that are out there and that add up to the biggest pipeline that we’ve ever seen.
So we think that’s a good thing because with the infrastructure we put down and some of the track record we still have developed off of some of these prior tenders I think that it's put us on the map in some of the customers eyes of looking at us as a real alternative on some of these which again is why we’re so excited about what we see going forward in the international and especially the offshore and deepwater markets.
And with that I think we’ve went past our time.
So I wanted to on behalf of the Halliburton management team thank you for your participation today and Sam you can go ahead and close the call.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes today’s program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Halliburton first quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
[Operator instructions.]  As a reminder this conference may be recorded.
I’d now like to introduce your host for today's conference Kelly Youngblood.
Sir you may begin.
Thanks operator.
Good morning and welcome to the Halliburton first quarter 2013 conference call.
Today's call is being webcast and a replay will be available on Halliburton's website for seven days.
The press release announcing the first quarter results is available on Halliburton website.
Joining me today are Dave Lesar CEO; Jeff Miller COO; and Mark McCollum CFO.
Tim Probert president of strategy and corporate development will also be available today for follow-up calls.
I would like to remind our audience that some of today's comments may include forward-looking statements reflecting Halliburton's views about future events and their potential impact on performance.
These matters involve risks and uncertainties that could impact operations and financial results and cause our actual results to materially differ from our forward-looking statements.
These risks are discussed in Halliburton's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2012 and recent current reports on Form 8-K.
Our comments include non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in the press release announcing the fourth quarter results which as I have mentioned can be found on our website.
In our discussion today we will be excluding the impact of these items on our financial results unless otherwise noted.
We welcome questions after we complete our prepared remarks.
We ask that you please limit yourself to one question and one related follow-up to allow more time for others who have questions.
Now I'll turn the call over to Dave.
Dave? Thank you Kelly and good morning to everyone.
Let me begin by saying that our results for the first quarter played out pretty much as we said it would on our last call.
Our international operations were impacted by the normal seasonal drop off in the first quarter but revenues and operating income expanded significantly compared to the prior year as we outgrew our primary competitors.
Sequentially our North America margins improved substantially as we worked through the guar issue and got our equipment back to work as customers refreshed their budgets.
Total company revenue of $7 billion was a record for a Halliburton first quarter and operating income was $902 million.
Our Sperry Drilling Mult-Chem and Baroid product lines achieved record revenues this quarter and from an operating income perspective Baroid and drill bits also set new records.
I’m very pleased with our results in North America where we saw nearly a 400 basis point sequential improvement to our margins as we work through our remaining high-priced guar inventory saw activity levels rebound from the dramatic drop off seen at the end of the fourth quarter and began to see cost savings materialize from our Battle Red and Frac of the Future initiatives.
The U.S.
land rig count averaged 3% lower in the first quarter versus the prior quarter.
However despite reduced overall rig activity horizontal rigs were up sequentially and we expect this trend to continue especially in areas like the Permian Basin.
Coupled with the increased adoption of pad drilling and 24-hour operations we expect to see even higher service intensity.
We believe that the oil directed rig count will grow moderately from current levels as our customers continue to evaluate the pace which they can more efficiently drill in complete wells.
We believe this continued shift towards efficiency will bode well for us in the coming years as no other company has the ability to execute factory type operations as efficiently as Halliburton.
Recently we have seen an uptick in natural gas prices.
However our outlook for gas activity this year has not materially changed.
We believe we will need to see sustained pricing improvements before gas activity will meaningfully increase.
With the exception of the Marcellus where we are already very active our view is that natural gas drilling will not be a major activity driver in 2013 in the U.S.
The availability of associated gas and shut in gas to meet market demand will likely delay a meaningful uptick in new well drilling.
If we see improvement in the gas basins it will be late in the year although we are becoming increasingly optimistic about gas activity in 2014.
That all being said let me remind you that we called the fourth quarter as the bottom for North America margins and our first quarter results bear that out.
Even with the spring breakup in Canada we continue to expect North America margins will expand over the balance of 2013 subject to the usual year-end seasonality.
Turning now to the international markets we continue to successfully execute our growth strategy.
Relative to the first quarter of 2012 we grew revenues by 21% which is the highest among our primary peers and is clear evidence of our expanding global market share.
In fact compared to our two primary competitors we have delivered leading year over year international growth now for the last four quarters.
In addition eastern hemisphere grew operating income by an outstanding 39% relative to the first quarter of 2012 which is also the highest in our peer group.
We did experience the typical sequential decline in revenue and margins during the first quarter due to the absence of seasonally higher year-end software and product sales as well as the normal first quarter seasonal weakness in the North Sea Eurasia and Australia.
Our thinking for the full year internationally remains consistent.
We are forecasting year over year international revenue growth in the low teens and continue to expect our average full year international margins will be in the upper teens.
In Latin America I’m happy to announce that we’ve received a final award approval from Petrobras for both the high tech directional drilling and testing contracts.
These four-year contracts with extensions for up to another four years include drilling logging while drilling and integrated test and services in both the pre-salt and post-salt formations in the Brazilian offshore market.
In both these cases we won the leading market position in Brazil and more importantly in the drilling award we won the largest package even though we were not the lowest bidder.
Together the potential estimated value of these hard-fought contracts is more than $2 billion which is expected to significantly increase our position in the largest deep water market in the world.
These wins are a testament to the ongoing success of our strategy to provide long term advanced technology solutions to our customers will increase in a leadership position in the global deep water market.
There’s no doubt Latin America was a disappointment from a margin standpoint in the first quarter.
But the issues were one-off in nature as we saw activity delays incurred increased severance costs in Argentina cost to mobilize in our new deep water contracts in Brazil and a significant rate count reduction in our Mexico IPM projects as we wait on our large contracts to retender.
I fully expect Latin America margins to improve moderately in the second quarter and to average in the upper teens for the second half of the year.
Our growth strategy going forward remains the same.
It is clearly working well and does not need to be changed.
We will continue to focus on strengthening our global position in deep water unconventionals and mature fields and we continue to be relentlessly focused on industry leading returns.
I am optimistic about the remainder of the year our ability to continue rebuilding North American margins and realizing continued revenue and margin growth in our international business.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Jeff to provide operational highlights.
Thanks Dave and good morning everyone.
Let me begin with an overview of our first quarter results.
Latin America revenues grew 21% compared to the same quarter last year driven by an expanding revenue base in Mexico Brazil and Venezuela and from a product line perspective the growth was driven by Sperry Drilling Baroid Fluids and consulting and project management.
Year over year operating income was down 11% primarily due to activity delays and higher costs in Argentina and mobilization costs for the recent contract wins in Brazil.
In addition to the deep water Brazil wins David discussed already we had several highlights with unconventional activity in Latin America this quarter.
In Argentina we provided integrated completion services for an independent operator on the largest volume shale well ever pumped in the country.
This quarter also marked the first international application of PermStim our premium guar alternative where we designed a customer fluid treatment on a shale well in north Mexico.
The eastern hemisphere headline is that compared to the first quarter of 2012 revenue grew by 21% and operating income increased 39%.
And though we experienced the typical sequential decline in revenue and margin during the first quarter we did not see the severity of weather disruption typically experienced during the first quarter.
In the Middle East Asia region compared to prior year revenue and operating income increased 25% and 51% respectively.
We saw the largest growth in the Australia China and Saudi Arabia markets.
This improved performance reflects the successful startup and execution of contract awards throughout 2012.
Specific to Saudi Arabia we saw over 30% revenue growth relative to the first quarter of 2012 and it’s expected to be one of our top growth areas in 2013.
Notably during the quarter we received a direct award for two additional rigs on our south guar project and we deployed the first complete rapid suite sliding sleeve system in the country.
To support further unconventional development in the region we are look forward to opening our [unintelligible] gas technology center in Saudi Arabia later this year In addition operations in Iraq posted a profitable quarter and as we refine our portfolio of projects we expect operations to remain profitable for the year.
Also of note our Multi-Chem product line took a significant step forward on its eastern hemisphere footprint expanding operations with the win in India.
This quarter also marked the opening of our completion technology and manufacturing center in Singapore.
The center is already delivering high quality completion tools through our eastern hemisphere operations and helping to drive additional revenue growth and cost improvements.
Turning to Europe Africa and CIS relative to the first quarter of 2012 we saw revenue and operating income increase 17% and 25% respectively.
The improvement was driven by higher activity levels in the North Sea Eurasia Nigeria and Central Africa markets.
In Angola we recently secured a wireline formation evaluation logging contract on a deep water pre-salt block for a large independent operator and in Norway we were awarded a multiyear contract with Statoil to improve production through multilateral solutions on a mature offshore field.
Across the Europe Africa and CIS region we’re seeing an uptick in the adoption of unconventional technology.
For example we’re seeing increased use of multistage fracturing across the region and expanded application of rotary steerables and sliding sleeve technology in developing the tight oil fields of Russia.
These are markets with terrific potential for unconventional development and we are excited about further adoption of our technologies to help clients develop their resources.
Moving to North America revenue was down 1% compared to the previous quarter.
That’s relative to a 3% sequential drop in the U.S.
land rig count.
Operating income was up 30% sequentially driven by lower water cost increasing service intensity and early cost savings resulting from our Frac of the Future and Battle Red initiatives.
Starting with guar the quarter shaped up as expected with large low-cost guar deliveries early in the quarter significantly reducing our full quarter average cost.
Given the first quarter exit rate for completion activity our average guar cost should be at market rate by the end of the second quarter.
At the end of the first quarter approximately 85% of our crews were under long term contracts and about three-quarters were working 24-hour operations.
At this point I’d like to say a few words on stimulation pricing.
As we finish the quarter virtually all of our long term hydraulic fracturing contracts have been renewed.
Due to the timing of contract startups we will see some additional pricing impact on our margins in the second quarter as some recently renegotiated contracts went into effect at the beginning of April.
However we believe the worst of the pricing pressure is behind us.
To support our focus on improving pricing trends we will continue to execute our stated strategy around surface efficiencies custom chemistry and subsurface technology delivering differentiated services which generate superior returns over the long term.
Our fleets are sold out today and are aligned with customers where we can create the most value for them and deliver the best returns for Halliburton.
I believe our first quarter performance indicates we’re on the right track and as a result I’m not going to comment on any tit for tat reports on pricing because I feel they are normally self-serving and anecdotal and I expect that you see them the same way.
With respect to our other product lines we’ve experienced some pricing pressure in specific basins but there has not been a meaningful impact on our margins.
The pressure’s been focused on cementing [unintelligible] wireline and directional drilling primarily in areas with lower technology requirements and therefore smaller competitors in the market.
However we believe that as activity levels continue to improve throughout the year this pricing pressure will subside and our cost optimization initiatives will help offset any further pricing pressures on those service lines.
We’re also beginning to have more meaningful discussions with our clients around the technology to make better wells which we believe may signal the leading edge of pricing improvement.
We’re increasingly optimistic that even in a market with flat or moderately improved rig count we will continue to see a shift to pad well activity and more 24-hour operations.
It is our view that the resulting increased well count and stage count could absorb a meaningful percentage of the excess horsepower and help drive service intensity across the product lines.
In the Gulf of Mexico first quarter activity was impacted by [bolt] maintenance issues on [BOP stacks].
We expect strong revenue and profit growth for the year but weighted more to the second half.
We believe we will continue to grow our market share as rigs move to a completion cycle on new wells and we are well-positioned to lead the market and lower tertiary completions.
A good example of how we differentiate ourselves is our enhanced single trip multizone system which can quickly isolate and stimulate multiple zones in a lower tertiary formation saving operators weeks of rig time and substantially improving the economics of these ultra-deep wells.
For a major operator in the Gulf we’ve already documented an average savings of 18 rig days per well by applying this single-trip technology.
I like our position in North America and believe it’s only going to get better going forward.
The guar issue is largely behind us and we anticipate better cost optimization will result from our strategic initiatives.
We anticipate activity levels will improve through a combination of modest rig count growth and continued drilling efficiencies over the course of the year.
I want to conclude with our key areas of focus.
First we are committed to improving our North America margins.
We’ve seen a dramatic improvement this quarter but we’re not finished.
Second we’re committed to growing our international revenues and margins and achieving a better geographic balance in our business going forward.
And finally we remain focused on capital discipline and ensuring that we generate the highest returns in our peer group.
And now Mark will provide some additional financial commentary.
Mark? Thanks Jeff and good morning everyone.
Our results for the first quarter reflect a $637 million net of tax accrual to increase our contingency reserve related to the Macondo multidistrict litigation.
The accrual this quarter is in addition to the $191 million net of tax accrual made in the first quarter of 2012.
Over the past month or so we’ve participated in court-facilitated settlement discussions with some of the parties included in the multidistrict litigation with the goal of resolving a substantial portion of the private claims against us in this matter.
These discussions are at an advanced stage although they’ve not yet resulted in a settlement and the accrual is based on where we are in the negotiations at the present time.
Our most recent offering includes both stock and cash with the cash components payable over an extended period of time.
We’re pursuing these settlement discussions in earnest because we believe that an early and reasonably valued resolution is in the best interest of our shareholders.
However a settlement of this magnitude is complex and requires the other settling parties to be reasonable on their part too.
From a litigation standpoint we continue to believe that we have substantial legal arguments and defenses against any liability and that BP is contractually required to indemnify us as described more fully in our public filings.
Therefore if our settlement discussions are not successful we’re fully prepared to see this matter to conclusion in the courts.
As the [MBL] trial and other investigations progress we’re constantly monitoring and evaluating developments and it’s possible that we may need to adjust our reserve estimate up or down in the future.
Our reserve estimate also does not include any potential recoveries from our insurers.
Because we’re engaged in ongoing settlement discussions and active trial proceedings we will not be taking any Macondo related questions today.
Excluding the charge related to the Macondo litigation our corporate and other expense totaled $120 million this quarter and included approximately $37 million for continued investment in our Battle Red completion tools manufacturing and other strategic initiatives.
Some of these initiatives will continue throughout 2013 but the related costs should begin to decline in the second half of the year.
We anticipate the impact of these investments will again be approximately $0.03 per share after tax in the second quarter.
Our legal costs have also increased during the Macondo trial so in total we anticipate that corporate expenses will average between $120 million and $130 million per quarter for the remainder of the year.
I’m pleased to say that we’re already beginning to see the payoff of the investments we’ve made over the last few years such as the recent opening of the Singapore manufacturing center a material reduction in our effective tax rate and finally cost optimization related to our Battle Red initiative.
Next quarter we intend to give you a further quantification of the expected savings we can realize from our Battle Red and Frac of the Future programs.
During the quarter we were positively impacted by retroactive federal tax benefits of $50 million resulting in an adjusted first quarter effective tax rate of approximately 23% excluding the charge related to the Macondo litigation.
Due to the benefits from the strategic realignment of our international operations we completed last year and the continued expansion of our international business for the remaining quarters of the year we expect the effective tax rate will be approximately 29% a 300-basis point improvement over our 2012 rate.
Also during the quarter we announced a 39% increase to our dividend and the commencement of stock repurchases under our existing buyback authorization of $1.7 billion.
Going forward our intention is for the dividend to represent at least 15% to 20% of our net income.
As a result of the Macondo settlement discussions in the first quarter we were unable to repurchase a significant amount of shares.
We plan however to be much more aggressive in our second quarter repurchase activity following the anticipated completion of our SEC filings later this week.
Our capital expenditure guidance of approximately $3 billion for the full year 2013 remains unchanged.
For our international bus as we move into the second quarter we’re anticipating a moderate improvement in revenue as we recover from the first quarter seasonal drop off.
And we expect margins to approach the mid teens.
For North America we anticipate a modest improvement in the U.S.
rig count in the second quarter.
However given the stronger U.S.
activity levels in the first quarter coupled with the typical second quarter drop off in Canadian activity due to spring break up we only expect a slight improvement in sequential revenues for the second quarter.
North America margins should be positively impacted by another 100 basis points or so as our average guar cost continues to decline to market levels.
We anticipate also that marginal improvement from U.S.
activity levels will be largely offset by pricing from late first quarter contract renewals and by Canadian activity disruptions due to spring breakup.
Now I’ll turn the call back over to Dave for some closing comments.
Okay thanks Mark.
So in summary we’re very proud of our strong year over year international growth which was the highest in our peer group and a solid proof point that we are executing well against our strategy.
Our overall international outlook for the year has not changed.
We expect revenues will grow in the area of the low teens and expect full year margins will average in the upper teens.
Specifically for Latin America we had some temporary activity declines and one-off charges across the region but it doesn’t change our outlook for the full year.
The North America headwinds from last year are largely behind us and we are optimistic about activity levels and continued margin improvement for the remainder of the year.
And lastly with respect to ongoing Macondo settlement discussions we are working hard to come to a reasonable settlement that will be in the best interest of our shareholders.
So at that point let’s open it up for questions.
[Operator instructions.]  Our first question comes from James West of Barclays.
Your line is now open.
Dave when I saw you back in January and February there were two things that really stuck out in my mind from our conversations.
One was that on the international side you talked about the opportunity set being really the largest you’d ever seen.
And then number two that this was really the time to test pricing in the international markets.
I’m wondering if we could kind of revisit that if you could talk about that opportunity set.
Is it still as large as you thought a couple of months ago?  And then really the second is on the pricing side are you starting to see some more pricing discipline from your competition?  Or are you starting to see pricing rise? Yeah I think with respect to the first comment the opportunity set in the international markets remains as large as it has been and I think the largest set that we’ve certainly seen within recent history.
So those opportunities haven’t gone away.
I think the other point that I should make is that with the Brazil tendering process behind us the opportunity set is a whole lot of sort of medium-sized types of opportunities.
It’s not any big mega types of tenders out there.
Which gives us and our competitors I think an opportunity to sort of test where we are in terms of pricing.
If you look at where we are bidding today and where we’re winning work I think we certainly have hit the bottom in terms of international pricing.
Believe me it’s still competitive.
But I believe that we’re seeing that it is starting to turn up.
Okay and then maybe just one follow up on Mexico.
We’ve got some contract retendering that has to go through.
How long is that process expected to take before you can get back to work there? There are a couple of big things that happen sort of mid year.
So I would expect that through the process we’ll see some sorting out of budgets early at the end of Q1 and then tenders mid year.
It’s probably later in the year before budgets are refreshed and back to work.
But I would expect during the balance of this year we’d see that.
I think one other thing I might add is that on these contracts we’ve gotten extensions on a number of them but it’s been at a rig count that’s less than what we had been working at while we wait on these tenders to come forward.
And that’s really part of the reason that the margins have got squeezed.
But as I said we look at that as sort of a one-off issue.
Our next question comes from Waqar Syed of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is now open.
My question relates to North America.
It seems the margin improvement was much higher than we expected.
It feels better than what you expected as well.
Could you provide Mark what was the source of the upward surprise in margins in the first quarter? As we look at it we thought probably just given a lower level of activity expected in Q1 that we would only get a couple hundred basis points from guar savings.
I think the Street knows that we had said that we thought we could get 400 to 450 basis points of improvement in our North America margins from the turn in our guar inventories.
We I think in the first quarter just given the higher activity levels got about 300 basis points of that savings on guar which leaves the remaining 100 or so for the second quarter which I talked about in my prepared comments.
The rest of it really when you look at it is activity-related.
Very strong activity for us.
We got our crews back to work much faster than we thought we would on the pressure pumping side.
When you look across our drilling and evaluation divisions they did extremely well.
We saw almost 200 basis points of marginal improvement across D&amp;E as well.
So all the activity increase for us just well exceeded the pressure that we saw from continued pricing that we had from rolling some of our pressure pumping contracts in the first quarter.
And this is the first time that I’ve heard you guys be positive on the pricing front as well.
What gives you that confidence that pricing could pick up later in the year? The conversations that we’re having with clients these days are becoming more geared towards making better wells which leads very quickly into a discussion around chemistry and chemistry application.
And those are applications of our technology and so maybe not today but that’s the leading edge of the right discussion to have with a company like Halliburton because we do make better wells when we use that technology.
Our next question comes from Jeff Tillery of Tudor Pickering.
Your line is now open.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
</strong>  The reported rig counts we can see activity has trended pretty flattish over the last month in the U.S.
Just wanted to hear kind of your discussion your viewpoint on activity second and third quarter and what gives you confidence there will be uptick from here? A combination of things.
We see increases in pad drilling.
That obviously drives service intensity for us.
You heard my discussion around leading edge of technology application.
And those things combined start to take us to more efficient operations where we’re using our equipment.
The second thing is really alignment with the clients that appreciate our efficiency level.
And so as we position our equipment in the basins and with the clients that want that sort of efficiency we expect to see improvement.
So in spite of say rig count modestly increasing both our share of it and the speed with which that activity happens can increase.
When you look at the well count yeah overall it didn’t look that great but the horizontal rig count was up.
If you look inside of that the rig count went up with the customers whom we work for.
A lot of the majors.
And then thirdly we focus more dramatically on well count.
And when we look at activity across the quarter well count was up and so was our service intensity around stage counts.
And so that drives improved performance as Jeff said when you’re aligned with the right customers doing the right type of work with good technology.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
</strong> And my second question is just as you look out if you think about exiting this year North American margins were quite a bit better than I had thought.
We’re going to see international margin improve during the course of the year.
I would still expect international margins to exceed North America to exit the year.
Do you agree with that? No I wouldn’t necessarily agree with that.
I think it will be a horse race as the year progresses.
Certainly North America is getting better but we’ve still got excess capacity in the North America market that we’ll be dealing with so there is some pricing pressure that they’re facing.
Right now as the international operations expand and on their base and the improvement that we see I think that they could actually eclipse the North America margin in the year.
But it will be very very close.
Our next question comes from Angie Sedita of UBS.
Your line is now open.
Just to be clear when you’re talking about North America and modest price increases as customers adopt new technology.
Is this specifically in frac?  Or in other product lines? This is all product lines.
So this is about making better wells which is a function of well construction and completions.
But I will say these are the leading edge of discussions around how to do it.
So very encouraged by the discussions which means there’s an appreciation for the technology of how better producing wells are made.
And then on North American frac capacity assuming that we do see another 6-7% growth in the rig count in 2013 and as we’ve discussed here growth in the well count and i.e.
rig efficiencies do you believe that the frac market could actually be balanced by early 2014 or even late 2013? Really Q1 played out very close to what we thought it would maybe a little bit better activity.
We always thought as we looked ahead that there still would be some excess capacity in the frac market maybe in the 10-15% level too much frac capacity.
That could get absorbed very very quickly in the early part of 2014 based on what we’re seeing.
And our next question comes from Bill Herbert of Simmons &amp; Co.
Your line is now open.
Back to North America here real quickly.
You guys have addressed this in some facets but not necessarily in others.
I guess my question is you came into the year with a decent inventory [of drill bit] uncompleted wells.
That helped propel better completions activity versus drilling activity in Q1.
Drilling activity hasn’t been all that brisk year to date.
And yet you guys are waxing confident about the runway remaining for the next quarter or so.
At least that’s my interpretation.
Can you give us some more granularity as to which markets look better?  Which markets look worse?  And specific discussions you’re having with customers?  Because it sounds like the visibility you see is more nebulous to the market.
Let me take this one.
I think it’s not a matter of geography.
It really is a matter of your customer base.
And we’ve said for years we only deal with what we call the fair way players in the U.S.
North America market.
These are the folks that are going to keep rigs up and their budgets up through thick and thin but also are those that are dealing with some of the lowest lease cost opportunities there.
So we pride ourselves on our ability to sort of pick and choose who we work for and we do that.
And so it really doesn’t matter where they’re working.
And I really wouldn’t get too concentrated and focused on geography.
It’s really what our customer base is.
And I think has Mark has said our customers that we’re working for are increasing their rig counts.
They’re increasing their budgets and we sort of know what their plans are for the remainder of this year.
And that’s what gives us the increasing confidence of our position in North America from a margin accretion standpoint notwithstanding the fact that there are a lot of other companies and customers out there that may not feel so confident.
We just happen to feel really strong and really confident about the customer base that we have.
And then the follow up is on international.
Your guidance sort of low teens for the year.
You’ve got a 21% year over year increase for the first quarter in terms of revenue growth which implies a pretty good slowdown with year over year growth relative to Q1 for the balance of the year.
Is that conservatism?  Or is that based upon conviction that the year over year rate of growth is actually going to slow that much?  It’s still commendable but slower than Q1.
It is truly slower than Q1 but I think that as we look year over year Q1 in 2012 was a bit more dramatically down.
And so we knew that Q1 probably would be a little bit higher percentage.
As we look ahead also we think that particularly in Latin America things are going to move a little bit slower possibly than some would forecast.
So maybe it has a little bit of conservatism in it but we think it’s a pretty fair forecast just based on historically what you see customers do from this point forward.
And remember last year we saw some pretty significant growth sequentially in our international markets coming off of Q1.
So it really is in comparison to last year.
Our next question comes from Kurt Hallead of RBC.
Your line is now open.
Dave a question for you.
There was a lot of chatter the last couple of days at least from one of your competitors getting very optimistic about the acceleration in the international marketplace as you get through the second half of the year.
And I think a lot of that is being driven by the prospects of the Saudis to pick up rigs.
I know you’re pretty close to the situation out there very close.
I wonder if you can put it into context for us compared to what transpired in Saudi in ‘06/’07 into ’08 how you would compare that to what you see happening now and then what kind of impact you would expect that to have on capacity and pricing and opportunities going out late ’13 and into ’14? Well I think sort of on a broad scale as I indicated before we are very excited about the potential in the eastern hemisphere markets at this point in time.
And we are very optimistic specifically about opportunities in Saudi Arabia.
If you look at the myriad of areas that Aramco was looking at increasing: gas drilling work over areas the whole area of lump sum turnkey projects.
And we’re embedded with Aramco in all of those.
So I think if you look at the opportunities in the Red Sea where we recently won some work with Saudi Aramco.
So we’re very excited about that market in particular and obviously we’ll get more than our share of that market as it comes around.
We’re in active negotiations with them right now about several projects.
Obviously we can’t talk about them until they’re awarded but we’re very optimistic about where we stand on them.
So I believe that Saudi is a bit of a microcosm of what we see the whole international market playing out as which is very positive over the next several years.
And maybe in that context is there a parallel we can draw to what transpired in ’06 ’07 and the acceleration in bus and margins and activity and pricing and everything else that drove the sector for a good two two and a half year period? I certainly hope so.
Our next question comes from Jim Wicklund of Credit Suisse.
Your line is now open.
Jeff you talk about service intensity.
And we all know that rig count is becoming increasingly passé as a metric.
And I understand the improvements in technology in your customer base that drive your business.
But have you all come up with a number?  Is service intensity growing by 5%?  10%? Is there a number that you all are kind of looking to put on that? We look at different metrics so numbers of stages and different things that we see out there.
And so when we look at it we see it improving.
I’m not going to give you necessarily a particular metric but we’re forecasting a 9-10% improvement in efficiency of rigs which gets to what drives the underlying numbers of stages numbers of activity.
And I know we talked a little bit about rig count and all but spending.
Do you think that North America spending will go up this year through the rest of the year?  There’s been a great deal of question as to whether the rig count is going to move.
And like I said rig count doesn’t matter.
And the number of sources we have for footage and wells are kind of sparse.
What do you think spending is going to do for the industry overall for North America for the rest of the year? I think the actual spending is probably going to be flat and I think that’s a function of spending the money faster which our clients will be able to do.
So I don’t see a big increase in actual spend necessarily across the board.
Our next question comes from Scott Gruber of Sanford Bernstein.
Your line is now open.
We’ve seen Halliburton definitely take the lead here in pushing for more 24-hour work and pumping in the states.
It’s obviously great for asset turns and margins.
But you can also complete more stages when you work around the clock.
Have you guys gone out and looked at the efficiency gain which is being realized by your pumping fleet or maybe the pumping fleet as a whole here in the U.S.
and how that will impact tightening of the market? You know our strategy has been to implement our Q10 pump capability.
We’ve [feathered] that end of the market sort of ratably as we’ve retired equipment.
But we believe we will see probably a 20% improvement in our efficiency on the back of our technology.
So when I think about capital efficiency and capital required to address our piece of the market I believe it will be more competitive than others certainly in that space.
Let me just add one more comment.
Obviously the impact of 24-hour operations adds to the efficiency of the industry but it also eats up your equipment two or three times faster than your traditional way of doing pressure pumping does.
So that in itself also will lend to the consumption of any excess capacity that’s in the market just because the useful life of your equipment tends to require you to have more maintenance and more ongoing cost.
But it does grind the equipment up faster and that tends to take some of the equipment out of the market a lot faster than it might historically have.
And that 20% figure that’s primarily related to less backup capacity?  Or is that a combination of less backup capacity and more stages executed per week per month? That’s actually in our view the same thing stages less horsepower.
The Q10 runs at higher rate of horsepower than traditional pumps and so if you just look through it you just need 20% less based on what we’re seeing it run in the marketplace.
It means fewer trucks.
If I could ask a quick question on Mexico.
You mentioned a little bit slower going here in terms of growth rate in Latin America.
What’s your outlook for gas-related activity in Mexico particularly in the Burgos.
You know Mexico is importing more low-cost gas here from the U.S.
I think it’s still a bit of a science experiment in northern Mexico right now.
As we’ve talked about over the last couple of calls we’ve done some fracs.
I think we did the first frac in northern Mexico.
And the results have not been made public on that.
So we won’t do that today.
But I think you can consider it as sort of a prospective science experiment at this point in time.
But we are optimistic about what might develop as we go forward.
Our next question comes from David Anderson of JPMorgan.
Your line is now open.
Everyone seems to be downplaying the potential improvement in natural gas activity.
You did on this call as well.
[unintelligible] price has been down about $4 for over a month and I’m just kind of wondering some of your [competitors] are starting to lock in hedges.
Why won’t we start to see activity increasing soon.
You talk about your customer base.
You stuck with those guys.
I’m just kind of curious what they’re saying.
What do they need to see to start getting out there again.
I think you’re right.
For $4 plus gas where they can lock hedges in is getting to the point where a lot of these fair way players actually can be quite profitable from a return standpoint on these.
I think what we want to convey today is that we’re not counting on that in the projection we’re doing of where we see the market going the balance of the year.
Obviously if gas prices do stay in the above-$4 level I think that only adds to the potential optimism that we have about 2013 and 2014.
That number could really change in the second half of the year if it stays here and if your customers start coming back.
We should see even more [upset] to your margins.
Yes that would be our feeling for sure.
We often hear your competitors complain about your pricing.
It also seems a bit like sour grapes considering you guys have a lower cost structure out there.
I was wondering if you could just give us a sense as to how much lower you think your costs are compared to your competitors?  And also how far along are you in the Battle Red initiative and some of these other cost initiatives? We’re not going to comment from a competitive standpoint on where we think we are relative to cost.
I think we’re making progress on the two initiatives you describe Frac of the Future and Battle Red.
We’ll plan to give you a better update on that next quarter.
But they do drive efficiency for us in the ability to obviously manage our bus.
As I said in my prepared comments I don’t plan to comment on the tit for tat back and forth around pricing just because it’s anecdotal.
Our commitment is to make a return on the equipment we put in the market and that’s my commitment.
And so that’s what we’re doing.
Our next question comes from Brad Handler of Jefferies.
Your line is now open.
I guess I’ll stay with North America too to start.
And this is a bit of a leading question.
If you are as committed as you are and you have a process where the Q10 pump is rolling out in principal you cannot retire the older pumps as aggressively and build into an opportunity to work with these good customers of yours that might be growing their bus.
Is there any change in philosophy I suppose about the retirement strategy of your existing equipment? No.
I mean the new technology is more efficient.
It also has better maintenance cycles.
So it’s the right thing to do.
And so what we plan to do is continue with what we had said in terms of capital discipline throughout the year.
And at this point in the year we’re well into the year.
I appreciate your spending wouldn’t change.
I just don’t know if the retirement intentions might have softened perhaps?  I guess just to clarify the question.
I think the way that I would characterize it from the earlier question if gas activity were to take off dramatically on us and we recognized that we weren’t putting enough it would be easier to dial up our manufacturing just a little bit to get more Q10s out.
We’ve been trying to be very disciplined in how the Q10s are coming out.
We’ve talked about reducing capex staying with it and generating some additional cash flow this year.
That’s an adjustment that we can make if we felt like the forecast could lend itself to basically turn out more units rather than keeping the old stuff out of the field and deferring those efficiency gains that we’re trying to capture.
If I could ask an unrelated one on Brazil so the contracts have been signed.
Help us a little bit with the ramp the incremental revenue ramp.
Does that take several quarters?  Should we see full run rates only in 2014?  Or does that happen relatively more quickly? I would say to look more to 2014 for the full ramp on that.
We will feather equipment in as we sort of go through the year.
But don’t expect full on really until the equipment’s in place and ready to go.
Our next question comes from Jim Crandell from Cowen Securities.
Your line is now open.
Given your somewhat optimistic view on gas drilling for 2014 and given the lead times involved are you close to the point or are you almost at the point where you might consider new equipment building in domestic pressure pumping? I think that’s one of the huge advantages we have by manufacturing our own pumping equipment is we don’t have the real extended lead times that our competitors might have with respect to when they order up and can dial up their spend there.
So I think we really have the luxury of waiting until probably the second and third quarter of this year to take a look at the market before we have to make a decision as to whether or not we want to ramp up production that could come on stream in 2014.
And I think that’s part of the reason that we have the higher returns is that we have more granularity around our ability to control manufacturing.
For follow up my question is on the formation evaluation both LWD and wireline bus worldwide.
If you just exclude Brazil for a second I know that increasing penetration in this market has been key to your overall goal of improving margins internationally.
Can you comment and maybe even include the deep water Gulf of Mexico?  Do you feel in both LWD and wireline you’ve gained share of the market in the past year? Yeah I think in the last year we have gained some share.
And I think it’s demonstrated by some of the markets where we’re working today.
So with our sort of full [FE] suite of services we’re working in east Africa today and some of the more challenging environments there.
We’re seeing as I mentioned progress in Angola.
We’ve won some important contracts [unintelligible] to work in Asia.
So yes we’re making the progress that I would expect and partly just demonstrating our capability to deliver in these deep water markets.
I think we have time for one more question.
Our final question comes from Doug Becker of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is now open.
Dave I was hoping to get your last thoughts on Halliburton’s exposure to the artificial lift market.
You have a clear focus on mature fields.
And particularly just in light of GE’s announced acquisition of Lufkin.
If you look at our portfolio artificial lift is one that clearly was a hole in the portfolio that we have.
We made the acquisition a year ago of Global and now have an offering in artificial lift.
It actually I think as we said in either the Q3 or Q4 call last year has exceeded beyond our wildest imagination in terms of financial performance.
And it sort of gives us a window into what the opportunities in that market will be.
So we’re glad to be in the business albeit in a small way right now but I think that what we’ve demonstrated over the years is that when we get focused on a market and put the capital to it that we basically are going to be a player.
Now [unintelligible] is going to be basically in [ESP].
At this point in time rod lift and things like that we don’t view as critical to our ability to compete long run in the mature field area.
But I think that having the ESP offering is something that rounds out what we have and was an important acquisition for us to build on.
And Mark what’s the potential for significantly accelerating the share repurchase program particularly if a significant portion of the Macondo settlement is paid in stock?  Does that alter the thinking? Certainly a settlement on Macondo gives us more certainty as to what we could do with our cash going forward.
I think everyone recognizes we’ve had a cash placeholder on the balance sheet as it were to hold in anticipation of what the ultimately exposure on Macondo might be.
I think having an earlier resolution of it if we are successful in settlement discussions would give us some certainty then as to what we could do.
We typically need $750 to $800 million of cash to run the business.
And beyond that everything else creates an opportunity.
And so I think you hit it right.
If something were to happen that would create a lot of opportunity for us to do some interesting things.
Thank you.
And at this time I’d like to turn the call back to management for any closing remarks.
No operator you can go ahead and close out the call.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today’s conference.
This does conclude today’s program.
You can now disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
And welcome to the Halliburton Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
(Operator instructions) As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I’d now like to introduce your host for today's conference Kelly Youngblood.
Sir you may begin.
Good morning and welcome to the Halliburton second quarter 2013 conference call.
Today's call is being webcast and a replay will be available on Halliburton's website for seven days.
The press release announcing the first quarter results is also available on the Halliburton website.
Joining me today are Dave Lesar CEO; Jeff Miller COO; and Mark McCollum CFO.
Tim Probert president of strategy and corporate development will also be available today for follow-up calls.
I would like to remind our audience that some of today's comments may include forward-looking statements reflecting Halliburton's views about future events and their potential impact on performance.
These matters involve risks and uncertainties that could impact operations and financial results and cause our actual results to materially differ from our forward-looking statements.
These risks are discussed in Halliburton's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2012 Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31 2013 and recent current reports on Form 8-K.
We will welcome questions after we complete our prepared remarks.
We ask that you please limit yourself to one question and one related follow-up to allow more time for others who have questions.
Now I'll turn the call over to Dave.
Thank you Kelly and good morning to everyone.
Overall I am pleased with our second quarter results.
Total company revenue of $7.3 billion was a record quarter for Halliburton and operating income was over $1 billion.
We achieved record revenues this quarter in our Baroid Cementing Completion Tools Multi-Chem and Testing product lines.
From an operating income perspective Baroid Testing and Artificial also set new records.
Turning to the geographies our international operations grew 8% sequentially which is at the top of our peer group.
This growth came from record revenues in both of our eastern hemisphere regions.
Compared to our two primary competitors we have delivered leading year over year international revenue growth over the last five quarters.
Also notable for the quarter our international revenue comprised almost half of our total company revenue which clearly demonstrates the success on our ongoing strategy to grow our international business and balance our geographic mix.
So clearly we are not just North America pressure pumping company.
Our Eastern Hemisphere played out as we expected.
Revenue was up 11% sequentially and operating income was up 23%.
I want to specifically highlight our Middle East/Asia region which had an outstanding revenue growth of 20% and operating income growth of 43% relative to the second quarter of last year.
This is a very exciting market for Halliburton today and we expect our Middle Asia region to be the highest growth want that we have led by Saudi Arabia Iraq and all of Asia.
For the year we still fully expect Eastern Hemisphere margins to average in the upper teens with year-over-year revenue growth in the mid-teens.
With pricing improvement opportunities in the Eastern Hemisphere continuing to be somewhat illusive our current operating bias is toward improving our utilization and efficiency as we address the increase spend from our customers.
Jeff will discuss the weaker than expected Latin America performance and the Mexico integrated project market in greater detail.
But I want to be clear on one thing we feel confident that revenue and margins of Latin America will improve in the second half of the year.
We expect margins to improve in the third quarter and approach the mid-teens level and expect full year margins to be approximately the same.
In summary our international outlook has not changed.
We expect consistently solid year-over-year growth in several key markets.
Although there is still uncertainty around Egypt Libya and North Mexico activity in the near-term our deepwater share gains coupled with increase rig count in Saudi Arabia and an anticipated rebound in Latin America during the second half provide us confidence that we will continue to outperform on the relative basis to our peers.
North America also delivered results as we expected and I’m pleased with the quarter.
Revenue was up 3% despite a sluggish U.S.
land rig count and 71% lower Canadian rig count.
We also saw 120 basis points sequential improvement in our margins to 17.5%.
We are now expecting the rig count to remain relatively flat for the remainder of the year as we absorb a meaningful switch to multi-well pad activity among our customer base.
We believe this incremental drilling efficiency gains will provide for higher service intensity.
We currently estimate that pad drilling represents as much as 50% of the activity across key U.S.
basins and we’ll continue to pick higher.
As an example we’ve seen the Eagle Ford growth of less than 40% pad activity last year to over 60% today.
Ultimately we believe this efficiency trend bodes very well for us in the long run as our scale and expertise allows us to lead the industry in executing factory-type operations.
And despite issues around capacity utilization and pricing for the balance of the year we do expect North American margins to continue to improve.
We believe we have reasonable visibility around North America activities for the third quarter.
At this time it’s too early to tell the full extent of customer plan revisions and their impact on activity in the fourth quarter.
However we believe that current commodity prices make budget reloading of more compelling option for our customers which could help mitigate the risk to our fourth quarter slowdown.
I’m optimistic about Halliburton’s relative performance for the remainder of the year and our ability to grow our North America margins and continue to realize revenue and margin expansion in our international business.
Our strategy is intact and working well and we intend to stay the course.
We will continue to drive toward expanding our global portfolio in deepwater mature fields and unconventionals.
We have been and will continue to be focused on delivering best-in-class returns.
We bought back billion dollars of shares in the second quarter and today announced an additional repurchase of our authorization to total of $5 billion.
These actions reflect our growing confidence in the strength of our business outlook and our ability to not only increase our buybacks but our dividends while leaving room for any capital spending or additional acquisitions we may want to do.
Now let met turn the call over to Jeff and he’ll provide some additional operating detail.
Thanks Dave and good morning everyone.
Let me begin with an overview of our second quarter results.
The Eastern Hemisphere had solid sequential improvement compared to the first quarter of 2013 with revenue growth of 11% and operating income growth of 23%.
The improvement was led by seasonal recoveries in Norway and Russia along with the improved activity levels in Angola and across all of Asia.
In the Middle East Asia region compared to the first quarter revenue and operating income increased 12% and 17% respectively.
The growth was driven by higher stimulation wireline and fluids activity in Malaysia increased drilling and stimulation activity in China and improved profitability in Iraq.
The Middle East Asia is a high growth region for us and Malaysia is a great example where revenue grew 40% year-over-year and profit more than doubled driven by our strategic offshore wins.
We continued to build on this success in the second quarter displacing a major competitor to provide offshore cementing services and in addition winning a series of fluids contracts in Malaysia with an aggregate estimated value in excess of $500 million over the next four years.
Additionally continuing our growth in Saudi Arabia in the second quarter we were rewarded a three year lump sum turnkey project to provide reentry services in an existing field.
This strategic win comes in addition to the recently expanded reward for our multi-rig turnkey project in the kingdom.
Turning to Europe Africa and CIS relative to the first quarter revenue and operating income increased 9% and 33% respectively.
The improvement was driven by higher fluids and cementing activity in Russia increased stimulation fluids and completion tools activity in Norway and higher drilling and completions activity in Angola.
A highlight of note in the region during the second quarter our Baroid product line partnered with Cobalt International Energy to transfer our supersaturated (inaudible) viscosity fluid technology from the Gulf of Mexico to Deep Water Angola.
This as well as the D&amp;E were (inaudible) deepwater drilling and we believe this technology will be instrumental to the future success of Angola’s new subsalt drilling project.
Within Europe Africa and CIS region we also have been successful in executing several strategically integrated projects.
Let me give you a few examples now.
In Russia we saw early success with our Em-Yoga integrated tight oil project.
The project began earlier this year and by applying unconventional multistage completion techniques to [this mature field] production has already materially exceeded targets leading to substantially increased activities in those fields.
In Norway we recently completed first phase of an integrated multi-well project.
Based on our success in delivering services and accelerating the production cycle our contract has been renewed to 2015 and was expanded to include two additional fields.
And finally in the Danish sector of the North Sea we were recently awarded a five year multi product line contract with an estimated value of over $100 million to provide services on a high pressure high temperature development.
This reward was based on our proven track record of delivering integrated services in the Scandinavian market and a recognized expertise with HPHT services.
All three of these projects are good examples of how we collaborate internally and with our customers to drive value into a project both with the operator and for Halliburton.
Overall our Eastern Hemisphere performance has been impressive.
If we look back to this year last -- this time last year; we’ve grown revenue by 16% and operating income by 22%.
In Latin America we had a disappointing start to the year.
Revenues were flat compared to the first quarter and operating income was down 7% as a result of reduced drilling activity in North Mexico increased mobilization costs in both Brazil and Mexico and lower vessel activity offshore Mexico.
Moving into the second half of the year we’re confident that we will see an uptick in Latin American financial results.
Let me touch on the few of the key drivers now.
In Columbia we see second half levels improving as our customers resolve some of the recent permitting delays.
In Brazil during the third quarter we will complete mobilization of our directional drilling contract and expect the transition to our new market share in the fourth quarter.
And finally in Mexico we expect to see the largest improvement.
In the third quarter we’re confident we will secure contract approvals related to our consulting and software services and see increased utilization of our stimulation vessels.
We also expect to have finished mobilization of equipment for our recent offshore intervention services contract.
We anticipate the North Mexico activity will continue to be an issue for the region in 2013.
However I'm pleased to announce that we were recently awarded the Humapa block by Pemex in the [lease round] and incentivized projects.
Scheduled to begin in early 2014 this estimated $1.2 million project is for multiyear asset management contract in Chicontepec Basin.
This most recent round of incentivized contract differs from the previous round and then it provides 100% cost recovery for our services during the first phase of the project.
We expect returns for this project to be generated from our own service revenues and to be accretive to our overall business.
We were very selective in targeting the Humapa block.
In fact it was the only one we’re dealing with.
Because we believe that this project would generate robust returns at a lowest level of risk and better experience in the nearby Remolino Laboratory gives us a technical advantage in delivering timely productive wells.
We’re also currently evaluating a pipeline of large integrated projects in Mexico valued at an estimated $8 billion.
We expect this work will be awarded towards the end of the year.
With the combination of these integrated projects and the Humapa project we’re excited about 2014 and beyond for Mexico.
Let me give you a few other Latin American highlights for the quarter.
In Brazil we inaugurated our Technology Center in Rio de Janeiro for Halliburton personnel to collaborate with operators and the country's leading university and a global center of expertise for both deepwater and mature fields.
Further in the ultra-deepwater pre-salt market at Brazil Halliburton successfully performed the deepest wireline fluid sampling and Rotary Sidewall Coring job ever undertaken.
Samples were retrieved from depths of over 22 000 feet helping our customer identify the most productive zones of this exploration well.
We also see opportunity in the offshore Mexico market.
We recently displaced the major competitor to provide open-hole logging services on a deepwater well.
Based on a reservoir characterization portfolio including our geo mineralogical tool and our RDT formation tester with fluid indemnification.
Now moving to North America revenue was sequentially up 3% and operating income was up 10% driven by increased U.S land activity partially offset by reduced seasonal activity in Canada.
Consistent with the first quarter approximately 85% of our crews on the long-term contracts and about three quarters of working 24 hour operations.
In spite of relatively flat sequentially U.S.
rig count drilling efficiencies in the trend towards multiwell pads are driving more robust well count.
Additionally in some cases we’re seeing operators increasing the number of stages on horizontal wells performing as many as 40 stages per lateral in the Marcellus in certain [zones].
It’s our view that the result in increased well count and stage count could absorb the remaining 4 percentage of the excess horsepower and help drive service intensity across all product line.
Although we believe excess pressure pumping capacity has diminished since the first quarter due to rising demand there is still an over supply in the market.
As a result we anticipate the pricing pressure will persist to some degree across many North American basins in 2013.
Additionally as we gauge the utilization of our equipment on a 24x7 basis we see a significant opportunity to improve and drive the light space by that I mean the downtime out of the schedule.
In this environment we believe it’s more important than ever to be aligned with most efficient customers where we can create the most value for our customers and deliver the best returns for Halliburton.
We’re continuing to execute our strategy around surface efficiencies subsurface technology and testing chemistry delivering differentiated services that generate superior returns over the long term.
As part of this larger strategy Frac of the Future and Battle Red are really the platforms that enable surface sufficiency.
We expect to see increased performance at the well head as we incorporate these tools into our processes.
Battle Red effectively applies new processes and technologies to standardize and automate integrated workflows across our product line driving improved efficiency across our North American Service Delivery Organization.
Although there are some associated cost savings this initiative is primarily directed in improving working capital and cash flow.
We’re targeting a 50% reduction in days to bill our customers and we expect these tools to also be able to help manage inventory level reduce overtime and optimize low freight deliveries.
As an example we’ve already seen a 15% to 20% reduction in costs around trade and standby charges.
We anticipate Battle Red roll out will be completed in the first quarter of 2014.
Next is our Frac of the Future program which is designed to reduce capital and operational costs at the well side.
All these data indicates Q10 are running two to three times longer than existing power burden cost and five to six times longer than the industry standard before requiring maintenance which we anticipate will reduce our fleet maintenance experience 5% to 30%.
This efficiency also allows us to reduce the equipments needed on location by an average of 25% decreasing the capital required to deliver Frac fleet and reducing labor and fuel costs.
Specific labor to process automation and reduce vehicle counts on the job site.
Over the last few years we’ve indeed reduced our crew charges by close to 30% and believe our crews on location are currently streamlined.
When we look at what we’re able to deliver on a stage per head count basis we’ve seen a 40% rise in executional efficiency over the same time period.
By the end of this year we anticipate that close to 20% of our fleet will be converted to Frac of the Future.
The rate at which we deploy going forward will be dependent on three factors; North American natural gas activity the growth of international oil conventional and our requirements would replace older equipment.
We believe our manufacturing capability has a strategic advantage allowing us to manage deployment and quickly take advantage of changing market conditions.
Assuming a consistent build schedule of new equipment we expect to reach the 50% mark on Frac of the Future deployment around 2015.
We believe these strategic initiatives will deliver material differentiation and provide a sustainable competitive advantage to Halliburton for the years to come.
Turning to the Gulf of Mexico revenue was impacted by BOP certification related issues that has delayed several of our large completions to the back part of the year.
For the remainder of the year we expect revenue and profit will average higher than the first half as deepwater arrive and more rigs move to development and completions.
We’re optimistic about the Gulf of Mexico deepwater market and are excited about our competitive position in the lower treasury market that we expect maybe double in 2014.
We continuously work for ways to better manage our cost structure in the organization.
As we migrate towards more efficient differentiated service platforms such as Battle Red and Frac of the Future it will have an impact on support and operational headcount as well as equipment and inventory requirements.
We expect to complete an evaluation of these areas and you take action on them in the third quarter which will result in severance and other charges during the quarter.
We’ll be identifying these separately in our third quarter results.
So to summarize North America we’re forecasting rig count to remain stable for the year but believe that activity levels can improve as a result of drilling efficiencies and further adopting of flat well drilling.
In a flat pricing and rig count environment cost management is going to be more can and be extremely important so we anticipate better cost optimization will result from our strategic initiatives.
We’re maintaining close contact with our customers to better understand their budget plans for the reminder of the year.
We want to be clear that we expect North American margins to increase the balance of the year.
And finally we’re committed to growing our international revenues and margins and achieving a better geographic balance in our business going forward.
I think our performance this quarter speaks for the progress we’re making on that front.
And now Mark will provide some additional financial commentary.
Mark? Thanks Jeff and good morning everyone.
Our corporate and other expense came in at $108 this quarter slightly lower than expected due to some insurance reimbursements for legal costs associated with Macondo litigation as well as decrease in costs related to our corporate initiatives.
Approximately $34 million of our corporate costs were for continued investments in Battle Red and other strategic initiatives.
The cost of these initiatives will be declining over the next few quarters.
We anticipate the impact of these investments will be approximately $0.02 to $0.03 per share after tax in the third quarter.
In total we anticipate that corporate expenses will average between a $110 million and $120 million per quarter for the remainder of the year.
We continue to benefit from the strategic realignment of our international operations completed last year and the continued expansion of our international business.
Our effective tax rate this quarter came in at 29% in line with the low end of previous expectations.
We anticipate though that we might see a slight increase to about 29.5% for the third quarter.
Our capital expenditure guidance of approximately $3 billion for the full year remains unchanged.
Throughout this quarter we have continued to pursue in our (inaudible) settlement to resolve a substantial portion of the private claims pending in the Macondo multi-district litigation.
However discussions among the parties to the proposed settlement have recently slowed while BP challenges certain provisions of their previous settlement with the plaintiffs' Steering Committee including a current appeal in the Fifth Circuit Court.
We continue to believe that a reasonably valued settlement is in the best interest of our shareholders.
But given the complexity of the current situation among other parties it is difficult to estimate when or if a resolution through settlement can be reached.
In the meantime we’ll continue to argue our defense against any liability in the course.
No adjustments to the Macondo Reserve was recorded during the second quarter as the MDL trial and other investigations progressed we’re constantly monitoring and evaluating developments.
And it’s possible that we may need to adjust our reserve estimate up or down in the future.
At this time our reserve estimate does not include potential recoveries from our insurers.
However we did a reach favorable agreement with a portion of our insurers during the quarter which among other things allows us to continue to be reimbursed for our legal cost.
As we communicated in our first quarter call we intended to be more aggressive in our second quarter common stock repurchase activity.
During the second quarter we upsized our revolving credit facility from $2 billion to $3 billion and used the excess liquidity that transaction created to repurchase $23 million shares of common stock.
Last week our Board of Directors approved increase in the authorization for future share repurchases to $5 billion.
We are currently evaluating the best available repurchase methods.
This increased authorization together with the 39% increase in dividends announced in the first quarter is a reflection of our growing confidence in the Street from our business outlook and our continuing commitment to shareholder distributions.
Going forward we believe that company will generate sufficient cash flows to enable us to grow our business increase shareholder returns and maintain flexibility to take advantage of any strategic opportunities we see.
Now moving on to our near-term outlook.
For our international business we expect stronger revenues and margins during the second half of the year but weighted more heavily to the fourth quarter.
For the eastern hemisphere we’re currently expecting third quarter year-over-year revenue growth to be similar to the second quarter with a modest sequential improvement in margins.
Latin American growth is expected to be muted by the activity curtailment in Mexico but we should see a moderate sequential improvement of revenue with margins approaching the mid teens.
And for North America we anticipate a flat U.S.
rig count for the third quarter.
However we expect to see the seasonal rebound from breakup in Canada along with stronger activity levels in the Gulf of Mexico.
And we anticipate the net result will be modestly higher sequential revenues and margins.
Now I’ll turn the call back over to Dave for some closing comments.
Dave? Okay.
I know a lot of people were dialing in late so let me give you a quick summary of what we said today.
The North America based on improving activity levels in Canada and the Gulf and continued efficiency gains for U.S.
land we expect margins to continue to improve for the balance of the year.
As Mark said in Latin America we feel confident that revenue and margins can improve in the second half with margins approaching the mid-teens in the third quarter.
For the Eastern Hemisphere our outlook remains unchanged.
For the full year we expect revenue growth in the mid-teens with margins in the upper teens.
And our aggressive buybacks in the second quarter and the increase to our repurchase authorization clearly demonstrate our growing confidence we have in the strength of our entire business outlook.
And finally we have been and will continue to be relentlessly focused on delivering best-in-class returns.
So with that let’s open it up for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Bill Herbert of Simmons &amp; Company.
Your line is now open.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Dave I’m curious and this sort of weaves into Jeff’s narrative with regard to the Frac of the Future and of that Battle Red but the C&amp;P margins in this quarter was actually a pleasant surprise for me.
And I’m just curious in a relatively labored D&amp;E capital spending environment sure with well counts and stage counts increasing but overall absolutely relatively flat range of our commodity prices as it were and free cash flow generation is still relatively challenged.
How high can C&amp;P margins in North America actually go? I think Bill we have always said that we see no reason that in a reasonably robust gas market that we should not be able to achieve normalized margins.
And for us normalized margins would be in the mid-20s.
And so obviously we’re going to need help in gas from the gas market.
But with the liquids market I think underpinning sort of how low margins can go and you add to that the efficiencies that we see going on with respect to what we’re going to get out of Battle Red and Frac of the Future.
I can see a path there.
And as I said we’re going to have to get a little help from gas.
And obviously as we go forward into the balance of the year so we’ll get some help from Canada.
Okay.
And with regard to your prophecy for I believe full-year margins for Eastern Hemisphere in the high teens the only part of that equation which looks still somewhat ambitious to me relative to first half margins is Europe Africa and CIS which given what we did in the first half and plus a relatively vigorous rate of improvement in the second half of the year and what exactly is the road map for margin improvement in Europe Africa and CIS as the balance of the year unfolds? Bill I’ll let Jeff handle that one.
Okay thank you.
we saw improving activity kind of through Scandinavia.
We talked about project wins there so that’s certainly to the positive.
We also see kind of the Sub-Saharan activity picking up around the free salt.
We see a path to improving margins in the back half.
But certainly the North Sea improving is a positive and then also our activity in Russia should improve as well.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jim Wicklund of Credit Suisse.
Your line is now open.
Good morning guys.
The $32 million mark in the quarter was the improvement in supply chain and all the continued improvements in Battle Red.
I think Battle Red was supposed to go loud this quarter and you’re talking about being implemented in Q1.
You guys have spent a lot of money doing this and so we assume that’s an investment.
And so how long do you think it will take to recruit the investments you made and when does that quarterly investment start to approach zero? Well the Battle Red project there are various elements of it that are rolling out each quarter as we go.
So we talked about that.
We expect the whole project to be completed by the first quarter of 2014.
But there are some fairly critical elements that have already rolled out like timekeeping and things of that nature there are elements that will begin to rollout even this quarter this next quarter and third quarter that will have an impact.
We’ve attracted we look at the cost very carefully most of -- as just most of battle that is really around working capital and cash.
But there is some fairly large savings in terms of headcount as well.
We’re going to give more data for all of you when we have our Analyst Day in November along all these projects since just more specific information about the savings that we see.
We are just suffice to say we are pretty excited about what we see right now believe very much in these projects and what way we’ll deliver and I think you will be pleasantly surprised when we give that data as well.
I love being pleasantly surprise it’s is one of my favorite things.
Very good.
The follow-up question in the U.S.
the concern still exist that we all know that rig count isn’t a very good denominator anymore and even that said we don’t have a lot of confidence in wells and footage because it’s not reported very well.
How much is rig efficiency running? How much is service intensity running with a flat rig count in the second half of the year? How much can you really grow revenues? Is that a 5% number? Is that a 10% number? Yeah.
I think we’re still kind of at a leading edge Jim with respect to the amount we’ve had drilling in fact anecdotally when we talk to operators they would describe what’s been done until now as drilling holed and arguably better exploration even some really big operators have said that they were waiting to really go for a long development.
So we’ve seen upper single-digit type improvement in terms of efficiency even in the current year that’s on the back of double-digit efficiency gain last year.
So yeah I expect there is still headroom to grow around that scenario.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Angie Sedita of UBS.
Your line is now open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning Angie.
Really very good to see the continuation of the above peer group growth rates international revenues and operating income.
What drove you essentially modestly increasing your Eastern Hemisphere margin guidance from essentially the mid-teens but now the high-teens where specific regions or countries that appeared to be a bit better than you originally expected? Yeah.
Thanks Angie.
A lot of that still on the back of what we’ve seen in Asia I mean we really come on strong in Asia.
We’ve seen the kind of growth throughout the region and have no reason to believe that fairly database.
Key contract I mean last year we’re seeing those get started and grow into their -- grow into the types of margins we were expecting out of those and then we follow those up with few more rents.
So predominantly coming from Asia fair? Yeah.
Fair enough.
Yeah.
Certainly we’re leading in Asia.
Okay.
And then as a follow up revenue-related follow up on U.S.
pressure pumping.
I believe you’re essentially the only company that’s there 100% utilization.
In prior conversations you indicated that you believe is that the rest of the market could become balanced by early 2014 and absorb this 20% overhang.
Do you still believe that timeline or is that beginning to be a bit pushed out? I think that timeline is beginning to push out just a little bit that’s on the back of what we’ve seen in terms of the overhang that’s still there though the thesis we stay with in terms of sort of the longer things go cannibalization starts to occur of equipment in the market.
So I still believe there is the ability to consume the overhang readably overtime but don’t see that as necessarily a Q1 ’14 event.
I think when we initially made that forecast our expectations about rig count growth for the year Angie were a bit higher and as you get as you heard we’re moderating that a bit and sort of assuming that we’re going over flat rig count.
Efficiency levels run higher rig count lower I think the combination of both sort of says it probably have a little bit more of a little longer overhang in this pressure pumping market.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Waqar Syed of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is now open.
Thank you.
Your margins and revenues in the D&amp;E side for North America were actually lower.
Is that all primarily Canada or is there some pricing (inaudible) lot and then what’s the outlook for the remainder of the year in D&amp;E? Lot of that is Canada that’s a good D&amp;E market for us and obviously with the rig count and breakup slowdown we feel that more or so have we seen some pricing pressure there.
There has been some pricing pressure in those other service lines.
But again the efficiency of the drilling activity [taken that out].
It’s the again primarily Canada.
So margin should go back to the 18% kind of level in the second quarter in North America D&amp;E? May be a little bit softer than that but that’s directionally the right way.
Now in the Bakken there was some disruption in activity in the second quarter and completion activity was delayed because of the rains.
Did you experience that or -- because that’s a pretty large market for you guys or not? Yes we did.
I mean we had a bit of an impact from that.
The weather never helps us through the spring in that market and even in Canada there was the follow-up to breakup with the flooding that happened in Calgary.
So it was [better this spring] throughout that area.
We certainly don’t expect that to repeat in the second half.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from James West of Barclays.
Jeff last quarter you had alluded to in North American stimulation that you guys were going to seek some pricing increases as we negotiate long-term contracts.
Now it seems like you're kind of pushing out when the industry here comes back into the balance.
But curious if that still is your intention and as we get into your rollover season here what the feedback has been from your customer base? So let me clarify in terms of the discussions we're having with clients better wells are still very important.
And so that plays to our strength in terms of designing custom chemistry for the best production the sub-surface insight that allows us to design the best producing wells.
So those continue.
But as we said we continue to see some pricing pressure certainly variable across different basins.
So I guess the pricing pressure doesn't go away as long as there is the overhang out there of excess equipment.
But I think our technical ability to sell into those contracts is still very good.
And then maybe just a follow up on international pricing from me.
Dave you mentioned in your comments that it was still -- the gains were still elusive but it seems like there’s the bad behaviors out in the market now but your competitors are at least getting somewhat more constructive and I am curious on why you think given the delayed approach that you're seeing and that your companies are seeing that why that pricing pressure -- pricing power is still elusive? Well I think James a couple of reasons.
One is that the price in some of these tenders in the international markets is still so large in terms of revenue stream and duration that everyone tends to sharpen their pencil when they tender and price these things.
And number two the ones that were tendered and launched several years ago all had upsell and new technology strategies in them all of which take a while to work their way through.
So as I've said at this point in time I think our focus is on increasing margins through better utilization more efficiency we've not seen a pricing inflection point even with increased spending because customers are really pretty much taking us slow and steady in terms of their increase and typically slow and steady doesn’t lend itself to a major pricing inflection point because all of a sudden a lot of capacity is stripped out in the market.
So as I said the international market is playing out almost exactly as we saw it and we believe we’ve got a pretty good handle on what's going to happen over the next couple of quarters.
Our next question comes from Kurt Hallead of RBC Capital Markets.
Thank you.
Your line is now open.
Thank you and good morning.
Just wanted to clarify get some clarification on one thing I think Dave you mentioned that there is going to be the Eastern Hemisphere going to be driven by Saudi and Asia? And then I think there was a question earlier about the margin improvement and I thought I heard that was being driven mainly by Norway since now in Africa.
I guess my question is can you give us some update on what you are expecting in terms of potential market improvement contribution from the Middle East to that Eastern Hemisphere dynamic is that primarily coming out of improving profitability out of Iraq or is it coming from improved activity in Saudi? I think Kurt Jeff was responding to a question specifically on why the our Europe Africa Russia operation was improving its margins and I think discussion on Norway Continental Europe North Sea was reflective of that.
If you sort of pull all the way back in terms of the Eastern Hemisphere even though we are proud of our operation in Europe Africa CIS the action really is in the Middle East and Asia right now.
And so our Middle East operations will continue to expand.
We are really happy with what we have going in Saudi our operations in Iraq have stabilized.
And then as Jeff has mentioned almost all the way across Asia we are seeing great success.
So we are really happy with our Eastern Hemisphere portfolio right now.
We haven’t mentioned some of the African countries but they continue to do better.
So overall I think that across the Board we are happy with where we are in Eastern Hemisphere just a summer driving forward a little bit faster.
Okay.
And then thanks Dave let me follow up to that with respect to Iraq you have a general timeframe as the when you think Iraq may become neutral or net neutral to your Middle East/Asia margins? It’s neutral now.
In fact it was breakeven last quarter slightly profitable it’s more profitable this quarter.
We are little positive on the outlook for Iraq take it will be little slower and more measured as we go forward but certainly more profitable.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Brad Handler of Jefferies.
Your line is now open.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Hi.
Brad.
Could you guys just speak a little bit more specifically to what’s happening in Egypt? Yeah.
From your business perspective.
Yeah.
The -- obviously it’s not going and hitting on all cylinders at this point in time.
The customers have dialed back a little bit.
One of the big issues we have is because of the concerns the government have the ability to move around in the desert has been somewhat hampered especially the ability to move explosives around and obviously explosives are key to our business in terms of completing the wells.
And so that’s just made the logistics of doing our operations there a little bit more difficult.
But it hasn’t been shutdown but it clearly has been ratcheted back and obviously when you ratchet back and the revenue and add a logistical cost it really starts to impact your margins more than it impacts your revenue.
Right.
But you sorry so you guys you have kept all the crew and whatever expect crew is in country and… Yeah.
We have actually very very few expects in place like Egypt.
But we have maintained our crew that’s correct.
Got you.
Okay.
I don’t really to follow up Mark what was the shares outstanding at the end of 2Q? That’s a great question.
We had 917 million shares outstanding at the end of the quarter.
The part -- when you try to do the averaging to the quarter right most of the billion dollar share buyback happened in May and June and so the averaging effect had a little bit different effect.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Doug Becker of Bank of America.
Your line is now open.
Thanks.
Jeff I think you indicated 50% of the frac we will have the [Q2] promise by the end of 2015 which I think implies about 50% conversation of the fleet over 3.5 years give or take? Also just trying to gauge if it’s reasonable to assume that the full fleet will be converted in a total six to seven years kind of a similar environment to what we’ve seen over the last couple of year.
And if everything fell into place how quickly could you have Q10 pumps in the entire fleet? Yeah Doug that’s the right pace.
We expect to be by ‘15 at about half.
But what I would say is castings that we’re doing this sort of ratably as the market allows and as equipment as they’re taken outside the U.S.
equipment retirements occur.
But we have continued to retire equipment in order to get the equipment into the field.
So that’s the right pace kind of in the five to six year pace but that would to a certain degree be limited by market.
And we wouldn’t get over our skies if the market didn’t allow it.
How quickly could you -- if 550 gas international commissions are ramping up how quickly could you in the perfect scenario…? Very quickly.
I mean that’s my reference to our manufacturing capability allows us really to turn more quickly than probably anyone in the marketplace around bringing equipment forward.
So we would love to have the opportunity to do that.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Dave Anderson of JP Morgan.
Your line is now open.
Hey Dave in your prepared remarks you mentioned something about 50% of drilling in the U.S.
is on pad drilling.
I was a little surprised by the number.
It seems a little higher than I was thinking.
Was that a number for Halliburton and if so can you just tell me where do you think that number goes say by the end of 2014? that’s our view of where the market is today not just for Halliburton.
And I think that as we try to allude over the last couple of quarters I think the people that are analyzing our industry have got to move away from rig count.
They’ve got to move away from well count and really look at sort of horizontal footage drilled and given the position that we have in the U.S.
and given what we see out there we think that basically the pad drilling is 50% or so.
The other thing that you see is pad sizes are getting much larger and that just drives more efficiency and more service intensity.
And I was just wondering if you can help me quantify this impact.
Let's just say you take five wells on pad drilling which is five wells kind of standalone.
How would you think that your margins should be different between those two wells or is it going to reduce cost or whatever the best way to measure that impact is? The margins are better on the back -- the number of turns we get on the equipment.
So if we’re rigged up on a single location we have even particular equipment that allows us to move from well to well without having to move the equipment at all.
So if we think in terms of start to finish or time between wells we are just working more on a pad and the larger the pad the more we work as opposed to rigging down and moving away to somewhere else.
So is that like a 20% to 30% increase in margins something on those lines? Well I think obviously we know what that amount is but we’re not going to tell the world.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jeff Tillery of Tudor Pickering Holt.
Your line is now open.
Hi good morning.
Hi Jeff.
The discussion around Q3 North American outlook top line growth being driven Canada and Gulf of Mexico coming back but you had implied that the U.S.
land business kind of trajectory into the course of Q2 is pretty flattish.
Is that correct? And I guess one of my questions.
again offset by those other items.
So I wouldn’t infer that.
I guess so was that improvement April through June that was better than the March [through May]? I guess it was around… Yes on a state count basis we’re seeing an improvement.
So we’re back kind of consistent with what we saw middle of late last -- middle of sort of third quarter of last year.
So I mean we are seeing the activity rebound.
Then another question I had is just around Latin America.
So in this we see the revenue improvement in the second half of the year if that was to kind of bounds around what's reasonable is it fair to think kind of low side case of revenue growth of 5%...
I think they are 5%.
… in case of 10% full year in Latin America year-over-year? I think they are 5% numbers per year.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Scott Gruber of Bernstein.
Your line is now open.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Given the more temporary outlook here for rebalancing of the pumping market I assume you are not considering extending the size of your U.S.
pumping fleet during the first half of '14? I assume that's correct because you didn't increase your CapEx for the second half of the year? That would be correct.
Our expectation is to kind of stay where we are.
Okay.
So how do you think over the medium term about that choice between continuing to improve margins which is clearly the goal today and the opportunity to take share in the U.S.
market personally I think that the U.S.
market should be a good market over the medium term as the industry moves to monetize cheap natural gas.
Are you thinking about a certain margin level that you want to get to before you start adding capacity in your -- above your cost of capital today? Are we getting back to this normalized margin or we should think about before you start increasing your CapEx? Well we’ll start with returns first.
So everything which is in this business is around returns and so as long as we are happy with our returns and we are getting equipments to work we wouldn't take share at the expense of returns.
I really don't know that I mean with -- on the back of the things that we are dealing with Battle Red and Frac of the Future I don't see those few things as mutually explosive.
Some of the systemic things we are doing allow us to grow share even with the equipment we have or with the same level of equipment that we have.
Yeah.
I think there are two things to consider Scott one is that with pad drilling in the efficiencies that our equipment is working today.
As we look at it you are creating effective utilizable space on a calendar as we work faster and more efficiently.
The second thing which is I think unique to Halliburton remember we are retiring equipment as we roll out our Frac of the Future.
But that equipment was working today still viable equipment and right now because we don’t see the need for excess equipment we’re parking it possibly destining that equipment for our international operations along the way.
But if the right opportunity presents itself along the way we have the ability to redeploy some of that equipment back into the U.S.
market or not pull it out of service in order to capture share while we see that we have an opportunity to continue to give very good returns and work for the right customers and the right basins with the right technologies.
[Sam] we’ll take one more question? Thank you.
Our final question comes from Robin Shoemaker of Citi.
Your line is now open.
Thank you.
I want to ask about Mexico go back to Mexico for a minute the contract that you won in Chicontepec I believe you talked about cost recovery.
And then I think there is a fee-per-barrel arrangement after that.
So can you describe exactly how that works and why there was --- why you believe there wasn't a much broader interest among the oil service companies in these Chicontepec blocks? Yeah.
The cost per barrel or the fee-per-barrel is really the smaller piece of that type of project.
Really it’s a situation where we provide services into the project and then earn cost of recovery to get paid at what we believe are certainly accretive margins to our business.
I think the interest by others I can't say what others were necessarily interested in or not but I would say that this is very difficult work.
It takes a lot of reservoir inside in order to determine which field and how to produce over time and a full suite of services that it takes to do all of that work.
So we won that -- the Humapa that we won we are really comfortable with where we are and really the last thing that prevents broad group to really enter that is quite frankly the capital over those processes required to embark on these types of things.
I see.
Okay.
So on these increased projects that you described that are coming up in Mexico are some of these projects that will involve sort of high-end technologies or are these going to be really very competitive types of tenders? Well it could be both.
I think that a combination over describing our all of the integrated drilling not like the incentivized rounds that we just finished talking about but drilling wells for [four p-max] and a lump sum type fashion and those range from some more simple to some that are actually quite complex.
So I think we’ll see competitive -- it will be competitive just given the size of the activity.
But the type of technology required I do think will be important as those projects are with.
Thank you.
And at this time I'd like to turn the call back to management for any closing remarks.
Okay thanks everybody for your participation.
We’ll be doing follow up calls over the next couple of days.
And Sam with that you can go ahead and close the call.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This does conclude today's program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Halliburton third quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this call is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Mr.
Kelly Youngblood.
Sir you may begin.
Thanks Sam.
Good morning and welcome to the Halliburton's third quarter 2013 conference call.
Today's call is being webcast and a replay will be available on Halliburton's website for seven days.
The press release announcing the third quarter results is also available on the Halliburton website.
Joining me today are Dave Lesar CEO Jeff Miller COO and Mark McCollum CFO.
Tim Probert President of Strategy and Corporate Development will also be available today for follow-up calls.
I would like to remind our audience that some of today's comments may include forward-looking statements reflecting Halliburton's views about future events and their potential impact on performance.
These matters involve risk and uncertainties that could impact operations and financial results and cause our actual results to materially differ from our forward-looking statements.
These risks are discussed in Halliburton's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2012 Form 10-Q for the quarter-ended June 31 2013 recent current reports on Form 8-K and other Securities and Exchange Commission laws.
Our comments include non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in our third quarter press release which as I have mentioned can be found on our website.
In our discussion today we will be excluding the financial impact of the third quarter charges related to employee severance and asset write-offs $38 million after-tax or $0.04 per diluted share unless otherwise noted.
We will welcome questions after we complete our prepared remarks.
We ask that you please limit yourself to one question and one related follow-up to allow more time for others who have questions.
Now I will turn the call over to Dave.
Thank you Kelly and good morning to everyone.
Before I talk about another strong quarterly performance I would like to review the actions we have taken this year around our commitment to delivering shareholder returns to you.
This year we have repurchased approximately 4.4 billion or 10% of our outstanding shares.
Earlier this year we announced a 39% increase in our dividend.
These actions reflect our continued confidence and the strength of our business outlook.
Going forward we remain fully committed to increased shareholder returns.
We are targeting a dividend payout of at least 15% to 20% of net income supplemented by additional systematic share buybacks while leaving room for any capital spending or acquisitions we may want to do.
We have been and will continue to be relentlessly focused on delivering best-in-class returns.
Now moving to the third quarter.
Overall I am pleased with our operational results.
Total company revenue of $7.5 billion was a record quarter for Halliburton while operating income was over $1.1 billion.
We achieved record revenues this quarter in our Boots &amp; Coots Cementing Completion Tools Drill Bits Multi-Chem and Testing Product lines.
From an operating income perspective our Baroid Completion Tools Drill Bits and Testing Product lines also set new records.
Turning to the geographies.
On a year-to-date basis our Eastern Hemisphere growth continues to lead our peer group.
Compared to last year third quarter year-over-year revenue and operating income grew 17% and 30% respectively.
Sequentially the revenue improvement a 9% growth in operating income was driven by our Europe/Africa/CIS region.
In addition to record revenue in that region we saw a strong sequential improvement in margins of 300 basis points due to improved performance in our Russia North Sea and Angola operations.
Consistent with previous years we expect the fourth quarter in the Eastern Hemisphere to be our strongest quarter of the year due to seasonal year end software and equipment sales.
Moving to Latin America.
This has been a tough year as customer activity did not meet our expectations and Jeff will talk more about our fourth quarter outlook but as we look ahead to Latin America over the next few years there are several positive factors coming into play.
First Mexico activities are expected to pick up significantly as the mega tender projects ramp up in the first part of 2014.
Although we do not expect a material impact next year the recent reform discussions signal a strong opportunity in Mexico shale and deepwater markets.
In Brazil we have a leading market share today in a number of long-term deepwater contracts including some that could extend past 2020.
Although activity levels are just treading water today as deepwater activity level accelerates we see significant upside in Brazil.
However there could be some short-term bumps in the road but in the long-term Latin America is expected to be an outstanding growth market for Halliburton.
In North America we are expecting the typical seasonal decline in the fourth quarter that we have experienced in previous years.
However there are some additional transitory issues we are currently facing.
Due to the recent floods in Colorado logistical disruptions in the Niobrara where we have a very high market share are lingering into the fourth quarter which is continuing to impact our efficiency in cost structure in that basin.
These cost inefficiencies should be fixed by the end of the year.
And pricing the North America market continues to have excess supply of pressure pumping equipment and although this is improving we anticipate pricing pressure will continue as contracts review during the next quarter or so.
Accordingly we are already working on adjusting our cost structure.
Despite these transitory issues we believe that we will see margin improvement as we go through 2014 for a number of reasons.
First the efficiency trend on land plays write to our strengths.
We are not only leading the industry and execution and surface efficiency but we are now introducing new technologies which are changing the ways that customers approach their subsurface.
You will hear more about these at our Analyst Day in a couple of weeks.
The Gulf of Mexico activity levels are improving.
Currently they are shifting from drilling to completions where we have a leading market position.
There are dozen or so deepwater rigs scheduled on the calendar to arise on the Gulf next year and on those we have secured a strong drilling and evaluation position.
Thirdly our Battle Red and Frac of the Future initiatives are being rolled out now.
I have seen them start to operate in the field.
The benefits are real and we expect that they will be substantial.
We have invested a significant amount of money in our Battle Red and Frac of the Future initiatives.
As we told you on our last call when we roll out these two broad corporate initiatives we are continuously looking for ways to use them to better manage our cost structure in the organization.
During the third quarter based on the progress of these initiatives we have made adjustments to headcount and assets that resulted in a charge.
As we continue with the deployment of our Battle Red initiative over the next few quarters we expect for there to be additional headcount reductions and related severance charges.
However again as you will see at our upcoming Analyst Day we are expecting a large future payoff for these initiatives.
So overall I am very optimistic about Halliburton's relative performance as we move into 2014 and based on early conversations with our customers we are anticipating overall spend levels to increase.
Our strategy is working well and we intend to stay the course.
At our analyst day we intend to provide you more detail about our outlook for the coming years our ability to outperform our peer group how we will continue to balance our geographical portfolio and describe our path toward normalized margins for both the Eastern and Western hemisphere operations.
We will continue to drive toward expanding our global portfolio in the deepwater mature fields and unconventionals.
Now let me turn the call over to Jeff for some operational details.
Thanks Dave and good morning everyone.
Met me begin with an overview of our third quarter results.
The Eastern hemisphere had record revenue in the third quarter with sequential operating income growth of 9% driven by record quarterly revenue and improved profitability in the Europe Africa and CIS region.
Relative to the second quarter Europe/Africa/CIS were both revenue and operating income by 3% and 29% respectively.
The sequential improvement was led by improved cementing Boots &amp; Coots activity in Russia increased drilling and cementing activity in the North Sea and higher drilling and completion tool sales in Angola.
In Norway Statoil has awarded contracts to Halliburton that provide us with a leading market share in multiple services including drilling and completion fluids cementing stimulation special tools and waste management for both onshore and offshore.
The initial scope of this contract is for three years with up to six years in extensions.
This award represents a significant statement of confidence from our customers for the value-added technologies that we are bringing to the Norwegian market.
In addition we are expanding our testing portfolio in the pre-salt deepwater market in Angola.
In addition to discrete testing awards for drill stem testing and our DynaLink service Halliburton has recently been awarded contracts by multiple customers to provide a full suite of testing in subsea services in their pre-salt operations.
Activity on these wins is expect to start throughout 2014 and will give Halliburton a significant position for testing in subsea services in the Angola pre-salt market.
In conjunction with our successes in testing offshore discovery wells elsewhere in Africa and in Brazil these one demonstrate the strength of our deepwater testing and subsea business.
In the Middle East/Asia region compared to the prior quarter revenue and operating income were lower by 2% and 5% respectively.
Higher activity in Saudi Arabia was partially offset by activity delays for stimulation activity in Australia.
Also contributing to the sequential decline was the prior quarter benefit from the conclusion of the Majnoon project in Iraq and increased completions activity in Malaysia that did not repeat.
Let me speak specifically to the Kurdistan market for a moment.
This is an area that until now has been primarily focused on exploration but we are expecting development work will ramp up over the next few years following a series of successful appraisal programs.
However it is completed construction of large multiproduct line facility in Kurdistan and we are mobilizing for recent awards in cementing Sperry Baroid among other product lines.
We are still in the early days but we expect this to be a growth market for Halliburton.
In Saudi Arabia Halliburton was awarded an important three-year contract to drill and complete new wells on an existing field.
Saudi Arabia is a core market for Halliburton and we believe this one demonstrates our customers' confidence in Halliburton's ability to help plan and mobilized to execute the significant program.
Turning to Latin America we saw a significant improvement compared to the second quarter as revenues increased 6% sequentially and operating income improved by 57%.
Mexico was the primary driver for recent contract approvals resulted in an increase in the consulting and software revenue for the quarter.
In the offshore market stimulation vessel utilization was improved relative to the first half of the year.
Additionally improved profitability in Wireline and cementing in Argentina contributed to the sequential growth.
The improved results in Mexico and Argentina more than offset the activity related weakness in Brazil and Venezuela.
With respect to Brazil and Mexico we believe that the fourth quarter activity levels maybe significantly lower than originally anticipated.
There are two primary reasons for this decrease.
First in Mexico activity levels on our southern alliance the project are expected to decline meaningfully over the remaining months of the year as PEMEX ramps down the ongoing IPM work in preparation for the mega tenders.
We averaged seven rigs in the southern alliance project during the third quarter and expect to exit the year at two rigs.
This lower level of activity has been expected to continue through early 2014 and company until the new mega tender projects are expected to ramp up.
Second in Brazil we have seen a significant reduction in drilling activity over the course of the year with a shift in focus to completions.
In addition we are currently operating under a cost structure in line with the original scope of work which has not materialized.
We are working with our customer to right size our operational footprint but we expect reduced activity levels to extend through the fourth quarter and continue into the next year.
Ultimately this does not change our long-term positive outlook for Latin America.
The transition to the mega tenders in Mexico in conjunction with the startup of our incentivized Humapa contract and improved deepwater rig count give us confidence that the activity levels in Mexico will recover as each of these areas gets underway.
In Brazil our recent deepwater contract have a potential term of about eight years so although drilling activity metrics sideways for several quarters Brazil remains the largest and most active deepwater market in the world and we believe higher drilling activity levels will resume.
As a result we expect both these countries to continue to be strong contributors to our growth and profitability over time.
Now switching North America despite the significant revenue and operating income disruption from the Colorado floods we delivered sequential revenue growth and higher operating income.
Activity levels improving and cost the rest of the U.S.
land market with seasonal recovery in Canada and increased activity in the Gulf of Mexico deepwater market.
U.S.
land rig count remained sluggish and the focus from our customers continues to be on pad operations and on drilling efficiency.
As we discussed in our previous call multi-well pads account for over half of our customers drilling activities in key North America basins including the Marcellus Eagle Ford Bakken and Niobrara and we see this percentage increasing but more importantly we see increased service efficiency on horizontal drilling which is providing a mid-teens percentage reduction in drilling days on a year-over-year basis.
Together these two efficiency factors are contributing to a well count that has modestly improved even in a flat rig environment.
We are also seeing a trend towards increasing stage counts per well and in certain basins increased volumes pumped per stage.
Already we are seeing average stage count per well increase by 15% to 20% year-over-year in the Eagle Ford and in the Marcellus.
We are still in an oversupplied market today with as much as 20% excess pressure pumping capacity.
Nevertheless we believe that an increase in wells drilled per rig combined with greater service intensity driven by increased fluids and profit volumes per well will ultimately help balance the market.
We believe that these trends play to Halliburton's strength as the leading service provider in North America.
In the Gulf of Mexico we saw sequential improvement tampered by some activity delays and extended drydock maintenance on one of our large stimulation vessels.
In the fourth quarter we expect revenue improvement in the Gulf as that vessel returns to service as well as higher completions activity and end of year sales.
Looking ahead we are excited about expanding our share position in this growing market.
In addition to our leading completions position we recently deployed two new vessels focused on the shelf an intervention vessel and a fit for purpose stimulation vessel.
Additionally we believe we are well-positioned with drilling and evaluation services on the next round of incoming deepwater rigs.
To recap North America.
Activity levels continue to improve across the U.S.
land market this quarter despite the disruption from the Colorado floods.
Increased rig efficiency combined with greater service intensity continues to benefit us even with a rig count that is flat.
We are increasingly optimistic about 2014 based on early data points and will continue to be very focused on our cost structure to enable margin growth in the coming year.
Internationally we are very pleased with our year-over-year growth.
In spite of short-term activity disruptions in Latin America this year we have led our peer group in year-to-date growth and plan to continue balancing our geographic portfolio and growing our global business going forward.
Now Mark will provide some additional financial commentary.
Mark? Thanks Jeff and good morning everyone.
As Dave discussed we are continuously evaluating our cost structure within the organization as we deploy our corporate initiatives.
The ongoing Frac of the Future build as well as the final deployment of our Battle Red program is having a significant impact on the support and operational headcount needs of North America as well as equipment and inventory requirements.
During the third quarter as we begin to roll out these initiatives we completed an initial evaluation of these areas and took our first action which resulted in severance and other charges during the quarter of approximately $38 million after tax.
As Dave said based on the early impact of these strategic initiatives we believe that further rollout may result in some additional adjustments going forward.
Our corporate and other expense came in at a $102 million this quarter slightly lower than expected due to lower cost for our strategic initiatives and some lower legal expenses.
Approximately $27 million of our corporate costs were for continued investment in Battle Red and other strategic initiatives.
We anticipate the impact of these investments will be approximately $0.03 per share after tax in the fourth quarter as we begin the field deployment of the last phases of the North America Battle Red initiative.
In total we anticipate the corporate expenses will be between $110 million and $120 million for the fourth quarter.
Our effective tax rate this quarter came in at 29.5% in line with our previous guidance.
For the fourth quarter we anticipate that our tax rate will be approximately 29%.
Our capital expenditure guidance of approximately $3 billion for the full year remains unchanged.
Also during the quarter we purchased 68 million shares of common stock at a price of $48.50 per share for an aggregate cost of $3.3 billion excluding fees and expenses related to our tender offer.
These shares represented approximately 7.4% of our total number of outstanding shares.
Year-to-date we have repurchased approximately 10% of our outstanding common stock.
We have approximately $1.7 billion remaining in Board authorization for future share repurchases.
For the fourth quarter our average share count is expected to be approximately 855 million shares outstanding which reflects the full benefit of our share buyback to-date.
Additionally due to our recent $3 billion debt offering we expect interest expense to average approximately $100 million per quarter going forward.
Now moving on to our near-term outlook.
For our Eastern Hemisphere business we currently expect fourth quarter year-over-year revenue to increase by low double digits with a meaningful sequential improvement in margins into the high teens.
As mentioned earlier Latin America's sequential growth in margins are expected to be significantly impacted by activity levels in Mexico.
For the fourth quarter we now anticipate Latin America revenue to be flat sequentially and do not expect the material change in margins relative to the third quarter.
Finally for North America we anticipate the typical weather and holiday-related seasonal declined in revenue and margins in the fourth quarter.
With the transitory issues Dave outlined earlier weighing on the number a little more than usual.
As a result we believe North America will be down sequentially although we are not expecting as sharp of a decline as we had in 2012.
As we move into 2014 we anticipate North America margins to recover as customer activity resumes and we see the pay off of our strategic efficiency programs in recent cost optimization efforts.
Now I will turn the call back over to Dave for some closing comments.
Dave? Thanks Mark.
Just a quick summary Eastern Hemisphere continues to deliver top-tier growth leading the industry year-to-date and we expect a strong fourth quarter with margins in the high teens.
Latin America will be flattish but expect strong growth in 2014.
For North America we anticipate typical seasonality in the fourth quarter with some pricing pressure and lingering effects of the Colorado floods but margin improvement as we go into 2014.
Finally as demonstrated by our dividend increase earlier this year and the repurchase of 10% of our shares we are very confident in the strength of our business outlook and are focused on delivering leading shareholders returns.
With that let's open it up for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from James West of Barclays.
Your line is now open.
Congratulations on a continued strong growth this semester.
Very impressive.
Dave a question for you about the outlook for 2014 specifically on the international side.
Your peers seem to be coalescing around E&amp;P spending growth somewhere in the kind of 10% range with a higher technology content which of course plays into your strength as well as theirs.
Is that similar to your thinking initially? Yes.
Absolutely.
I think based on discussions with customers sort of contract flow that we have got in hand I would be surprised if it isn’t around that number for next year.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
Then perhaps a little bit of an unrelated follow-up for me.
With the Colorado flooding I know Mark you had mentioned at a presentation that you thought it was $0.02 $0.03 in the third quarter but that was an initial assessment.
Do you have an updated number or some type of sizing of that impact that we could think about? James this is Jeff.
For competitive reasons we are not going to give you the number other than to say that it is certainly an important part of our business and I guess I would leave you with absent that it would have been enough to move our completion margins up for North America.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thanks Jeff.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jud Bailey of ISI Group.
Your line is now open.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Question on your Latin America market.
Two biggest markets Mexico and Brazil have some different issues going on.
I was wondering if you could help us to think about margins beyond the fourth quarter.
What has to happen in Brazil in 2014 and in Mexico to see a nice recovery in margins? There is the simple increasing activity or there's some other things you guys can do to facilitate better margin growth for Latin America in 2014? Hi Jud Jeff here.
I would say that Brazil it’s the combination of activity increase would help as well as rightsizing our investment which we are in the process of doing now so there are some things that we can do and others that we need the client to do.
With respect to Mexico I think we really need to see a settling down of all the moving pieces which right now we have got incentivized contract to get started which certainly helps us as well as the turnover in the contracting around these mega tenders also brings some stability.
So I think those two things do as much as any to improve margins into next year.
And would it be fair to say that the visibility in both those markets is fairly limited near-term? And if you do get some margin improvement is it going to more backend loaded for the year? Or is there some reason we could see better improvement earlier in the year.
Well I would say we typically see quite a bit of seasonality in Latin America and so all the moving parts I don't think help in Q1.
So I would say we tend to be more backend weighted.
Our general profitability in Mexico is very strong.
So when this activity does kick up and kick back in we expect a fairly good and solid snapback.
As Jeff said that we are getting started in these new contracts in Brazil.
We need more activity but even starting those for there will be a period of time when the Brazil margins may be detrimental to our overall Latin America margins but remember these are very long-term contracts eight years and longer and there will be significant up sell opportunities as those contracts gain traction.
We have ability to introduce new technologies into that marketplace.
Thanks that's good color.
Thank you.
My second question just relates to the U.S.
land market.
I know your customers are still going through the budgeting process but maybe you could share with us anything you are hearing from your customers in terms of giving us little more color on your thoughts for 2014 in terms of activity levels and what your customers are telling you for next year? Yes.
For 2014 the outlook is fairly strong.
The discussions we are having now sees confidence in the oil window and continuing to invest.
So we certainly have a positive outlook for 2014.
It may not necessarily reflect itself in rig count but certainly in the well count and efficiencies everybody is very very focused on continuing to drive efficiencies in the marketplace.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Bill Herbert of Simmons &amp; Company.
Your line is now open.
Thanks and good morning.
Back to North America and the Q4 seasonality.
Dave I think you prophesied a typical seasonality into Q4 and yet what unfolded in the third quarter was largely atypical with regard to the flooding in Colorado.
So wouldn't that mute the seasonality in the fourth quarter relative to the third? Well I guess if we were up and blowing and going in the Niobrara it might.
But as I said that's sort of lingering into Q4.
And I think it's fair to say the visibility on Q4 right now is not as great as we would like it to be because based on conversations we are having with customers the holiday work schedule is one of the big unknowns at this point in time with Christmas falling in the middle of the week and just where various customers are in terms of spending their budgets for the year and those sorts of things.
I think we are just as we sit here today what we see is a typical Q4 unfolding in front of us and if it changes from that obviously we will have either a positive or a negative impact from there.
Got it.
And with regards to capital allocation I know you guys are not done with your planning process but could you just give us some broad parameters with regard to capital spending for '14? And then moreover the mechanics of the dividend implementation 15% to 20% of net income when does that get announced and what is that predicated on? Is that an internal view as to what you guys will be generating in terms of net income or what? Okay.
So on the capital side it is still early in the planning process but I think that right now as we look ahead while there are - we are pretty excited about the growth trajectory going into 2014 we are driving hard on efficiencies.
So that will probably continue to allow us to be more disciplined around how much capital we are putting into the marketplace.
So we don't sit here today expecting a significant increase in capital overall.
There will be some specific projects maybe some reorientation within the budget.
We will continue to rollout our Q-10s and the Frac of the Future into the North American marketplace and question is how rapidly do we do that vis-à-vis the overall market trajectory but right now don't see significant changes in the capital overall.
The dividend policy the 15% to 20% of net income it will always be sort of a moving target.
The Board has the discretion to set that dividend target they do so always in looking not just at the net income but also our cash flow and looking at our relative investment opportunities that fall ahead of us.
I guess the answer is stay tuned and we will be talking with the Board and then making adjustments as necessary but our cash flow continue to be very very positive.
Even with all the actions that we took this quarter we are very pleased with the cash flow in the quarter.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Waqar Syed of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is now open.
Thank you.
My question relates to international service pricing.
What are you seeing there? Either the same trends are you seeing some better pricing now? This is Jeff.
As we look out into the Eastern Hemisphere we have continued to see steady improvement but no inflection point if that's where that question is leading so there is a lot of visibility on the growth in the Eastern Hemisphere or internationally and to a large degree we are built into that.
Waqar this is Dave.
I would also add to that any tendering on large project still is tending to be very very competitive.
What will it take to change that kind of competitive pressure? What do you think the industry needs to see? It would be a dislocation sort of event where there is inadequate capacity to meet demand but I would say that as Dave said the majority of the contracts are fairly large and there is a lot of visibility of those contracts so I don't see kind of any surprises in the Eastern Hemisphere that would create that sort of supply/demand dislocation.
Then vis-à-vis Brazil you mentioned about rightsizing and you also mentioned if you need to get customer approval for that but when do you think you will know one way or other whether you can right size there or not.
What's the kind of timeline there? Yes.
We expect to see some of those answers into Q1.
I would expect.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Angie Sedita of UBS.
Your line is now open.
Hi so we talked a little about on your last conference call.
Can you give us your updated thoughts us on the U.S.
pressure pumping markets and maybe we could reach equilibrium in conjunction with that on the Frac of the Future initiative given this competitive environment and the value to rolling out the Frac of the Future program at accelerated pace.
As you are rolling out to this program are you retiring or relocating equipments? Yes.
With respect to the Frac of the Future we are continuing to roll that out and as we rolled it out we have retired equipment or moved that equipment overseas so yes we see value in continuing that program and getting the equipment into the market.
With respect to attrition sort on the back of current utilization in the North America as we said there is about a 20% we believe oversupply in the market now though we do see increasing drilling efficiency sort of the rate that is greater than increasing completion efficiency and because of that we expect to see attrition continue.
You know at what point that is? I expect certainly out into next year late next year or beyond though any spiking gas activity will certainly take that out very quickly.
Okay so you are thinking at this time late this year or late 2014 or potentially even fairly 2015? That's right.
Okay and then as an unrelated follow up.
Can you give us an update on your efforts to enter the artificial lift segment? I know you purchased a small artificial lift company some time ago.
Are there other acquisition opportunities out there or do you think you can grow this business internally? And if you do grow it internally how long do you think it will take to have critical mass in the segment? Angie this is Dave.
Let me handle that one.
We have talked over the couple of calls about the entry into artificial lift especially ESPs.
And I can tell you it's a fantastic business.
So it's one of our fastest growing businesses although it's not big enough to move the needle for us right now but because we like it so much we are going to look at both driving organic growth as well as bolt-on acquisitions.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from David Anderson of JPMorgan.
Your line is now open.
Thanks good morning.
On the Europe/Africa/CIS side I notice that the C&amp;P margins spiked this quarter.
I was just wondering is this from point forward product sales into the third quarter and therefore should we expect those margins to kind of head back into the mid-teens in the fourth quarter? No.
This is just on the back of the strengthening business both completions and stimulation.
Okay that's great.
Okay and I had one other question that is completely unrelated here just on your Battle Red and Frac of the Future.
I just wondered if you just help us conceptualize how the impact is going to play out here.
Can you kind of tell us if you look and say one of your frac fleet say two years ago versus one of the new fleets today where is the biggest difference here in terms of the cost and efficiency? You have talked about reducing labor.
I am just wondering is it the size of the frac spread is it the reduced maintenance spending? Now you have been into this for a couple of years.
Where do you see the biggest impact here? Stay tuned for our Analyst Day Dave.
That's where we are going to lay it all out here in a couple of weeks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jim Wicklund of Credit Suisse.
Your line is now open.
Good morning guys.
Hey Jim.
Your CapEx is significantly above your DD&amp;A and has been for a while and it's significantly higher on a ratio basis above your peers.
Now you are generating fabulous returns on capital.
So I am not claiming but can you explain to us why your CapEx versus your DD&amp;A is so much higher than your peers.
I don't have enough insight into our peers to understand what they are doing on their capital spending.
I know what drives ours.
For a long time we are spending a lot of maintenance cost on old fully depreciated equipment.
So when we evaluate what we are doing we are looking at maintenance cost and depreciation on a combined whole.
So yes our depreciation is going up as we have new equipment we have relatively fast depreciation rates relative to useful lives of that equipment in terms of what we can do with it long-term and is driving our maintenance cost down on a percentage of revenue basis overall.
So it's a zero some gain.
The other thing that we of course had to do over the last several years has made some fairly substantial investments in manufacturing technology centers and fixed assets basis of things around the world to position ourselves for the growth in Eastern Hemisphere and Latin America that we are achieving.
So it may not look as productive but the fact is that's handy for being able to be there and to serve those customers in the places around the world.
So that's been a fairly large percentage of our overall CapEx and that will probably continue as we continue to expand and in particularly in the unconventional market around the world over the next several years.
Yes Jim this is Dave.
Let me just give you a little perspective on what's Mark saying.
If you add up the amount that we have spent on manufacturing our big new facility in Singapore our big new technology centers in Huston and in Saudi and Brazil they are probably pushing a $1 billion just for those.
Plus you add up the infrastructure we have built out in the U.S.
to help our logistics and those are current cash flow long-term depreciation but I am telling you long-term payback things for Halliburton.
So I think that we have had a spike in the fixed assets side of the business but they will pay off in the long run.
Okay.
So I guess the returns you are generating I am not complaining but I was curious.
My follow-up if I could Battle Red.
When we hear you have record revenues but that you are laying people off people get spooked.
They think that's foreshadowing.
Where's the Battle Red initiative? Where the layoffs being done as this all the U.S.
initiative so far? I realize there initiatives but can you kind of tell us where the targeted goal is in terms of people to where it's occurring so we can have greater confidence that this isn't foreshadowing for some slowdown? Yes.
Jim the bulk of that was in North America.
It was geared around our efficiency drive and it was taking out basically as we have to do things more efficiently we find that there are people that are excess we are able to effectively do more efficient work in the back office.
Also even at the co-pay so our ability to relook at how efficiently we do work so I would say that's not foreshadowing.
What that is is really coming to fruition sort of our confidence and the ability to execute the work either with fewer people or fewer people in the back-office.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Brad Handler of Jefferies.
Your line is now open.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Maybe I will stick with the Western Hemisphere as well please and start with a question that may feel little bit more open ended than I like but let's see how you guys respond to it.
I guess I am curious as '14 is shaping up for you.
Whether you see the relative opportunity it's looking at things like reduce cluster spacing higher sand per stage some of things you have mentioned.
I guess I am curious whether the opportunity seems more bent or more shaped by more customers of yours adopting those kinds of measures more aggressively or in other words sort of raising the averages if you will across the landscape or if it is a little bit more sort of rig count and well count-driven.
That is more customer-driven than that is rig count-driven.
I think this is though just a view of how to get better frac propagation what could be the technologies and so I would say it is a technical view more so than it is sort of the overall averages just moving up.
Okay but more of your customers are applying some of those enhanced recovery if you will or enhanced techniques.
Brad we have talked about in the past.
It's really service intensity and it's sort of service intensity beyond just getting more fracs or more wells down per pad.
It's actually now applying some of the new technologies that we have to make better wells lower cost of BOE and make our customers more money but also generate additional revenues for us.
Then if the rig count kicks up on top of that that would just the additional plus to the upside.
Great.
Okay that's some fruitful thought.
An unrelated follow-up.
I just would appreciate some more clarity also on Mexico.
If your current activity is declining at least onshore first of all is the jack-up market at all an offset here even as you hit early in '14? Then secondly can you maybe just give us an update on the mega tenders and if there has been any kind of delay in terms of your expectations and in terms of getting those awarded and again trying to place when some of that work might kick in for everybody? Yes.
I mean there are offset.
That's a big market in Mexico so there are offsets and there is offshore work that's being done there is deepwater work that's being done.
For example the incentivized contract so there are offsets in that market.
With that said the mega tenders are important because it sort of refreshes budgets and resets the table in terms of work well in to the future.
As far as the timing of that goes no I am not surprised by where that stands.
I mean knew that that would be a large undertaking and take time for our client to get organized around how to put that out.
Again our view is sort of early Q2 is a realistic sort of startup time for that activity if things proceed as planned.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from of Doug Becker of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is now open.
Thanks.
Jeff you mentioned the completion efficiencies are increasing in a slower rate than the drilling efficiencies.
Just hoping to get some order of magnitude here and what technologies should we be keeping an eye on that could flip this? In other words what technologies might make completion efficiencies outpace drilling efficiencies going forward in just perpetuating the oversupply in frac? Yes as we look at that if we think that the drilling efficiencies up in that 20% range and we look at completion efficiency somewhat less than that we will see it probably about in that 7% 8% sort of efficiency in drilling that's outpacing the efficiency in completions.
I think one of the things that tempers completion efficiency is going to be the size of jobs and the amount of activity requires completion actually get in some cases bigger rather than smaller and this where the frac purification [ph] happens.
So again my outlook is that we continue to add equipment over time as opposed to the other.
Okay and then Mark you mentioned that North American margins would be down in the fourth quarter but not as bad as last year.
Does this mean for margins we should be assuming a normal seasonal decline 50 100 basis points just on our numbers? Yes that's exactly what you should expect.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Kurt Hallead of RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is now open.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Hi Kurt.
I am just curious.
You guys have addressed the excess capacity situation.
We continue to do this it seems on a quarter-by-quarter basis.
Just wanted to get an update from you as to your latest thought as to when you think the supply demand curves may balance? Any guesses on that in 2014? Yes this is Jeff.
I would say it is like 2014 or early '15 by the time when we start to see that tightening though as I just described I do think that we are down the path that it consumes more equipment rather than adding more equipment.
Okay and then you guys referenced some of your contract renewal and repricing and so on.
In general what kind of magnitude of pricing pressures are you seeing at this point vis-à-vis your prior contracts? For competitive reasons that's something we just can't give.
Okay.
Sorry.
No fair enough.
Alright That's it for me.
Thanks a lot.
Our next question come from Jim Crandell of Cowen.
Your line is now open.
Good morning.
You said in I think your press release that you had lower profits from Iraq and then you stated on your call about the new contract ending.
I thought you had written that down to breakeven anyway? Could you reconcile that for me? Now Jim what happened in the second quarter as we really made a hard push to get that contract done at the end of the second quarter.
It's built over a little bit but the reality of that push it increased our profitability on that contract as we took it across the finish line.
Now it's over and while there is a little bit of work left a very small phase two we finished that first phase of those big contracts the initial awarded contracts.
So it hasn't impacted in reducing the overall profitability in Iraq overall.
But that isn't to say that we are losing money there.
Just the opposite.
In fact as we go forward on our new contracts we are trying to be very very disciplined about the work that we take on and making sure that it continues to improve our profitability in that region going forward.
It is magnitude as always and not the margins.
Mark how do you see the overall levels of activity trending for Halliburton in Iraq going forward? Go ahead Jeff.
Yes.
I have got a positive outlook on our activity as we go into 2014.
So what I would say is we are much more disciplined around the contracts that we pursue and the terms under which we will accept them so it's returns and margins first as opposed to top line growth and we have been as I said very disciplined about that so I am confident that we will grow that business but again grow business that we can all be happy with.
Okay.
Just one quick follow-up.
Did you say that the price deterioration that you are seeing in the U.S.
and that you expect in the U.S.
is frac-only and are there any other product lines in the quarter which experienced price deterioration in the U.S.? Jim this is Jeff.
No.
I would say that the pricing pressure we see is more widespread than just fracturing.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jeff Tillery of Tudor Pickering Holt.
Your line is now open.
Pickering Holt</strong> Hi.
Good morning.
With Q4 a heavier time of the year for contract rollovers in the frac market and spot crews for the industry generally is just not making any money.
I think it's obviously contracts will be a bit more competitive.
Can you just talk about how your strategy as you go into these rollovers how you think to differentiate yourselves? From a differentiation standpoint Jeff we absolutely believe that in our ability to deliver efficiency with that technology I won't through them with PermStim but a whole range of chemistry technologies and others that absolutely differentiate Halliburton in the market so we look at contracts in any sort of environment those are the things that we turn to and that our clients count on Halliburton to do.
The competition that varies basin-to-basin and so depending on the amount of capacity that's there the complexity of the reservoir we can make a different value proposition with customers on differentiation.
In some cases where they have gone off and the customer has experienced what someone else has done we have been able to take that fork back at a little bit higher price.
Pickering Holt</strong> Then around (inaudible).
It's been focused my understanding mostly North America with the successes you are having there.
Any reason to think you won't continue this push globally? No.
No.
We expect that as we go into '14 and beyond we will be staging the rollout once we kind of get all the kings out in the North America the rest of the world is ready to go and so we will be rolling those out over time although probably at a slightly slower space than we used for the North America rollout just given its size and complexity.
Sam we believe we have time for one more caller.
Yes sir.
Our final question comes from Scott Gruber of Sanford Bernstein.
Your line is now open.
Yes.
Thanks for squeezing me in.
Back on the domestic frac market pricing continues to decline but it appears that the operating margins for the industry is actually up.
Is it fair to say that the primary driver of the pricing weakness today is a willingness by the pumpers to actually lower rates to improve asset turns via these 24-hour services? My question is actually would we still be seeing pricing declines if there wasn't a trend toward more 24-hour work? The question was would we see a decline without the 24-hour work.
It's an interesting question.
Scott I don't know for sure whether we would know that or not because obviously you can't ever exactly know what motivates our competitors to sort of come in with the pricing that they do but I do think that often times what we are seeing is guys really wanting to get equipment to work and willing to take a lower price if that's necessary to do that.
The question always is okay but are they really creating the value for the customer.
In our sort of overall value proposition we are always focused on.
It's not just the cost per stage to the customer but what are they achieving on an increased production driving down the overall cost on a per BOE basis and when customers get focused on that I think that the results begin to change in our favor.
Well are you still seeing declines in pricing for single spot wells? Can you identify contracts new incremental 24-hour work with the pricing pressure is a lot more severe as pumpers compete for that work? Is the asset turn improvements huge.
Well I guess what I will say is we don't typically I mean we don't pursue that one off market that you just described.
And so I would just from competitive standpoint I wouldn't walk through our contracts and our pricing on those different contracts.
So suffice to say that we tend to work in a more contracted fashion but we are on a longer period of time.
Thank you.
And at this time I will turn the call back to management for any closing comments.
Yes before closing the call I just want to remind everybody that on November 6 we will be having our Analyst Day and it will be webcast.
You will be able to access the webcast link from the Investor Relations page on halliburton.com.
And with that Sam I will turn it back over to you to close up call.
Thank you sir.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This does conclude today's program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Halliburton Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I’d now like to introduce your host for today’s conference Mr.
Kelly Youngblood.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you Sam.
Good morning and welcome to the Halliburton's fourth quarter 2013 conference call.
Today’s call is being webcast and a replay will be available on Halliburton's website for seven days.
The press release announcing the fourth quarter results is also available on the Halliburton website.
Joining me today are Dave Lesar CEO Jeff Miller COO and Mark McCollum CFO.
I’d like to remind our audience that some of today’s comments may include forward-looking statements reflecting Halliburton's views about future events and their potential impact on performance.
These matters involve risk and uncertainties that could impact operations and financial results and cause our actual results to materially differ from our forward-looking statements.
These risks are discussed in Halliburton's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2012 Form 10-Q for the quarter-ended September 30 2013 recent current reports on Form 8-K and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
Our comments include non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in our fourth quarter press release which as I have mentioned can be found on our website.
In our discussion today we will be excluding the financial impact of the fourth quarter charges related to employee severance and other restructuring charges during the quarter of $28 million after-tax or $0.03 per diluted share and the third quarter charges related to employee severance and other restructuring charges during that quarter of $38 million after-tax or $0.04 per diluted share unless otherwise noted.
We will welcome questions after we complete our prepared remarks.
We ask that you please limit yourself to one question and one related follow-up to allow more time for others who have questions.
Now I will turn the call over to Dave.
Thank you Kelly and good morning to everyone.
Let me begin with a few of our key accomplishments in 2013.
First I’m very proud to say that we delivered industry leading international revenue growth in 2013 specifically for the full year our Eastern Hemisphere grew a remarkable 17% with profit growth of 23%.
That coupled with a solid year in North America resulted in a record year for the Company with revenue totaling $29.4 billion.
We also set new revenue records this year in all of our international regions and in both of our divisions.
From an operating income perspective we achieved new full year records in our Middle East Asia region and in six of our 13 product lines.
I want to express my gratitude to our 77 000 employees around the globe for their hard work and dedication that helped us deliver these outstanding results.
In 2013 we also demonstrated our strong commitment to delivering superior shareholder returns.
We repurchased approximately $4.4 billion or 10% of our outstanding shares.
We had also increased our dividend twice during the year for a total payout increase of 67% over our 2012 dividend rate.
These actions reflect our continued confidence in the strength of our business outlook.
We have been and will continue to be relentlessly focused on delivering consistent execution and best-in-class returns.
Our strategy has worked well for us and we intend to stay the course.
The cornerstones of our strategy remain unchanged expanding our share within the deepwater market helping our customers maximize recovery from mature fields and leading in global unconventional development.
We believe that these are sustainable growth segments for Halliburton which will allow us to generate superior revenue growth margins and returns.
So I think we had a really good year given what the market gave us.
Now before we delve deeper into the fourth quarter I think I should cut right to the chase and look at how we believe 2014 will play out.
I think that will help provide you with some context for the rest of today’s discussion.
So let’s start with our 2014 view for all of Halliburton Company.
Let me begin by saying that we’re very optimistic about the coming year and our ability to achieve robust revenue and operating income growth for the total company.
As we look at the 2014 landscape today we see the following.
Based on customer surveys and some discussions with customers we see total customer drilling and completion spending increasing by the mid to upper single digit percentages with higher spending percentage increases in the Eastern Hemisphere and a bit lower in North America.
However from Halliburton revenue standpoint we believe we will outpace the market rate of spending increases in both the Eastern Hemisphere and North America and revenue growth for the full year could approach double-digits.
We also believe that overall margins will take a step higher both in Eastern Hemisphere and North America.
These expectations provide to framework for our current 2014 operating plan which reflects continued superior returns significant higher cash generations and solid double-digit growth in earnings per share.
Now let me do a little bit deeper dive into our outlook and the major market segments.
In the Eastern Hemisphere for 2014 we anticipate customer spend to be largely driven by our NOC customers.
With the contracts we have in hand we’re planning on low double-digit revenue growth for the Hemisphere led by Saudi Arabia Iraq China and Australia and our Middle East and Asia businesses and by Russia and Angola and our Europe Africa CIS region.
We also anticipate 2014 Eastern Hemisphere margins to take a step higher quarter-over-quarter when compared to 2013 approaching 20% by year-end and averaging in the upper teens for the year.
In 2013 North America played out as we predicted.
We saw market driven by increased drilling and completion efficiencies with a relatively flat overall rig count and industry overcapacity.
The volatility of the past few years is evolved into a more stable market environment.
In the fourth quarter of 2012 if you recall we called the bottom on our North America margins and we were right.
We've seen a marked improvement in margins since that time.
For 2014 we are now forecasting U.S.
spending to increase in the mid-single digit range based on recent moderations in liquids pricing outlook.
Of course we naturally believe our growth rates will exceed that increase in customer spend given our strong position in North America.
On the margin front for North America we believe that over the course of the year we will see our margins increase about 200 basis points.
We expect the U.S.
land rig count to modestly increase in 2014 driven primarily by the continued shift to horizontals in the Permian basin.
The Permian started 2013 with less than 35% of the rig count running horizontal but we anticipate more than half the rig count will be horizontal by the end of 2014.
We also expect to see a continued trend in higher well efficiencies due to increased pad drilling more 24-hour operations rig fleet upgrades and significant advancements in drilling and completion technologies.
In 2013 we saw average drilling days per horizontal well drop by approximately 14% compared to 2012 and we anticipate horizontal drilling efficiencies to again improve in the mid to upper single digits in 2014.
Storage levels are back near the five-year average but production levels remained elevated both with associated gas in the liquids plays as well as some continued robust activity in the Marcellus basin.
Continued strength in natural gas prices could provide some upside potential but we are not optimistic there will be a meaningful uptick in gas activities in the near term.
With regards to Latin America we expect 2014 to be a challenging year with fairly steady activity in all countries expect Mexico and Brazil both of which are in transition.
As previously communicated Brazil deepwater drilling activity levels have been both expectations and our expected to be even worst throughout 2014.
Petrobras has recently said the deepwater rig count for 2014 will be even less than the already depressed levels of 2013.
The entire services industry in Brazil is looking for relief to the over capitalization as that has occurred there in anticipation of a much higher deepwater rig count.
No relief has been forthcoming at this point.
We have an excellent long-term contract position in Brazil and I still believe it will pay off in the long run but for now the depreciation and personnel costs of our high capital investment is having a severe downward pressure on Brazil margins.
However we intend to stay the course and with Petrobras to try to gain some relief over the next several quarters.
In Mexico reduced activity levels on land are expected to continue through the first half of 2014 as we transition from our prior South Alliance 2 projects to already identified new opportunities in the country.
Last quarter we announced the win of the largest incentivized project contract called Humapa and I am pleased to say today that based on the preliminary tender results we are also positioned to win Mesozoic 1 the largest of the integrated mega tender projects.
These large contract wins will result in higher revenues in Mexico but the mobilization for them will take some time.
In the meantime I've made the decision to not reduce our headcount or support costs as these resources will soon be needed on these projects hopefully by the third quarter.
Therefore this ongoing cost will go directly against our profitability until the revenue stream starts back up.
In addition last year PEMEX pushed the annual software and consulting blanket order approval process back further into the year delaying their release until its third and fourth quarters.
While it is difficult to predict whether this typical approval process is the new norm we do know that we will be expanding our consulting work with PEMEX in 2014 and beyond.
This could result in us incurring costs that will directly hit our process until the blanket order is signed and revenue can be recognized.
Both of these items are transitory in nature but will clearly lay in our profitability in Mexico for probably the first six months of 2014.
And while this is not an optimal outcome I do strongly believe this approach is in the best interest of our company for the long-term success of our business in Mexico a market we believe has long-term sustainable value to us.
So we are strongly committed to both Mexico and Brazil through this transition period.
We believe these issues are short-term bumps on the road but because of their margins for the Latin America region we'll likely be in the upward single digits until activity begins to recover in the back half of the year.
Over the long-term though Latin America is expected to an outstanding growth market for us and Jeff will give you some details on that in a bit.
So overall our strategy is working well.
We intend to stay the course in the coming year.
I am optimistic about our ability to grow North American revenue and margins realize industry leading revenue and margin growth in our international business which should result in double-digit EPS growth.
We also remain focused on consistent execution superior financial performance and industry-leading returns.
Now let me turn the call over to Jeff and he'll give you some operational details.
Thanks Dave.
Good morning everyone.
Let me begin with an overview of our fourth quarter results.
Overall I'm pleased with our operational results.
Total company revenue of 7.6 billion was a record quarter for Halliburton with operating income of 1.2 billion.
We achieved record revenues this quarter in our completion tools multi-chem landmark wireline and perforating and testing product lines.
During the quarter our landmark and testing product lines also set new operating income records.
Turning to the geographies our Eastern Hemisphere has record revenue for the quarter with 14% year-over-year growth while operating income grew 10% for the same period.
Sequentially East Hemisphere revenue and operating income improved 8% and 14% respectively driven by our Middle East Asia region.
Relative to the third quarter Europe Africa CIS grew by 4% with slightly higher operating income despite some modest weather issues in the North Sea.
The UK led the improvement with increased drilling and offshore wireline activity.
Also contributing to the growth was increased stimulation in Boots &amp; Coots activity in Algeria and seasonally higher year-end software sales in Russia and throughout Continental Europe.
Partially offsetting the growth was lower drilling and wireline activity in Egypt.
In Angola we performed our first pre-salt deepwater open-hole logging jobs in the country on two wells for Cobalt International.
Our open-hole wireline logging suite of tools including nuclear magnetic resonance imaging coring seismic and reservoir formation pressure testing and sampling services delivered high quality petrophysical geophysical and reservoir information for our customer.
We also used our ICE Core fluid analysis technology which debuted in the fourth quarter.
We continue to build customer confidence in our technology and formation evaluation capability through jobs like this and the recent successes logging deepwater discovery wells elsewhere in Africa.
In the Middle East Asia region compared to the prior quarter revenue and operating income grew by 12% and 28% respectively.
Seasonal year-end software and equipment sales led the improvement for the quarter followed by higher stimulation activity in Australia and increased drilling activity in Malaysia and Thailand.
In Indonesia we received two major project wins in the quarter.
The first is a three-year project management win valued at over $200 million to oversee the drilling logging and testing of challenging high pressure high temperature geothermal wells.
This is the testimony to Halliburton's unique leadership in delivering high pressure high temperature solutions.
The second win is a series of contracts to provide directional drilling wireline and completion services in a multi-field deepwater project over five years.
This is expected to be the largest development today in Indonesia.
Also during the quarter Halliburton successfully completed the first -- the industries first fully acoustic telemetry controlled and monitored deepwater drill stem test.
Using our DynaLink Wireless Telemetry System we send acoustic control signals down hole operating the well test valves and fluid sampling system while also receiving real time reservoir data at surface.
The enhanced flexibility and control during this operation saved our customer five rig days.
This advancement along with deepwater contract wins in Indonesia and Angola reflect our leading global completions position and our evolution towards becoming a compelling choice for deepwater drilling and evaluation services.
As we deploy new technologies into the Eastern Hemisphere we’re seeing strategic upsell opportunities within our existing contracts and have been able to increase pricing accordingly with new contracts.
Turning to Latin America; revenue and operating income were essentially flat compared to the third quarter.
This is the net result of higher yearend software sales increased cementing activity and the recognition of a value added tax refund receivable in Brazil which offset a decline in activity related to our Mexico Southern Alliance 2 contract.
As discussed on our last earnings call activity levels on the Southern Alliance 2 project has declined meaningfully as PEMEX ramps down the ongoing IPM work in preparation for the mega tender projects.
We averaged only three rigs for the Southern Alliance 2 project during the fourth quarter as compared to seven rig average in the third quarter.
Further we expect to average two rigs on those project in the first half of 2014.
Looking at the Mexico mega tenders the number of projects tendered dropped from 8 to 10 resulting in only three ATG projects in Northern Mexico plus the original five projects in the south.
The remaining ATG projects were also smaller in scope than initially expected.
Based on the preliminary results of the bid opening we are positioned to be awarded work in the Mesozoic the largest single contract in the mega tender round.
The ATG and tertiary projects are the least technically challenging of the tenders and have the highest number of submitted bids.
Who would not have been interested in doing these projects at the pricing we saw it took to win them.
The Mesozoic work by contrast has extremely complex geology resulting in fewer qualified bidders and will likely result in better margins and returns.
As we said before we are very selective on the integrated projects that we pursue.
As a return’s driven organization we’re only interested in winning work that generates superior margins and returns.
We believe that the Mesozoic project and the Humapa contract that will begin in the second quarter that’s squarely in this economic profile.
We look forward to the formal award of the mega tenders in the first quarter mobilization to begin in the second and in full activity levels in the back half of 2014.
And in Brazil as Dave said we saw a significant reduction in drilling activity over the course of 2013.
We believe that 2014 will be a very challenging year for Latin America.
The uncertainty around the timing of when we will be able to right-size our cost structure in Brazil coupled with the delays to the submission of the mega tenders in Mexico have meet our growth expectations for 2014.
Ultimately however this does not change our long-term outlook for Latin America.
The transition to the mega tenders in Mexico in conjunction with the start up of our incentivized Humapa contract gives us confidence that activity levels in Mexico will recover as these areas get underway.
And in Brazil although drilling activity could continue to decline in the near term our recent contract wins have a potential term of up to eight years and we believe higher drilling activity levels will resume.
Over the long-term we expect both of these countries to continue to be strong contributors to our growth and profitability.
Switching to North America weather related activity disruptions resulted in sequential drop in both revenue and operating income.
However activity levels were stronger than expected during the holiday season which helped to minimize that sequential decline.
We executed our highest U.S.
base count of the year in the month of October and activity levels remain strong throughout most of September before declining during the holidays.
Several areas including the Bakken Permian Basin and Marcellus got off to a slow start in January due to weather disruptions but activity levels have since resent.
We expect first quarter activity levels to be similar to the fourth quarter as our completions calendar is looking very active over the coming months; however this outlook is subject to additional weather delays notably end markets like the Rockies where we have a large market share of position.
In addition we also renewed a number of long-term contracts in the fourth quarter with price concessions that will take effect during the first quarter.
Looking ahead our customers continue to focus on horizontal drilling efficiency and multi-well pad operations.
Pad wells account for over half our activity today and even in the Permian the last area to shift the horizontal drilling pad activity is estimated to be over 20% in both the Midland and Delaware Basins.
These market conditions underscore the need for our HALvantage initiatives.
As you know HALvantage includes Frac of the Future and Battle Red as well as other strategic cost oriented programs.
We continue to deploy Q10’s and SandCastle’s into the market and expect to see our fleet cross the 20% mark in the first quarter.
The Battle Red program meanwhile is expected to be deployed into over half of our North American operations by the end of the first quarter including the frontline smartphone technology.
Once we have a couple of quarters behind this we intend to provide a more in-depth assessment of the HALvantage rollout.
At this time I’d like to give you an update on CYPHER; our Seismic-to-Stimulation Service.
CYPHER was launched publicly in the fourth quarter and today we have over two dozen programs running for a number of customers across the major basins.
In November we summarized the results of our early tests where we averaged over 20% improvement in production in North America.
Today I would like to highlight one of our pilot projects which recently completed its first year.
Our customer had a series of underperforming wells in a Barnett asset and Halliburton was engaged to invigorate its program.
The first step was to build an earth model from existing seismic log and core data as well as production results.
This phase identified a number of sweet spots including several that have been bypassed in the initial well placement.
By understanding where to drill and where to land the wells the second phase yielded over a 50% uplift and estimated ultimate recovery or EUR per well and the average CYPHER well produced at a level beyond the best pre existing wells.
Our next step was maximizing fracture complexity and production.
With each iterative well the CYPHER service was using Halliburton’s proprietary complex fracture model to learn where to complete the well and then how to complete the well.
By the conclusion of the third phase CYPHER had more than doubled the average EUR per well.
One year later CYPHER has clearly demonstrated its value.
Through the smart service we’re working with the client to continuously incorporate new technology and techniques to improve production not only in this asset but on several others.
We believe that CYPHER is a game changer for our customers and for Halliburton.
We will change the way we go to market and will significantly differentiate us in the North American frac market.
We’re also seeing a consistent adoption of our Custom Chemistry Solutions including our RockPerm service and it's associated OilPerm Formation Mobility Modifiers.
Through RockPerm we demonstrate to our customers how a customized affected package including OilPerm can generate appreciable production improvements compared to offset wells.
Since beginning field trials in the second quarter of 2013 Halliburton has utilized RockPerm and OilPerm on over 2000 jobs.
Moving to the Gulf of Mexico we saw sequential revenue and profit improvement from increased drilling activity and the return of one of our larger simulation vessels to service.
Going into 2014 we believe we are well positioned with drilling and evaluation of services for the additional 14 to 16 deepwater rigs that are scheduled to arrive during the year.
We are also optimistic about the higher levels of completion sales during 2014 given our strong market position in both deepwater and lower tertiary completions.
To close out North America we believe the current environment continues to favor Halliburton.
There are two key differentiators with our customers today; efficient reliable execution and improved production.
We believe these trends play the Halliburton strengths as the leading service provider in North America and that our HALvantage and CYPHER initiatives give us a clear competitive advantage.
Based on early signals from our customers we're optimistic about the activity outlook for 2014 and we'll continue to be relentlessly focused on our cost structure to enable margin growth in the coming year.
Internationally we're very pleased with our year-over-year growth in spite of activity headwinds in Latin America.
We've led our peer group in delivering international revenue growth and expect to continue to expand our global business in 2014.
We believe that continued above-market rate growth will be driven by recent wins and new projects markets where we've made strategic investments from the introduction of new technology and from modest pricing increases and cost recovery on select contracts.
Now Mark will provide some additional financial commentary.
Mark? Thanks Jeff.
Good morning everyone.
As mentioned last quarter we've been evaluating our cost structure within the organization as we deploy our HALvantage corporate initiatives.
These initiatives are having a significant impact on the support and operational headcount needs primarily in North America as well as equipment and inventory requirements.
During the fourth quarter as we progressed with the rollout of these initiatives we took further restructuring actions which resulted in severance and other charges during the quarter of approximately $38 million before tax.
Our corporate and other expense totaled $99 million this quarter and included approximately $22 million for continued investment in these HALvantage strategic initiatives.
These activities will continue throughout 2014 but the related costs should begin to decline in the second half of the year.
We anticipate the impact of these investments will again be approximately $0.02 per share after tax in the first quarter.
Including these strategic costs we anticipate that corporate expenses for the first quarter will be in line with the fourth quarter of 2013.
Our effective tax rate for the fourth quarter came in lower than anticipated at 26% due to some favorable tax items in Latin America but our tax rate does continue to fall as our international taxable earnings continue to grow.
As we go forward into 2014 we're expecting the first quarter effective tax rate to be approximately 29% which is about 100 basis points than our normalized rate as we exit 2013.
This is driven solely by the exploration of the federal research and experimentation tax credit which we hope will be reapproved by Congress sometime in 2014.
Cash flows from operating activities in 2013 were approximately $4.4 billion representing growth of 22% compared to the prior year.
We also generated approximately $1.3 billion in cash adjusted for stock repurchases and a new debt we issued last year.
And moving in 2014 we believe we're well positioned to generate significantly more cash and that it will grow sustainably in the coming years.
We have previously committed to grow the percentage of cash available for distribution to shareholders up to roughly 35% of our operating cash flows over the next few years which has nearly doubled our historic trend.
And based on our 2013 results we're well on our way toward achieving this goal.
We anticipate that our capital expenditures for 2014 will be approximately $3 billion which is generally consistent with our 2013 spending level.
We expect our international spend to continue to outweigh our North America's spend in 2014.
We also expect our 2014 depreciation and amortization to be approximately $2.2 billion.
During the fourth quarter our Board of Directors approved the 20% increase in the quarterly dividend from $0.125 to $0.15 per share.
This was the second dividend increase in 2013 representing a cumulative 67% increase over our quarterly dividend rate in 2012.
As announced earlier in 2013 our intention going forward is for our dividend payout to equal at least 15% to 20% of our net income.
Additionally we currently have approximately $1.7 billion in share repurchase authorization from our Board of Directors that is available to use for stock buybacks.
As we moved into 2014 we're anticipating a seasonal sequential decline in international revenue and margins during the first quarter due to reduced software and equipment sales as well as weather-related weakness in the North Sea Eurasia and Australia.
On a year-over-year basis for the first quarter we anticipate an upper single digit percentage increase in the Eastern Hemisphere revenue with the modest improvement in margins which is evidence of our expanding international market position.
Beginning in the second quarter we expect Eastern Hemisphere activity levels to recover from the seasonal impact and margins to steadily improve over the course of the year with full year margins averaging in the upper teens.
For the Latin America we expect a seasonal decline in first quarter revenue and margins to be more severe than normal due to our elevated cost structure in Brazil and the ramp down of the Mexico Southern Alliance 2 project as Jeff discussed a little bit ago.
Also as Dave discussed the sequential decline is also exacerbated by the timing of our annual consulting blanket order renewal in Mexico.
We're currently expecting a mid teens sequential decline in revenue in the first quarter and margins in Latin America to be in the upper single digits.
At this time it's difficult to provide full year guidance for Latin America until we hear the outcome of the negotiations with our customer in Brazil and receive formal contract awards in Mexico.
Concluding with North America we're anticipating a typical weather impact in the first quarter plus some additional pricing pressure for contract renewals that went into effect at the beginning of 2014.
Subject to severe weather disruptions we're currently expecting first quarter revenue and margins in North America to be in line with the fourth quarter of 2013.
Now I'll turn the call back over to Dave for some closing comments.
Thanks Mark.
Just in a quick summary we executed very well in 2013.
I believe we had a good year with what the market gave us and delivered what we said we would.
Bottom line for 2014 is we expect all of this to translate into double-digit EPS growth.
So with that let's turn it over to questions.
Thank you sir.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from Jim Wicklund of Credit Suisse.
Your line is now opened.
Good morning gentlemen.
Good morning Jim.
Remind to write-off Latin America as my vacation spot for this year.
The CapEx that you guys have spent over the last couple of years primarily in the Eastern Hemisphere setting up locations et cetera that we kind of looked at as some costs are we going to see an improvement in performance on the basis of that this year? Does that kick-in on a noticeable basis this year the ability to win projects on more of a variable basis than a fully move into the country for the first-time basis? Yes we should start seeing that Jim.
The initial investment was to get placed in and at this point now that we have the facilities build out we are – the incremental projects that come along are being bid at sort of the rates that we would expect to recover.
And then as we absorb those costs with additional work again we'll continue to see the improvement in margins.
Part of that Jim is why I think we're so confident that Eastern Hemisphere is going to continue to step-up quarter-over-quarter in its margin realizations because to some extent you are now covering those fixed costs with a wider contract base.
Guys I just think that's a story that people kind of forget that that's one of the drivers.
Okay and second if I could record revenues in the entire Eastern Hemisphere usually if I'm head of Eastern Hemisphere Dave and you ask me what am I going to do this year and me saying I hope customers spend more probably doesn't get me a promotion.
When you're operating at record revenue level in order to increase returns don't you have to at some level take some additional risk? Well I'm not sure what you mean by risk but let me take a shot at this.
I mean obviously our Eastern Hemisphere is doing well and Joe Rainey who heads that up and his management team are doing a fantastic job for us.
I think really to continue to grow Eastern Hemisphere one obviously you have to take what the market gives you.
And we're seeing some sort of modest level increase in rig count there.
So that will help grow the revenue.
You have to win more than your normal market share which I believe we’re doing in terms of tender and contract win rates.
I’m not sure you necessarily have to take higher risks in your contract pricing.
You really have to pick and choose your spots and we have as we said when we responded to the first question we also have a larger footprint in the Eastern Hemisphere now to attack the market off of.
So I don’t necessarily think we have to take risk to continue to grow our Eastern Hemisphere business I think we’re well positioned there.
It’s a contract base.
We have a great footprint we have a great management team and I think that will all drive the revenues higher.
Okay.
Gentlemen thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Brad Handler of Jefferies.
Your line is now open.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Brad.
Maybe I could ask you to as you think about ’14 for us just cut up the business a couple of different ways that you have done so in the past.
How would you look at offshore growth internationally or maybe in the Eastern Hemisphere versus onshore growth? It just -- it sounds like a lot of the opportunities you identified were actually onshore or onshore driven for ’14? I think it’s a healthy mix of both Brad.
The offshore rig count we see that continuing to grow and obviously one of our clear strategies is to outgrow the deepwater market which we expect to do but yes there are number of onshore opportunities as well.
We think about Russia and China and then certainly the Middle East.
So there is a robust onshore market out there.
So I think that they’re evenly weighted and I wouldn’t take one over the other.
I mean when you clearly think about the Gulf of Mexico the Gulf of Mexico should have a good solid growth here on 2014.
Now we did say them at Brazil likely is going to be flat slightly down and that is somewhat of a disappointment and sees 2015 being more of a transition year.
But you step away from Brazil the rest of it -- that offshore market should be good? Yes.
Okay all right.
That’s helpful color.
Asking a similar question but slightly different than your -- as you’ve identified your Brownfield strategy which I know is a multi-year strategy but how does that in your minds grow in ’14 versus more traditional sort of Greenfield drilling and completion work? Well we see the first step out in Mexico.
So as we get into 2014 we see Humapa getting ramped up and so we will see contributions there.
We are selective around these projects as we take them.
We expect to add a few projects per year.
Clearly Humapa being one of those and we have got a number of other sort of things in the works.
So expect that to start contributing this year.
I think let me also sort of respond from a capital investment standpoint.
We are going to be putting more capital in 2014 into our businesses that orient towards the mature fields strategy both the chemicals artificial lift and expanding our footprint there both in North America and around the world and then continue to build out tools and other equipment to support what we see as a coming Brownfield opportunity in North America.
That’s helpful.
If I may within that I think you identified -- within the Brownfield strategy I think you identified a couple of offshore opportunities for example offshore Norway.
Do you see those as progressing? On other words is ICO spending in some meaningful way shifting to production enhancement? Is that generating some incremental opportunity for you as you tender today? Yes we see some of that though I would say it’s probably more focused with the national oil companies than it is the IOC.
So it’s given kind of the type of investment profile I believe that they have.
There are some offshore opportunities but in terms of the kind of consolidated or we manage all of the activities those types of things those are less focused offshore and certainly more focused onshore.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from of Doug Becker of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is now open.
Thanks.
I want to clarify the North American revenue guidance a little bit.
In the press release you mentioned mid single-digit growth in the prepared remarks talking about spending in mid single-digits and that you generally outperform underlying spending.
I just want to reconcile those comments for North American revenue growth? Yes this is Dave.
Let me take that -- let me sort of attack it a couple of ways.
One is that when we look at sort of what our customers are saying about spending in 2014 you sort of settle in the mid single-digit range.
If you look at sort of where we believe the rate count is going which is up a little if you look at well count efficiencies which will be up in sort of the mid maybe upper single-digits and then you can drive revenues sort of off of either of those.
I think the important point is that we believe our revenue because of our position in North America it’s going to exceed whatever the market gives us.
But we have -- all we can do at this point is gauge off what our customers are telling us they’re going to spend and what they say is sort of the mid single-digits.
As I said we will beat that because of our position.
We know the rate count will go up a little.
We know that efficiency is going to be better.
All of that bodes well for us but we’re just trying to give you a number of data points by which you can then plug in your own growth expectations and then just add some on top of that for what you think will do.
So you wouldn’t be balking at say 7% to 9% revenue growth figure? Fair enough.
Another one I appreciate the difficulty in looking at Latin America growth for the full year.
Are you able to give us some perspective of if there is a relief in Brazil if the latest award or expected award actually starts ramping up in the second half.
Are you able to just give some rough gauge about how big a deal those two instances could be for revenue and margins? Yes.
Go ahead.
Yes the -- not calling anything on the first half of the year but if you look at the full year those are meaningful projects in Mexico.
So there is some upside in terms of growth for the full year but we need to see those get started and work being done on those.
But again we will know a lot more about this as we get further into the year.
The way I would probably also add to that is that as I think about the year the revenue growth number is very difficult to pin.
Clearly we talk about Brazil being lower Mexico may have a late ramp in revenues but what it does really make a difference in is for our margins and -- we typically would like to talk about our international margins being in the upper teens and -- but Eastern Hemisphere is clearly on its way.
I see some relief on the cost pressure of Brazil and Mexico activities beginning to solidify going forward.
It gives us the opportunity to get our margins in Latin America back on track with the rest of the international markets and drive up in those upper teens.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from David Anderson of JPMorgan.
Your line is now open.
Thanks good morning.
I was wondering if you can just talk a little bit about the PEMEX mega tender a little bit.
You said it was reduced from 10 down to 8.
I’m just kind of curious what do you think the rationale was? Where those maybe the five ATG projects? I didn’t quite hear you on kind of how you articulated that.
Yes initially there were 10 mega tender projects that were to be tendered.
That number resulted in eight in the end and of those eight the reduction were in the ATG or Northern Mexico projects.
Expectation is that’s on the back of really reform.
The reform in Mexico is going to be net net a very positive event for the service industry.
But over the near-term there is a milestones and things that would appear will slowdown the investment or at least sort of the decisions around some more potentially over the near-term.
So I think that was one of the drivers in terms of a smaller sort of scope overall.
I think the total sort of expectation number there was around $3.5 billion which initially has been expected in the $9 billion to $10 billion kind of range.
Right.
So now were the terms on -- how are the terms end up on these contracts compared to what you’re expecting? It sounds like they were worsen you were thinking.
Is that fair -- because if I heard you right it sounds like you’re really -- you are only expecting to win the Mesozoic contract is that correct? Now that’s correct.
Now the terms were – the terms were consistent with what we expected to see.
I think we were little surprised by some of the pricing that we saw.
I got to think even that there were fewer contracts to go after and there were number of bidders in the bidding for the ATG projects but pricing on those was significantly down and surprisingly down.
And that was just one of those where we’ve -- that was not acceptable pricing for the type of projects that they are.
Got it.
Now that Mesozoic is just correct me if I'm wrong that's essentially the extension of the Alliance 2 project.
So you already have everything mobilized in-country so it's just a question of that cost absorption.
You don't have to ramp up in the country correct? No we don't have to ramp up.
It's not really an extension of the Alliance 2 project but we have the people the kit all of the resources in-country.
We'll need some rigs to work with us.
But outside the rigs we're ready to go.
I think David this is David think of it as we have the resources and people in-country.
It's just that as South Alliance ramps down those people will not have anything to do that resource will not have anything to do for a period of time until the next contracts Humapa and Mesozoic ramp back up.
So rather than do a massive layoff and cost reduction and have to turn around and hire the people straight back we're just going to absorb the costs in the meantime.
So we will not have to add very much incremental costs in terms of where we have been.
It's just a way underutilized resource for a couple of quarter period of time.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Angie Sedita of UBS.
Your line is now opened.
Great.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Angie.
Hi.
So could you talk a little bit about what you're seeing in pressure pumping as far as pricing? Clearly you had contracts that were being renegotiated in Q4 and we're seeing a little bit of that in Q1.
Do you think that pricing could continue to be under pressure into Q2? Have you actually seen an intensification of competition? One of your largest peers mentioned some market share gains so can you talk about what you're seeing in the market? We're seeing continued pricing pressure certainly in the market.
And so as we go into looking at contracts and pricing one of the first things we look at are the customers where we can be the most efficient and execute our value proposition.
But the market is clearly competitive.
I would also add Angie with respect to market share gains it's not coming out of our hide that's for sure.
Yes there is plenty of stacked equipment out there.
There's a bit of flight to quality that goes on in this kind of market and even though pricing is challenged as Jeff has said and there is some market share shift going on it's sure not coming out of ours.
I want to reiterate that the 200 basis points of margin improvement in North America for us is net of pricing.
So while we assume that pricing will continue to be weak for us we're working hard to make sure that that does not influence our margins negatively during the year.
All right.
Yes I assumed as much that your market share would not be affected.
I guess going to that point Mark on the 200 basis point gain in North America.
Is that gain in margin weighted to the back half of the year given your mark for Q1? And are you able to quantify yet of that 200 basis points how much is from internal measures the Battle Red and the Frac of the Future? Well it's not that I can't yet articulate how we're going to get there but I don't know that I want to necessarily for public consumption.
But it is our view that as we go through the year the margins will stair-step higher across 2014.
It's a cumulative 200 basis points of margin addition.
And so we'll realize it as we get into the end of the third quarter which is typically our highest margin quarter.
But it should stair-step higher in Q1 and Q2 as well on a year-over-year basis and sequentially.
Okay.
And then as a unrelated follow-up on the international markets clearly 2013 was pretty impressive where you outpaced your peers on the revenue side and operating income.
And I thought Dave you said you expect to see the same in 2014.
Can you talk about where on a relative basis do you expect to outpace your peers? And is this a combination of market share and new technologies or greater market penetration of some markets? I think Angie it's really all of the above.
I don't want to highlight a certain region or that region all of a sudden gets a big target put on its back.
But I would say generally we're really pleased with where we are in terms of our Eastern Hemisphere market penetration contract win rate introduction of new technology.
So I would just leave it as it's – I'm pretty happy all the way across the board.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from James West of Barclays.
Your line is now opened.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Good morning James.
Dave a bigger picture question for you on North America.
You talked about well efficiencies last year.
I think you said 14% and you're expecting high single-digits this year.
Where do you think we are in this cycle of well efficiencies and how much more do we have to go where the well count can really outpace the rig count et cetera? It seems like we're starting to slow down on that.
I think clearly the low-hanging fruit has been picked.
Right now I don't see any reason why we will not continue to get year-over-year well count efficiencies.
You're starting to see sort of a massive upgrade to the rig fleet that's out there.
The move to pad drilling obviously I think is one of the real drivers we saw last year in terms of the efficiency gains.
But as I mentioned in my remarks the Permian now is switching from what was really a vertical to a horizontal market and there are a lot of rigs running in the Permian right now.
And I think that gives us confidence in driving the numbers for 2014 and even beyond that because let's say the Permian's only at 50% at the end of 2014.
That still leaves a pretty tremendous upside there.
And there's other plays in the U.S.
that are still moving toward more pad more horizontal drilling.
So I think just the nature of the transition of the market the new technologies that not only Halliburton and the other service companies have but the rig contractors are investing more in efficiency.
So I don't really see an end to it at this point in time but I think your big low hanging fruit's been picked at this point.
Okay that's fair.
And perhaps an unrelated follow-up on Brazil.
I understand that you're negotiating with your major customer there about reducing your investment or your cost structure.
What's the timing of when you might have some release on the heavier cost structure than you would have expected given the lack of contract size? James this estimate is very difficult to call at this point in time.
We're working on a range of fronts to try to resolve it talking with the customer and certainly what could be resolution but certainly not in the first half of the year.
We don't expect to see that resolve.
Yes I mean the service industry generally doesn't agree on all things all the time but I can tell you this is one where both us and our peers are all in having the same discussion with Petrobras.
We all really need relief at this point.
Sure.
Okay got it.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Waqar Syed of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is now opened.
Thank you.
I just want to follow-up on James' questions about efficiency.
What are you seeing in terms of efficiency on the pressure pumping side? Where are we in that improvement? It's been – the number of stages per day has been growing in a 24-hour time period.
How do you see that trending in the coming years and where we are in that progress? Waqar we don't see that outpacing the improvement in drilling efficiently at least at this point in time.
So the upshot is there's still more work to be done though we are improving certainly completion efficiency.
The other dynamic in completion efficiency though are what we're doing with the completion.
So reality is we're seeing more stages but we're also seeing bigger stages and we're seeing the ability to do more things around the completion.
So the concern around the completion outpacing the drilling is not necessarily a concern for us.
Okay.
And then just one clarification.
I just want to clarify did you say that the margins in North America are likely to be higher or flat in the first quarter versus fourth quarter? We expect to see those modestly higher… Very modest.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Bill Herbert of Simmons &amp; Company.
Your line is now opened.
Thanks.
Good morning.
With regard to your North America guidance in the first quarter did I understand the flat prophecy for the quarter? Was that inclusive of an outlook for severe weather in the first quarter or did that exclude the prospect of weather in Q1? Yes that describe -- we described to you before as high stage count at the beginning of the quarter and then trailed off with the holidays and then a bit of the slow start to some key markets in January due to weather.
But what we see is we call out of that is sort of an inverse in Q4.
So I call those -- for those reasons about flat.
Yes it is inclusive of weather.
It’s just sort of assuming sort of a similar weather pattern to what we had in Q4.
Okay.
And then secondly did I hear you correctly Mark with regard to your Latin American margin roadmap for the second half of the year that we hoped to be in the upper teens realm in line with your other international margins by the second half or in the second half? Well hope it’s a -- yes that’s a strong word.
Okay.
I mean that’s where I hope but I -- right now I just have no ability to forecast thus getting there right now given what we know on the revenue side.
And the cost side where we’ve talked -- we’ve described that we’re having to carry a significant amount of cost.
We don’t have any relief for that cost right now and so we got to get that relief in order to sort of build the roadmap to get back to those upper teen.
So yes that is our hope that certainly what we’re going to continue to drive internally but at this -- I don’t have it on our forecast right now just because of the uncertainty around cost recovery.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And at this time I’d like to turn the call back to management for any closing comments.
Thank you Sam.
On behalf of Halliburton management team I just want to thank everyone for your participation.
And Sam you can go ahead and close the call.
Thank you sir.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This does conclude today’s program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
And welcome to the Halliburton First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today’s conference Kelly Youngblood.
Sir you may begin.
Good morning.
And welcome to the Halliburton's first quarter 2014 conference call.
Today’s call is being webcast and a replay will be available on Halliburton's website for seven days.
The press release announcing the first quarter results is also available on the Halliburton website.
Joining me today are Dave Lesar CEO; Mark McCollum CFO; and Jeff Miller COO.
I would like to remind our audience that some of today’s comments may include forward-looking statements reflecting Halliburton's views about future events and their potential impact on our performance.
These matters involve risk and uncertainties that could impact operations and financial results and cause our actual results to materially differ from our forward-looking statements.
These risks are discussed in Halliburton's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2013 recent current reports on Form 8-K and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
Our comments today include non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in our first quarter press release which as I have mentioned can be found on our website.
In our discussion today we will be excluding the impact of an increase to our reserve related to the Macondo litigation that was taken in the first quarter of 2013 unless otherwise noted.
We will welcome questions after we complete our prepared remarks.
We ask that you please limit yourself to one question and one related follow-up to allow more time for others who have questions.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Dave.
Dave? Thank you Kelly and good morning everyone.
We are going to change up our format this quarter to more effectively communicate the items you've told us you want to hear.
I will provide the highlights then Mark will add the financial details that will be followed by Jeff who will give the operations and technology update.
So here are my highlights for our first quarter.
Results played out about as expected that the earnings mix was a bit different.
We had record first quarter total company revenue of $7.3 billion and operating income increased 8% over the first quarter of 2013 as a result of double-digit growth in the Eastern Hemisphere.
Now let’s do our outlook by key geographies.
Eastern Hemisphere activity continues to expand at a steady rate and is playing out about as expected.
Our forecast for the full year remains unchanged.
We see customer spending levels increasing by the upper single digits and our revenue growth to be in the low double digits and we still expect average full-year Eastern Hemisphere margins in the upper teens.
Latin America came in slightly better than we projected but we continue to believe that 2014 will be a transitional year.
For the full year we expect Latin America revenue and profit to be in line with 2013 levels.
Longer term we are very optimistic about our position in Latin America and the future growth potential of this market.
As Jeff will discuss we were successful in winning over $3 billion in IPM contracts in Mexico during 2013 and the constitutional changes in Mexico seem to be progressing as planned and we believe the opportunity for foreign investment to come into this market will be very beneficial to our businesses beginning as early as 2015.
Turning to North America as you know I went through a number of turns in the market and let me tell you I'm starting to feel the turn.
I'm starting to feel the momentum swing not only that I'm starting to see it happen.
I’m more excited about North America now than I have been since late 2011.
Now I could be off by a quarter or so but I do not believe I am wrong about this turn happening.
Now why is that? First the sense of confidence I get when I talk to customers and the sense of confidence they have in their own business prospects.
Supportive commodity prices today are translating into stronger cash flow than OpEx budgets for our customers and despite the logistical issues we saw in the first quarter during March we saw record levels of revenues.
Completions intensity is rising lateral links are increasing stage counts are rising and the average well volume pumped has increased over 30% just since last year and due to natural attrition demand growth in the Permian we believe that excess frac capacity has tightened much faster than expected.
And we don't think we'll have any problem filling our frac calendar through the end of the year and believe we will be able to pull-through additional product lines.
So how will this play out? First we will drive efficiency leverage from our low-cost operating model.
Second we will gain incremental revenue from our customer base due to increase job sizes.
And thirdly as a result of tightening supply of equipment we can offset increases in input cost through reimbursement from our customers.
And think about it all of that comes without any help from the natural gas market.
So while the first quarter margins were impacted by weather and logistical issues this will dissipate and North American margins should rebound to second half 2013 levels in the second quarter and we continue to expect North America margins will approach 20% before the end of the year.
Based on our continued confidence in our business prospects we bought back an additional $500 million in shares during the first quarter.
We still have $1.2 billion remaining in repurchase authorizations.
Along with the buybacks we executed last year we repurchased about 11% of the company since this time last year well also raising our quarterly dividend by 67%.
Now I’m going to turn the call over to Mark to provide financial details but before I do I want to point out that as you work through Mark's financial commentary you will see projected earnings per share growth of approximately 25% from Q1 to Q2 and even more increases after that.
That is why I am so confident we can continue to deliver industry-leading growth margins and returns and continue to return significant cash to our shareholders.
Mark? Thanks Dave and good morning everyone.
Let me begin with an overview of our first quarter results.
In the Eastern Hemisphere revenue and operating income increased by 11% and 16% respectively as a result of year-over-year growth in both the Middle East/Asia and Europe Africa CIS regions.
Sequentially we experienced a typical decline in revenue and margins during the first quarter due to the absence of seasonally higher year end software and product sales as well as the normal first quarter weather-related weakness in the North Sea Russia and Australia.
In the Middle East/Asia region both revenue and operating income increased by 13% compared to the prior year.
Middle East/Asia is projected to be our highest growth region this year led by Saudi Arabia.
In the first quarter Saudi Arabia grew by almost 50% compared to the first quarter of 2013 which clearly demonstrates the success we’ve had in expanding our integrated project capability and our ability to leverage our unconventional leadership and expertise outside of North America.
But the improvement was also driven by solid growth across the majority of our Asia-Pacific countries with Thailand Malaysia and Indonesia leading the Pac.
Turning to Europe Africa CIS we saw revenue and operating income increased 9% and 21% respectively on year-over-year basis.
This improvement was led by higher completion tools sales and increased drilling and open-hole wireline activity in Angola.
We also posted increased activity in the United Kingdom the Netherlands and Algeria.
Latin America revenue and operating income declined by 9% and 8% respectively compared to the same quarter last year in large part due to a decline in drilling-related activity in Brazil.
Increased unconventional stimulation and cementing activity in Argentina partially offset this decline.
We also continued to be impacted by an activity reduction in Mexico related to the cessation of older contracts in anticipation of new integrated projects awarded late last year and early this year.
We are currently mobilizing for our Humapa and Mesozoic projects and they should get underway in the second and third quarters.
Moving to North America.
Revenues were up 5% year-over-year relative to a 1% increase in the U.S.
land rig count and operating income was flat.
This was a challenging quarter for our North America business.
We experienced the coldest winter in 20 years which impacted activity in the Bakken Niobrara Marcellus and other operating areas including Canada during the early part of the quarter.
Severe weather also disrupted rail movements further reducing efficiency.
Pricing contributed lower margins in the quarter as a result of pressure pumping contract renewals that went into effect late in the fourth quarter or early this year.
Additionally we saw rising cost in certain expense categories such as freight and fuel.
Our corporate and other expense totaled $89 million this quarter.
We invested approximately $15 million in our HALvantage strategic initiatives during the first quarter a bit lower than we expected.
These activities will continue throughout 2014 but the related cost should begin to decline in the second half of the year.
We anticipate the impact of these investments will be approximately $0.02 per share after tax in the second quarter.
Including these strategic costs we anticipate that corporate expenses for the second quarter were run approximately $95 million to $100 million.
Our effective tax rate for the first quarter also came in slightly lower than expected at approximately 27% due to a tax-basis adjustment.
For the remainder of 2014 we’re expecting the effective tax rate to be approximately 28% to 29%.
Cash flow from operations during the first quarter was $934 million nearly triple the cash flow from the first quarter of 2013.
Adjusting for the $500 million in stock repurchases we generated approximately $300 million in cash during the quarter.
As we progressed through 2014 we believe we are well positioned to generate significantly more cash and then our cash flow will grow sustainably in the coming years.
As a reminder we’re working to grow the percentage of cash available for distribution to shareholders up to roughly 35% of our operating cash flows over the next few years which has nearly doubled our historic average.
For the second quarter we expect our average share count will be approximately 850 million.
We continue to expect that our capital expenditures for 2014 will be approximately $3 billion.
We also expect depreciation and amortization to be approximately $2.1 billion during 2014.
Now moving to the eastern hemisphere outlook.
In the second quarter we’re anticipating a low double-digit percentage improvement in revenue as we recover from the first quarter seasonal drop-off and we expect margins to move solidly into the midteens.
Over the course of the year revenue and margin should continue to progressively stairstep higher with full year margins averaging in the upper teens.
In Latin America we expect for Brazil to be a headwind for the remainder of this year an average of 24 rigs we’re drilling during the first quarter and activity is expected to remain at this reduced level for the rest of 2014 and into 2015.
However IPM activity is beginning to pick up in Mexico to offset the Brazil slowdown.
For the second quarter we expect a higher single-digit percentage improvement in revenue in Latin America.
We believe margins will only be modestly higher than the first quarter due not only to lower Brazil activity but also to project mobilization cost in Mexico.
We expect a more meaningful step up in revenues and margins in the second half of the year.
We should bring full year revenue and margins in line with 2013.
Concluding with North America in the second quarter we’re expecting higher U.S.
land activity to more than offset the seasonal Canadian spring breakup.
The logistics issues we experienced in the first quarter should also abate and we will yield more benefit from our HALvantage initiatives.
The net result is that we should see a low to mid-single digit percentage improvement in North America revenue in the second quarter and margins will return to second half 2013 levels.
And as Dave commented earlier we fully expect North America margins will approach 20% before year end.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Jeff for an operational update.
Jeff? Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
As you’ve heard we’re excited about the North America market.
We’re confident that we’re going to hit our eastern hemisphere growth expectations.
The key point that I want to make today is that our strategies from unconventionals deepwater and mature fields are working well.
Our unconventional strategy continues to focus on driving a lower cost per BOE for our customers.
Our discussions with operators about their unconventional assets today are almost entirely centered around how to make more barrels and our strategy is dead focused on just that.
Using frac of the future CYPHER and Custom Chemistry we’ve consistently demonstrated that we can help operators get more barrels and improve their efficiency.
As Dave said we’re seeing rising servicing intensity across North America and this underscores the importance of our unconventional strategy.
Lateral lengths have grown to over 10 000 feet in the market.
Stage density has increased by 20% to 25% year-over-year in basins like the Eagle Ford and the Marcellus.
And in the Permian basin the horizontal rig count has crossed over the 50% mark and you know this is great for us.
The net result is that year-over-year we’ve seen average completion volumes per well increase by 30% for our customer set which is driving demand for improved service efficiency at the wellhead.
The frac of the future is delivering the increased efficiency we expected reducing maintenance headcount and the capital required on location.
At the end of the first quarter over 20% of our fleet has been converted to frac of the future.
And we have largely completed the HALvantage rollout across our U.S.
land operations.
And CYPHER is making a difference in helping our customers increased their EURs telling them where to drill how to grill quarter where to complete and how to complete.
CYPHER is now gaining traction internationally as well as we deploy the platform to projects in Saudi Arabia Russia Argentina and Australia.
When it comes to how to complete the goal is maximum reservoir contact.
And this is where our customized chemistry is generating results.
One example is AccessFrac.
AccessFrac is the system that combines leading-edge unconventional hydraulic fracturing techniques with proprietary diversion chemistry.
And the result is substantially better multi-zone completions during plug-and-perf operations.
AccessFrac has been used in thousands of stages in every major U.S.
basin and in a number of emerging international plays as well.
Through successful application our customers are seeing a production improvement on the order of 20% to 30%.
Moving to deepwater.
Our outlook has always been one of steady growth which is precisely what we're seeing play out and our strategy to reduce uncertainty and increase reliability is more important to our clients than ever.
As we think about our deepwater strategy reducing uncertainty for our clients shortens their cycle time and improves their decision making.
Our ICE Core fluid analysis technology does exactly that.
It performs lab quality fluid analysis down hole using spectroscopy and proprietary algorithms.
Now this is important to our clients because one logging run can potentially save an operator costly weeks waiting on lab results.
Instead oil gas water and other fluid composition can be determined during testing operations.
And not surprisingly this unique Halliburton technology is really gaining traction and is gaining traction in every deepwater market in the world.
It’s been successfully run in the North Sea Latin America West Africa and Asia Pacific.
We’re also reducing uncertainty with our subsalt reservoir characterization software GeoShell.
GeoShell is part of our leading DecisionSpace 3D Seismic Interpretation software.
And it allows our clients do better image salt structures and then therefore map the subsurface more accurately.
We’re gaining traction in markets like the deepwater Gulf of Mexico where a large customer is now using GeoShell to improve technical success and reduce exploratory drilling risk.
Next I'm very excited about the pipeline of projects that we see in mature fields.
Our discussions with clients are increasingly focused on how to improve mature field production.
And these assets are a terrific annuity for our customers whether they may be simple workover or a fulfilled optimization project.
And as evidenced of increasing demand we have over 6 billion in awarded integrated projects and over 25 billion in projects in the perceived pipeline primarily in mature assets.
In Mexico we have two significant integrated mature field mobilizations underway the Humapa project in the north and the Mesozoic project in the south.
And we expect Humapa to be generating revenue in the second quarter.
And with Mesozoic we are currently preparing the rigs required to deliver these high pressure wells and expect to spud the first well late in the second quarter.
This four year project is the largest of the recent mega tender awards and represents over 20% of the recent $4 billion tender round.
We expect to be operating at a full run rate in early 2015.
And there are two takeaways here.
First we have built the organizational capability to successfully execute large mature field projects.
We have aggressively developed the reservoir skills to increase recovery factors for our customers at a field wide level and have built the service portfolio required to drill complete and produce mature fields.
And second we're more constructive on Mexico than at the end of last year.
And in spite of any near-term transition it’s clear that the future activity in Mexico is taking shape.
In closing our strategies are working and working well in mature fields deepwater and unconventionals and we are more confident than ever that we are on track to deliver on our commitments.
Now I'll turn the call back over to Dave for his closing comments.
Dave? Thanks Jeff and let me just do a quick wrap up.
In summary Eastern Hemisphere is playing out as we said it would.
And based on our contract pipeline we are confident in our estimates.
Latin America will be a transitional year but our project wins in Mexico set us up for a stronger second half and an improved 2015.
And as I said in North America I can feel and I can see the turn coming which gives us confidence in our outlook for the year.
Overall our strategy is working well and we intend to stay the course.
I am optimistic about our ability to grow our North America revenue and margins realize industry-leading revenue and margin growth in our international businesses which will result in EPS growth and significantly higher cash generation.
We remain focused on consistent execution generating superior financial performance and providing industry-leading shareholder returns.
Thank you.
Okay.
Sam we are ready to open up the questions now.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from James West of Barclays.
Your line is now opened.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
Hey James.
Thanks.
It’s good to hear your confidence on North America and we were certainly aligned with you there.
One quick question on NAM if we think about Dave you mentioned you are getting reimbursables for higher cost are you also at the point now or getting close to the point where you can get net pricing on the product lines that have been somewhat out of balance here?  Yeah James.
This is Jeff.
First thing with respect to pricing we are not going to discuss our pricing strategy.
But if you go back to what Dave said we have seen some capacity tightening and the ability to pass on some of the increased prices to customers but the point being from our standpoint we stay focused on returns.
Okay.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And then Jeff or Dave you mentioned a lot of confidence comes from everything outside of the gas markets.
What are you seeing in gas markets today given where gas prices sit and where gas prices could go given the tightness in the gas market? Yeah we like -- the short answer is gas.
We don’t have it in the plan for 2014.
Right.
We view sustainable prices north of $450 would be what’s required to see gas move but we are seeing it support probably cash flows for some clients.
But if anything the key takeaway is it would be a 2015 event.
Okay.
Okay.
Great.
I got it.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from David Anderson of J.P.
Morgan.
Your line is now opened.
Thanks.
Good morning.
So I just had a question on the pressure pumping pricing comments.
Obviously you guys are pretty fired up.
Help us understand kind of how you see this playing out.
It sounds like there should be a couple more quarters of seeing contract rollovers kind of pushing pricing down.
I was wondering if you could give us little more context as to what you are seeing out there.
Is this primarily in the Permian that things are kind of changing around but just a little bit of more color in terms of how that should play out this year? But we don’t see -- we don’t see pricing pushing down we described.
What we’ve described is contract rollovers through Q4 taking affect now having pricing affect.
What I will just reiterate is that we stay focused on returns for our business.
The ability to push through the pricing for inputs has been a bit of what we’ve seen.
But the vagaries of the tightening it’s tough to call that at this point.
We have seen some tightening.
Okay.
Dave I was just curios on your comments you talked about kind of seeing the beginnings of another upswing here.
You’ve been here before.
I was just wondering if you could kind of maybe give us little color in terms of how you are approaching this cycle different from the past.
Obviously if you are seeing if I would have to think some of your smaller competitors are starting to get fired up as well? Are you concerned about capacity coming to the market? Do you start building capacity little bit sooner? I’m just curios can you help us understand little bit how do you approach this cycle different without obviously giving away the secret sauce and what not? I think Dave first of all I do feel the turn coming but I want to see it get here first.
When it gets here we will be making those kinds of decisions.
I think a couple things to keep in mind.
One is we will continue to high-grade our customer base as we go through this process working with the ones that want to work with us to basically get the efficiencies that we need the rate of returns that we need.
We are going to continue to rollout the Q10s as we said at our Analyst Day.
We believe it’s a differentiating platform to go to market with and we’ll just sort of analyze the market as it comes to us and make those decisions at that point in time.
I’m certainly not going to give away our strategy at this point.
But I think we're pretty well down the road in thinking about what we're going to do.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Bill Herbert of Simmons &amp; Company.
Your line is now opened.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I was a little bit unclear with regard to your commentary on the earnings growth and vision for the second half of the year following the 25% upswing in the second quarter.
Did you call for an additional 25% increase in EPS sequentially in Q3? Bill this is Mark.
We did not call for 25% sequential from Q2 to Q3.
I think what Dave was alluding to is that if you just translate the notion of getting us back to a 20% margins in North America as the year progresses….
Yes.
…as well as the continued strong growth double-digit growth that we expect in our international or our Eastern Hemisphere markets that’s going to continue to add to what we think is going to be a good solid Q2 for us coming off of a Q1 seasonal level.
Understood.
And then secondly in light of the increased service intensity that you're seeing in the business and the increase vigor with regard to the overall business can you comment a little bit on your capital spending intensity overall? I mean we’ve gone from call it a low to mid-teens capital spend rate as a percentage of revenues the high single digits? And I’m just curious given the runway that you see now.
Your restraint with regard to adding horsepower for a considerable period of time your rollout of frac in the future how is that all interwoven into your capital spending intensity your capital allocation with regard to new horsepower going forward?  It's a great question Bill.
And one of the things that we are as Dave alluded to yes we think about our strategy for looking at North America where we’re keenly focused on.
Clearly several years ago we accelerated our capital bit quite dramatically anticipating a fairly dramatic turn in North America coming off the bottom of the financial crisis and then seeing the growth opportunities that were available to us in international markets.
We felt like that that was a season of time overall because of our focus on returns.
We wanted to get back our spending back down to something that was a more reasonable growth rate and really focus the business on capital utilization asset turnover and return to our sort of an ultimate focus on returns.
As we look at this market today and what maybe happening I would tell you while we’re still expecting capital expenditures to be $3 billion I mean that’s -- I mean I’ve got a lot of them through sort of keeping a tight grip on the rains in terms of what the opportunity set is out there for the growth of our business.
I mean there is a lot of things that we can do we’re just -- we’re going to try to maintain that focus on return.
So remember one of the things that we also have available to us as we do the rollout of Q10s and we’re bringing equipment out of the market itself for reclamation or repositioning into international markets is in essence gives us some opportunity to sort of spread our assets improve our utilization overall that maybe some other businesses don’t have within the capital budget.
Thanks very much.
That’s helpful.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Angie Sedita of UBS.
Your line is now open.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Hi Angie.
I thought it was interesting your comments first on that you’re seeing frac capacity tighten faster than expected which you would expect to some degree but can you give us your thoughts on where the markets frac capacity or frac utilization is today? And then thoughts towards the exit rate at the end of the year given we still are seeing frac efficiencies moderate activity growth clearly and some capacity additions and where we could be on a frac capacity or utilization frac at the end of the year? Hi Angie this is Jeff.
Certainly as we look out we’re seeing some tightening but what I would say about broadly capacity is that I don’t have any reason to disagree with some of the numbers that you saw last week.
So that be.
Okay.
So let’s move to Latin America then; on Mexico your comments certainly were a little bit more positive on the opening of the country and that you could see something as early as 2015 what do you think what are you hearing that gives you more confidence and more confidence on that timing? Yes.
Couple of things.
First is the country is making a lot of the right moves.
So as we see the reforms sort of taking shape clearly they are -- I am impressed and pleased to see the schedule sort of keeping pace.
Equally important as we see the contract opportunities in the market that works being lit being tendered and won which gives me confidence that the base activity though we see the transitory sort of slow down in the contracts that were in place.
We also see the path to the contracts that are going to take their place.
Okay.
And then finally the Q10 pumps based on your remarks it does appear -- it does sound as if you are not making net additions to your horsepower in the U.S.
is that fair that you are still actually adding capacity on the Q10 side but retiring or refurbishing all the capacity? I mean right now we are sticking to our same policy.
We are not going to comment on our overall capacity additions just for competitive reasons.
Okay.
I will turn it over.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jim Wicklund of Credit Suisse.
Your line is now open.
Hey Jim.
Jim please shut your mute button.
We will move on to our next question our next question comes from Kurt Hallead of RBC Capital Markets.
Hey good morning.
Hi Kurt.
I just had a follow-up question.
Your forecasting guidance I think speaks to this but there have been significant investor concerns about the deepwater drilling market and potential utilization declines in conjunction with the prospect for lower international oil company E&amp;P spending dynamics throughout the course of the year.
I know again given the context of your forecast whether or not you can give us some view on IOC spend plans maybe versus NOC or independents and how you see this rolling up into your forecast? Thanks Kurt.
We’ve always called the growth in that market as sort of slow and steady and it’s staying on the pace that we’ve sort of described all along.
I won’t comment necessarily on the deepwater drillers but our view and their view maybe a little bit different around that growth pace.
We feel confident about what business that we see sort of over the near term and then clearly contracts that are being left appear to be going to work.
So I am confident that from our standpoint our outlook is still intact and our commitment to outgrow that market by 25% stays intact.
Okay great.
And just follow-up I had commentary about the North American market capacity tightening and maybe more quickly than anticipated.
What do you see is the potential impact on a global standpoint from pricing because typically when North America get tight it’s pretty good opportunity to improve pricing on the international front as well and any sense on that prospect as we head out into the rest of 2014? Well I think as we -- sort of our experience in the last up-cycle following the financial crisis that potential connection doesn’t always work.
We continue to believe that while there are pockets of opportunity to -- or maybe to adjust our pricing with contracts awarded for specific product service lines the large mega tenders that come out continue to be very very competitive.
And we don’t anticipate that necessarily changing in a slow and steady growth market over time regardless of what happens in the North American market in the short term.
Okay thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jeff Tillery of Tudor Pickering.
Your line is now open.
Hi good morning.
Hey Jeff.
Given some of the volume increases you talked about in North America sort of 30% on a per well basis in your customer mix can you just talk about the challenges that brings and what you are doing to address it whether it’d be sand water or kind of whatever else on the logistics side? Yes thanks Jeff.
The increased volumes put a lot of -- not pressure but gives us an opportunity really to use our logistics and infrastructure that we put in place over the last several years.
But clearly the ability to deliver the large volumes is crucial to our business and we do that through managing that delivery really from the beginning to the end from the mine to the well side and it’s -- so the takeaway is yes we manage it and yes we see it as a key component of our advantage.
And the second quarter in North America so seasonally Canada obviously takes a step backward but could you comment on weather risk and how you see it in kind of northern part of the U.S.
whether it be the Bakken breakup or what not just curious how you see that playing out at this point? Yes the Canada breakup is always an impact.
There is no -- that’s always part of the outlook but in our case that is part of our outlook that’s included in the commitments that we made for next quarter and then beyond in North America.
So we continue to be positive on that and really the takeaway equipment works harder in the lower 48 than it does in Canada just given that impact to breakup.
Any thoughts on the Bakken and just given coming off the very cold weather do we need to expect very I mean a normal seasonal impact better or worse I mean any thoughts around the Bakken this quarter? Yeah.
I mean Bakken I think is back to work.
So I mean it works it’s way through breakup and don’t have any reason to believe that it’s impacted any differently and it was extremely cold winter but that market knows how to rebound.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jim Wicklund of Credit Suisse.
Your line is now open.
Sorry guys I’m obviously technically challenged on Monday morning.
We already knew that.
Yeah.
That's no surprise no surprise.
Let me talk about sustainability if I could? Its great picture excited about the North American market a lot of people saying don’t forget there was price fixing litigation last year.
So it’s good that you can be excited but we understand why you can’t talk details so that's fine? But it just strikes me and Jeff your comments about natural gas but we all kind of know that volumes have to increase overtime? And I am just wondering how do you guys view the sustainability of growth in the North American market? And I would think that you get paid on volume as much as what gas price is but Dave to your point you are not increasing volumes much maybe that's not the case? But can you talk about the broader five-year outlook for North American activity the sustainability part of it? Yeah.
Thanks Jim.
I mean a lot of the if we look out five years a lot of the structural things in my view are happening that that support the sustainable gas market.
If we look at LNG export clearly a positive and its moving the right way if we look at sort of the uptake on gas and its positioning in the market as long-term fuel for electricity and then we look at sort of the economy and the upside in this economy all of those conspire to in my view a sustainable gas market.
And should we expect to see I mean I am looking at the consensus numbers for you guys and your biggest competitors and 8% to 10% revenue growth seems to be sustainable at least through consensus? Is that -- I don’t want to -- you guys are saying the business is no longer cyclical? But to Dave to your point is this the momentum leading into a two-year cycle or a five-year cycle or do you all have a thought on that? Yeah.
Jim I mean its clearly in my view more than a two-year cycle because as I indicated earlier we are not getting any help from gas essentially at this point in time.
And I have a view on gas I happen to believe that over the next five to 10 years the gas market is going to be there and potentially be there in a big way.
Have you went outside and the [call] (ph) probably has their own view as to whether I am right or wrong there.
But I think that what we are trying to indicate is that if you just look at the liquid side of the business right now that's actually what’s giving us our excitement.
And so is it sustainable yes.
Duration yeah it is still a cyclical business but I clearly think that we are looking at something that is going to be turning up for more than two years.
Okay.
And my follow up if I could.
On the mature fields into the business you guys have mentioned several times that you probably have to make some acquisitions to get to where your guidance at your Analyst Meeting was and obviously those are around pumps of all different kinds and chemistry of all different kinds? Should we expect to see some continuing level of M&amp;A over the next couple years since or could it come in big burst? I am just trying to think of not who you would buy or what you would buy but how you would go about doing it over the next couple years? Well I think the honest answer is why we would always love to do some big bites.
It takes two to tango right.
You’ve got to have those opportunities in front of you and in the absence those opportunities the way I described our M&amp;A strategy as we play small ball right.
You are going to that's ultimately can win the game and so we are out there constantly keeping our M&amp;A pipeline full of prospects that address the strategic technologies and niches that we want to feel and keep a constant dialogue.
Now all of those will come to fruition but enough of those you know along the way are filling up the prospects that can ultimately get us there.
We would love to have some bigger deals.
We have the balance sheet.
We think we have the management team the ability to integrate in a way that can make that very successful but those have been few and far between.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Appreciate it.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jim Crandell of Cowen.
Your line is now open.
Thank you.
Mark are they any chances of any adjustments to your Brazilian contracts and if the answer to that is no when do you expect them to be re-bid and when might that take effect? Yeah.
Thanks Jim.
This is Jeff.
The answer to question well I am not going to comment on the specific discussions with the client but I am confident that we work through those during the current year.
So as we -- some point this year we will see some relief there and certainly going into ’15 it would look different.
Okay.
Secondly another question about South American country are you seeing or have any seen any improvement in your receivable situation from PdVSA and have you at all curtailed shipments of product or services to PdVSA because of that? We saw a significant improvement in our receivable position at the end of the fourth quarter.
This quarter it didn’t necessarily improve but I think that was driven probably more by an expansion of our operation there in Venezuela versus lack of payment but still is slower than we would like it to be.
We continue to work with our customer there.
They are trying to find an arrangement that’s mutually beneficial.
But I think that at this point in time we’ll take a long-term view of Venezuela.
We’ll continue to be constructive about that market think it can work for us and we’re continuing to invest and operate there to help them achieve their goals.
Okay good Mark.
And one final question about two categories of companies and how you see sort of this category of E&amp;P spending one is the majors we’ve -- I mean the majors budgets if you add them up are actually slightly lower in 2014 versus ‘13 and they make up about 26% of spending.
And then we are also seeing at least in the budgets a significant slowdown coming out of Asia Pacific companies particularly the NOCs out of China India Malaysia Indonesia.
When do you expect that this condition is going to change and if so when do you think it could change? So challenging question your second part is when it necessarily will change? Again I think that our overall view of the market has been slow and steady.
And we have supported commodity prices ultimately when things will change will really relate to the supply and demand balance.
Right now there everything seems to be well and balance and I think as the economic macroeconomic indicators improve globally demand will grow then the need for supply will start growing and I think accelerate activity.
The first part of the question on IOC and IOC is the part of our overall portfolio.
They are an important part but they’re less than 25% as a percentage of our total revenues.
I mean we -- and I would also say that even though their relative budgets have stayed flat what we see internally that they’ve adjusted some of that spending toward E&amp;P and away from infrastructure this year.
So the overall budget totals that they get may not be necessarily indicative of what we see them spending.
And we expect that particularly in areas like the Gulf of Mexico that spending will be creeping up as the year goes -- goes by.
Okay.
Thank you Mark.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Doug Becker of Bank of America.
Your line is now open.
Thanks.
I will stick with Latin America.
Mark you’ve mentioned expectations for slightly higher margins in 2Q versus 1Q pretty flat for the full year.
What assumptions are you making regarding work in Brazil and the signing of the blanket contract with PEMEX in that guidance? And maybe if you could help us think about the range of outcomes in terms of margins related to those factors? Okay.
Just sort of I guess to reiterate the guidance we are expecting that revenues will be slightly up but that margins will be flat in Q2 but that they will be increasing over the rest of the year so that when you look at the total 2013 -- I'm sorry 2014 year it will be on balance the same as 2013 was both from a revenue standpoint and margin standpoint.
So that's the overall guidance.
So that anticipates a higher margin in the back part of the year than we’re currently experiencing.
The forecast that I gave you for Q2 on the blanket contract assumes Q2 more but probably later in the quarter versus earlier.
And so it’s large impact will be back half of the year versus for Q2.
Okay.
And with relates -- as it relates to Brazil just that the contracts stays in place as is is that their underlying assumption? Yes it is.
We have not anticipated any kind of contract reform in Brazil over the course of the year.
So if something happens there earlier than toward the end of the year than that would be beneficial for us.
Got it.
And then Dave you did mentioned that March saw record revenues in North America.
Can we get any sense for just how much better March was whether its in terms of revenue profitability compared to January and February? Yeah this is Jeff.
I mean there was a solid exit rates and on the basis of that we feel confident about the forecast we’ve laid out for you and also see the path to the commitment that we’ve made for 2014 which was adding the 200 basis points in North America.
Maybe another way of approaching it just any quantification of what the weather impact was in North American margins in the first quarter? Maybe to help when we gave our guidance at the end of the first quarter -- fourth quarter about what would happen in Q1.
We highlighted that we expected that there would be some pricing degradation that we had to fight against because of contract rollover as well as weather.
And I think that some of the pricing was basically anticipated but I think that the weather and the knock-on impacts of the weather and logistic impacts and stuff like that were not anticipated to be as bad as they were.
And so that’s probably and I guess as much as I want to give but again looking at March exit rates they were very strong very solid and that gives us high confidence for not only just Q2 but the rest of the year.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Waqar Syed of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is now opened.
Thank you very much.
My question relates to the Middle East.
As we look at the margins in the Middle East in the first quarter versus last year's first quarter they are relatively flat.
Could you talk about that given what's going on in Saudi Arabia and UAE like I would have expected the margins to be year-over-year much better? Is there anything special going on there is it all Iraq or equipment relocation that's impacting first quarter? Yeah.
Thanks Waqar.
The Middle East growth is solid.
But don’t forget we have won a number of projects in the Middle East then we’re mobilizing for those including in Saudi Arabia.
And so what you’re seeing is some of the sorting out of that activity.
That said the takeaway is we are very confident about the business in the Middle East and expect to see strengthening there.
Okay.
Could we -- where could the margins in the Middle East head to? I know you've given guidance for all of Eastern Hemisphere.
But just looking at Middle East on its own any guidance in terms of revenues and margins for not just 2014 maybe longer term as well? Waqar we are not going to provide any guidance specifically on the Middle East.
Middle East/Asia is our reportable region.
If you look at it it tends to be have higher margins and we anticipate it will have higher growth than the average of Eastern Hemisphere overall but otherwise we are going to stay with our Eastern Hemisphere guidance.
Okay.
We’ve heard from some of your peers saying that like rig count growth could be 17% 18% in the Middle East area.
Is that your thinking as well? We have no reason to dispute their estimates on rig count growth as well.
Okay.
And just one finally on the labor we hear that labor is pretty tight not just in Permian but other places too.
Do you see that having any impact on work or the industry’s ability to perform work this year? No.
I mean this is really where we’ve build the machine.
It’s able to hire people.
We know how to do that.
We’ve seen this sort of tightness in labor before.
So we may see some increased costs but the ability to execute and deliver the people I’m quite confident that we will do that.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Sam I think we have time for one more question.
Yes sir.
Our final question comes from Scott Gruber of Sanford Bernstein.
Your line is now opened.
Thanks for squeezing me in.
Dave or Jeff have you started to see a turn in the appetite for shale technology particularly by the domestic E&amp;Ps? Just from a 20 000 foot level it appears that the domestic industry is just running so hard right now that customers are simply demanding more and more of the conventional services.
But obviously you have a much more detailed perspective than we do so wanted to see if you're starting to sense a turn in that mentality? Yeah.
This is Jeff.
There is a strong appetite for better technology and that’s really the crux for most of the conversations I have with customers today is around how to make more barrels and what technology will allow them to do that.
And that's really what our CYPHER suite is all about is how to frac and how to drill to make more barrels.
And so that’s where we’re seeing that increase in appetite so.
And that’s really across the piece.
So the takeaway is yes there is more activity but every application of better technology in that higher volume environment is able to even make create more value for our customers.
And do you think that's a product of where we stand with the evolution of shale more in the development phase today? Is it a product of the tightness -- emerging tightness for people and equipment if you can comment on any change in your sales strategy and whether that's having an impact as well?  Well let me comment on this place.
We are in the cycle and clearly as the client goes into development there is such a premium on making more barrels out of that existing asset that I think that’s driving some of that appetite.
I won't comment on our sales strategy necessarily other than to say we really like the suite of tools that we have in the marketplace right now and the benefit that it’s delivering for our customers.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And at this time I’d like to turn the call back to management for any closing comments.
Okay Sam.
I think we’re ready to close the call.
I just want to thank everybody on behalf of the management team for participating today.
You can go ahead and close the call.
Thank you sir.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today’s conference.
This does conclude today’s program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
And welcome to the Halliburton Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today’s conference Kelly Youngblood.
Sir you may begin.
Good morning.
And welcome to the Halliburton's second quarter 2014 conference call.
Today’s call is being webcast and a replay would be available on Halliburton's Web site for seven days.
Joining me today are Dave Lesar CEO; Mark McCollum CFO; and Jeff Miller COO.
Some of our comments today may include forward-looking statements reflecting Halliburton's views about future events.
These matters involve risk and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to materially differ from our forward-looking statements.
These risks are discussed in Halliburton’s Forms 10K for the year ended December 31 2013 Form 10Q for the quarter ended March 31 2014 recent current reports on Form 8K and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Dave Dave?  Thank you Kelly and good morning everyone.
I am obviously very pleased with our second quarter results and here are the headlines record company revenue this quarter of $8.1 billion double-digit sequential revenue growth and new quarterly records in both North America and Middle East/Asia.
We once again delivered industry-leading revenue growth both sequentially and year-over-year compared to our primary peers.
We had strong cash flow from operations of $1.1 billion and our Board has approved an increase in our buyback authorization to $6 billion.
I am also pleased to announce the promotion of Jeff Miller to President and his appointment to Halliburton’s Board effective August 1st.
I’ve known and worked with Jeff for 25 years and I am absolutely confident he will do an excellent job leading our very strong management team.
Now for some details around our performance this quarter company operating income increased 23% sequentially led by a 31% increase in North America operating income with an impressive 280 basis point improvement in margins to 18.2%.
The Eastern hemisphere had an equally impressive 220 basis point margin improvement to 16% resulting from a 26% growth in operating income.
Now on our last call some of you may have been skeptical when I said I was beginning to feel the turn in North America but based on our performance during the quarter I believe this feeling was dead on target.
Today we are not feeling the turn we are in the turn and I feel even more excited than I was last quarter about the outlook for the North American market.
Why is that? During the quarter we saw our completion volumes continue to rise and I don’t see that changing.
Our logistics infrastructure is more of a differentiator than ever before.
We were successful in getting cost recovery from our customers.
And we estimate the percentage of excess horsepower has dropped below the 10% mark and capacity has tightened to the point that the market will require new horsepower to meet customer demand.
As you know based on the competitive advantage of our Frac of the Future our plan has always been to upgrade our fleet to Q10s over time.
These current trends provide us confidence that now is the appropriate time to accelerate our Q10 build schedule.
We anticipate incremental fleets arriving in the fourth quarter and throughout 2015.
We’ve also been investing to increase our logistics capability as well.
I am confident that these are the right moves.
So even in the unlikely event the market softens we always have the option of accelerating the retirement schedule of older equipment and replacing them with Q10s.
Now moving to our international operations Eastern Hemisphere activity continues to expand at the steady rate that we expected.
But you know what steady is exciting for us because it demonstrates that our view of the market was the correct one and that we are sized and scoped correctly to turn industry-leading revenue growth into steadily increasing margins.
Our outlook for the full year remains intact.
We are still targeting our Eastern Hemisphere revenue growth to be in the low double-digits with average full year margins in the upper-teens and approaching 20% by the end of the year.
Second quarter margins of 16% show we are on-track to deliver that.
Turning to Latin America we faced issues around revenue timing during the quarter.
Now it’s easy for me to give my head around the issues and I can see a path forward to normalized profitability.
But I am certainly not thrilled with how some of the things played out this quarter; first there was an issue with the late receipt of our software consulting blanket order from PEMEX which impacted our ability to book revenue to offset our costs which of course significantly hurt second quarter results.
This should reverse itself in the second half of the year.
Second we were mobilizing for two large integrated projects which resulted in cost but minimal revenue for the quarter.
This also should reverse itself in the second half of the year.
Lastly the rig count approached a 10 year low and social disruptions impacted operations resulting in reduced discrete service activity in Mexico.
However we remain encouraged by the prospect of energy reform in Mexico and believe that as the market gains more certainty around the direction of reform future service activity will increase.
And in Brazil we are pleased with our customers’ decision to re-tender the deepwater drilling contract which should allow us to right-size our footprint there.
So looking at the full year we continue to target 2014 Latin America margins to be in line with the prior year at approximately 13%.
Now let me be clear about one thing and I’ve been around long enough to know headwinds become tailwinds therefore I am optimistic about our future growth potential in Latin America as we go into 2015.
So our overall strategy is working well and we intend to stay the course.
Our leadership position in North America positions us well to capture the upside of this exciting and quickly evolving market and we are continuing to realize significant revenue and margin expansion in our international business.
We remain dead focused on consistent execution generating superior financial performance and providing industry-leading shareholder returns to you.
Now I am going to turn the call over to Mark to provide financial details.
Mark? Thanks Dave and good morning.
Let me begin with an overview of our second quarter results.
Starting with North America revenues were up 11% sequentially relative to a 4% increase in U.S.
land rig count.
And operating income was up 31% over the same period.
Margins increased to 18.2%.
Stronger activity levels in U.S.
land primarily drove the improvement for the quarter.
Margins also benefited from modest pricing improvements on pressure pumping contract renewals which were designed to cover inflation on specific cost categories such as transportation fuel and labor.
These improvements were partially offset by the Canadian spring breakup and lower sequential profitability in the Gulf of Mexico due to the timing of completions activity.
In the Eastern Hemisphere revenue and operating income increased sequentially by 9% and 26% respectively as a result of growth in both the Middle East/Asia and Europe/Africa/ CIS regions.
We experienced a seasonal rebound in revenue and margins after encountering typical first quarter weather-related weakness in the North Sea Russia and Australia.
In our Middle East/Asia region revenue and operating income increased by 11% and 25% respectively compared to the first quarter.
Saudi Arabia showed strong sequential improvement driven by our consulting directional drilling and drilling fluids product lines.
We are very excited about this market and continue to see revenue and profitability improving at a very aggressive rate.
Additionally we continue to see solid growth across the majority of our Asia Pacific countries with Australia Malaysia and China leading the pack for the quarter.
The current situation in Iraq has resulted in some logistics bottlenecks and increased security measures but our operations which are in Southern Iraq and in Kurdistan are away from the fighting and are continuing.
We continue to expect the Middle East region to have the highest growth rate for the full year 2014 despite the potential for activity disruptions in Iraq later this year.
However contract renewals and tenders for new work in Iraq are currently being pushed back which may mute our growth expectations as we exit the year.
Turning to Europe/Africa/CIS revenue and operating income increased 6% and 27% respectively compared to the prior quarter.
The seasonal activity rebound in the North Sea and Russia led to sequential improvement.
Additionally sub-Saharan Africa showed sequential improvement led by drilling activity gains in Angola and higher completions intervention in pipeline processing services in Nigeria Ghana and Congo.
The Russia sanctions have not had a material impact on our activity levels up to this point but there is some risk related to certain projects that are being tendered later this year.
Latin America revenue increased 4% sequentially while operating income declined by 39%.
Despite double-digit revenue improvement this quarter in Venezuela Argentina and Colombia we were negatively impacted by project mobilization and the blanket order delays in Mexico which Dave previously discussed.
Our corporate and other expense totaled $107 million for the quarter a little higher than anticipated driven by retirement cost and higher professional fees.
We invested approximately $15 million in our HALvantage strategic initiative during the second quarter.
These activities should wrap-up this next quarter.
We anticipate that corporate expenses for the third quarter will run approximately $90 million to $100 million.
Our effective tax rate for the second quarter came in at approximately 28%.
For the remainder of 2014 we are expecting the effective tax rate to be approximately 28% to 29%.
Cash flow from operations during the second quarter was $1.1 billion an increase of approximately 18% compared to the first quarter.
Excluding the $215 million in acquisitions made this quarter we have generated approximately $356 million in cash and marketable securities during the quarter.
As we progress through 2014 we believe we are well-positioned to generate significantly more cash and that our cash flow will continue to grow in the coming years.
As a reminder we are working to grow the percentage of cash available for distribution to shareholders to roughly 35% of our operating cash flows over the next few years which is nearly double our historic average.
As discussed we intend to accelerate our Q10 build schedule and expand our logistics infrastructure.
As a result we now expect that our 2014 capital expenditures will be approximately $3.3 billion an increase of $300 million compared to our previous guidance.
We also expect depreciation and amortization to be approximately $2.1 billion during 2014.
Now moving to the Eastern Hemisphere outlook in the third quarter we are anticipating a mid single-digit percentage improvement in revenue and we expect margins to migrate modestly higher into the upper-teens.
Revenue is expected to continue to step higher in the fourth quarter which is seasonally our strongest quarter of the year with margins approaching 20%.
We continue to expect full year revenue growth to be in the low double-digits and margins averaging in the upper-teens.
In Latin America we expect mid-teen sequential revenue expansion in the third quarter and believe margins should approach the mid-teens.
With continued improvement in revenue and margins in the fourth quarter as a result we expect full year revenue and margins to be in line with 2013.
However our second half outlook assumes the timely approval of our billings under the blanket order in Mexico as well as a swift resolution of the retender of our Brazil drilling contract.
And concluding with North America we are expecting revenue growth in the third quarter to outpace the rig count with North America margins approaching 20%.
While we expect the rig count to continue to increase utilization levels are very high and growth in the third quarter could be constrained by the availability of equipment until incremental fleets begin to arrive later in the year.
Now I will turn the call over to Jeff for an update on our strategy.
Jeff?  Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
Our strategy is in the deepwater mature fields and unconventionals are clearly delivering results.
These led not only to record company revenues but also quarterly revenue records for our production enhancement baroid cementing wireline production chemicals and artificial lift product lines.
So for today’s comments I’ll focus on our execution against these three strategies.
Recall that our unconventional strategy is to deliver the lowest cost per barrel of oil equivalent through surface efficiency custom chemistry and subsurface insight.
Let’s start with surface efficiency.
We’re seeing record activity levels with year-over-year stage counts up more than 20% and profit volumes per well up about 35%.
We also saw record sales of our drill well plugs for plug-and-perf operations as well as record installations of our RapidSuite sliding sleeve technology.
All of these indicators point to larger volume jobs which is precisely for the Q10 pump excels consistently delivering 20% higher flow rates with about 50% lower maintenance cost than a legacy pump.
And one last comment on North America surface efficiency regarding profit and infrastructure while we see sufficient quantities of sand at the mines the transportation infrastructure has and will continue to experience unprecedented levels of congestion.
And we see profit competing for delivery not only with other profit types but also with oil and agricultural products.
And while we’re not immune to this impact we’re confident that we have the best developed logistics infrastructure and we plan to continue adding to this capability throughout the year.
Moving on to subsurface insight we continue to gain traction with our CYPHER platform that optimizes where to drill how to drill where to frac and how to frac to make better wells.
CYPHER applications continue to grow with over 50 projects underway across more than a dozen basins globally which makes me even more excited about our recent release of CYPHER 2.0.
That refines our earth modeling capability increases our simulation accuracy and allows real-time adjustments during frac treatments.
And finally our Custom Chemistry solutions are helping deliver better wells.
Our AccessFrac diversion technology clean breaking PermStim and our RockPerm formation analysis have all demonstrated better production for our clients.
For example AccessFrac has delivered on average 20% better performance than offset wells with market uptake tripling since last year.
RockPerm was first introduced only one year ago as a means to enhance production through better hydrocarbon mobility and it’s now used in more than one-third of our North American completions.
And as we work across every basin we get to see the different methods used in all of those basins.
And even as volume trends emerge our new techniques gain popularity we’re more convinced than ever.
The customized frac design and customized fluid chemistry delivered better sustainable production for our clients.
Now turning to the mature field space we’re pleased with the progress of our large IPM and asset management projects.
During the quarter we were either rewarded or began mobilizing on large integrated projects in India Kuwait UAE and Indonesia.
For example our 93 well integrated project with Cairn India is the first IPM project in India to employ tier 1 land rigs.
These projects and other provide us with a strong platform for growth in addition to a pursuit pipeline of over 30 billion in project management opportunities that we’re currently evaluating.
And during the quarter we started on the multi-decade Humapa incentivized asset management project in Mexico.
Early work over operations have been successful and the production levels are already well ahead of schedule in the project.
We expect to spud new wells in this asset during the second half of 2014 bringing up to two rigs by the end of the year.
Also in Mexico we spud at our first well in the Mesozoic project in late June and expect our second well to spud in late July.
Our Mesozoic project represents a $1 billion opportunity over the next few years.
We plan to mobilize additional rigs over the next several quarters moving towards four rigs by early 2015.
And during the second quarter we expanded our artificial lift capabilities through the acquisition of Europump an industry leader in progressive cavity pump systems.
This acquisition is an important step forward in our artificial lift strategy which complements our existing electric submersible pump technology and positions us to benefit from this growing market.
Overall we’re very pleased with the progress of our mature field strategy.
The Europump acquisition expands our discrete service offerings and we’re confident in our ability to execute on these large integrated projects.
Looking at deepwater we continue to increase reliability and reduce uncertainty for our customers.
As we introduced new technology we’re dramatically simplifying equipment design to increase the operability of the equipment.
Examples include our full suite of high pressure open hole logging tools designed for the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and our new ultra deepwater subsea control system Dash EH which is integrated with Veto Halliburton’s premiere 3-inch 15k Subsea Safety System that performs emergency well shut-in and critical landing stream disconnect in less than 15 seconds.
Specific to the Gulf of Mexico we continue to see incremental deepwater activity for the balance of the year and an increase in lower tertiary rate completions in early 2015.
In the third quarter we expect to begin operations on an integrated deepwater project for a major customer providing drilling and completion services across multiple wells.
During the second quarter we also acquired Neftex Petroleum Consultants a market leader in reducing uncertainly in basins the world over.
Neftex has created a unique 4-D model of the subsurface already used by E&amp;P companies worldwide to evaluate and identify resources more quickly and more accurately.
We expect this acquisition will touch all three of our key strategies by integrating data and interpretations from the Neftex Earth Model with Landmark’s DecisionSpace platform.
We expect to be able to accelerate our customer’s ability to explore prospects and increase our ability to predict drilling success.
In closing I want to be clear that our strategies are working.
We continue to see strong long-term growth opportunities across unconventionals deepwater and mature fields.
In fact I would like to highlight the performance of our Eastern Hemisphere where we’ve see revenue expand by more than 50% over the last three years with margins stair-stepping higher year-after-year.
This has been a consistent focus on our three key themes that is driven this success.
In mature fields we are now the leading surface provider of primary customer against Norway driven by our focus on both discrete and integrated solutions.
In unconventionals we are the leading provider of unconventional services in Australia and recently into joint venture to expand our footprint in China.
In deepwater we have seen tremendous growth with all product lines drawing baroid fluids in Asia Pacific creating a testing business almost from scratch and a completions business that is now number one globally.
Looking ahead with the projects we have in place and the technology we’re putting to work we are very optimistic about our growth prospects for the Eastern Hemisphere in the coming years.
Before I hand the call back to Dave one final note it is truly a privilege to serve as President of Halliburton.
I have been part of the management team for several years and I have been part of developing our current strategies so you should expect us to stay the course and remain dead focused on superior growth margins and returns.
I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Board and the over 80 000 Halliburton employees for their steadfast support.
Now I will turn the call back over to Dave for his closing comments.
Dave? Thanks Jeff.
In North America we are past feeling the turn we are in the turn and we will be accelerating our Q10 build in the order to meet customer demand.
In Latin America we feel optimistic about improved second half but are still monitoring a few potential headwinds regardless of that 2015 is shaping up to be a strong year.
In the Eastern Hemisphere we are still on-track for low-double digit full year revenue growth with margins averaging in the upper-teens.
And finally our strong outlook for the business provides us with confidence in improving increase shareholder returns going forward as is evidenced by our increase in stock buyback authorization to a new total of $6 billion which represents approximately 10% of our market cap today.
With that let’s open it up for questions.
Great thank you.
Good morning.
Hi Kurt good morning.
Maybe a question for either Dave or Jeff with respect to the re-tendering on Brazil when do you think you might get the bids opened and how do you expect to see that playing out going forward I guess in the context of you still expect to be awarded in the same package that you were awarded before? Yes thanks Kurt.
That rebid is in process right now so the documents haven’t been resubmitted.
We still expect to see that conclude this year expect early Q4.
With respect to competitive positioning I am not going to share that with you here I expect it will be competitive but in any case expect to see a healthy reset as we look ahead into the ’15 and beyond.
Okay great.
My follow-up relates to the U.S.
frac business and the accelerated deployment of the Q10 pumps and I’m sure you are aware of increased equipment orders by other players in the market.
Can you help us calibrate what this may mean as it relates to the potential for pricing? You think it’s going to be more of a volume driven market or you think there’s an opportunity to get some price as time goes on?  Yes Kurt let me just kind of go through what we’re seeing in the marketplace with respect to activity.
We’re seeing all the right signs as capacity starts to tighten which we’ve seen fall below sort of 10% spare capacity.
We see activity increasing at breakneck rate we’re seeing some pass through of cost increases at this point and probably most importantly we have clarity of our frac calendar through the end of the year.
So all of those things give it a lot of confidence in adding our equipment because we see where that’s going to go work.
I think from a -- if you think more broadly about the market again we believe in our equipment it’s doing exactly what we thought it would do what we described at our Analyst Day so from Halliburton’s perspective very confident that the Q10 equipment is delivering.
Alright thanks I appreciate it.
Thanks good morning guys.
Hey Angie.
So on the Q10 roll out is there is any constraints in adding this incremental equipment if you want to accelerate it even further and can you talk about how much you’re adding incrementally as far as percentage wise from you what you were adding at the beginning of the year?  Yes thanks Angie.
From a competitive standpoint we’re not going to share with you quantities of equipment and that sort of thing.
But suffice to say that we have the ability that’s one of the reasons we stay in the manufacturing business it gives us the ability to flex more quickly and then put the equipment when and where we need it.
So there’s no constraints in adding equipment at a more accelerated rate if you want to even up it from here or do you have any constraints in the system? And then to add to that on the legacy equipment is it fair to say that all retirements will stop at this time or are you still seeing some retirements at the older equipment?  Hey Angie this is Mark.
Just so I oversee the capital side let me weigh in we did during the second quarter stop the retirement of some of our equipment just because of the activity levels were so great; we were rolling Q10s out the ability to leave some of the older equipment out there allowed us to basically gain a spread or so to sort of address some of that activity.
From a capital standpoint we’re building to contract.
We’re building to what we can see.
There is the ability to dial that further if the market accelerates further but we think that this build schedule is aggressive enough to make sure that we’re addressing the market as we see it that will be available for Halliburton over the next 18 months or so.
Okay helpful and then as a follow-up you mentioned it briefly in your remarks on the cost recoveries are you now seeing that in every instance are there still some regions of pushback and I believe you signed a new agreement earlier this year that would actually reduce your sand cost and that you’re also doubling your rail fleet as far as your ownership of the rail fleet could both of these start to help margins in Q3 or is it more Q4 2015?  Yes Angie to address the first part of the question which is really what are we seeing across the entirety of North America.
It’s not all the same in terms of tightness nor is it the same in terms of cost.
So the ability to get the cost pass throughs we’re able to do that where we see that kind of inflation.
The second part of your question around logistics truly a place where we have a lot of confidence in our ability and our supply chain organization has a great window into the market in terms of how to acquire the inputs and as you suggested or as we’ve said in our comments we’ll continue to build the logistics capability that we have and so that’ll -- across a number of different parts of that supply chain.
Great thanks I’ll turn it over.
<br>Thank you.
Just to follow-up on the pricing question cost pass-throughs are usually the first step and you went out of your way to say that there’s less than 10% excess capacity in the industry which seemingly sets a stage for real pricing increases and as we know your prices are well below where they were at the peak of the last cycle when do you see it -- do you see it and if so when do you see it coming going from more of a cost recovery to real price increase environment in domestic pressure pumping?  Yes Jim I can’t I’m not going to give you a date or a time in that case what best I can do is describe the conditions precedent which is what we’re seeing; recall oil cycles are a little different than gas cycles in terms of spikiness so -- but we -- our build schedule and sort of our view into the market gives us a lot of confidence around kind of that what we see for the balance of this year and in ’15.
Okay.
And do you see - last cycle as I recall when you were building equipment you would not add equipment unless you sold the least four other services along with the stimulation equipment do you have a similar strategy now this year and will you be requiring your customers to order at least three or four product lines? Jim we see pull through on services consistently I mean that’s part of our value proposition in terms of how we go to work most efficiently from a competitive standpoint I am not going to get into the requirement or where we are in that cycle but we are confident that the package of services that we put to work really work well together particularly as the market gets tighter and busier.
Okay thank you.
No.
Thank you.
And apologize if I ask a question that might have been answered already as that line dropped off.
But there is a question in terms of the capacity of how it’s going to tighter in the market.
How much of this do you think is due to seasonally smaller because you guys haven’t had a lot of extra backup on wells and also we have a co-refurbishment cycle which I think is probably starting to kick in.
Is that playing a factor in terms of the market tightening up to kind of less than 10% of excess capacity now? Well volume matters a lot and so our strategy has been to build equipment into the market that handles a lot of volume and handles the volume more efficiently than competing equipment in the market.
So what we’re seeing it shape up in terms of tightness which is a function of volume size of jobs that we have described plays right to us.
I think that’s -- so anyway it gives us a lots of confidence in the direction both the markets going and where we are.
So do you need less backup capacity on a given well than your competitors? Can you give us some sort of sense as to how much less that would be? Clearly less how much less that kind of depends on the size of the job and where it is and some of those things.
But again our whole strategy was around putting equipment that is basically the lowest total cost of ownership and the ability to handle bigger jobs with less back up.
And we’re seeing that happen that’s why we’re -- and we described the 20% better efficiency out of our equipment and we’re consistently seeing that work that way.
Okay a question for Mark on the guidance so on the third quarter guidance you guided to kind of close to 20% margins in North America in the third quarter.
Now if I recall correctly a lot of that’s all coming from the cost side.
Is there more to go on the cost side you see margins picking up and should we start thinking and could we kind of start layering in I know you’re kind of holding off and kind of say in the timing of pricing.
But is that kind of next phase as you think about margin progression in North America? Yes I think in terms of cost it is.
If we look back at sort of the margin progression in Q1 to Q2 there is a little bit of cost some of that’s cost of goods sold and then commodities as Angie highlighted earlier that we certainly were able to add some share.
But when you look back I mean in our analysis it is very much activity driven.
Our units out there are working harder and they are sort of a breakpoint that really adds to the margin.
We just finished the roll out of the core components of our Battle Red program.
It’s now in the field fully deployed.
We’re working through the change management of that process now as that stabilizes for the next couple of months.
There is going to be additional cost savings that will be added to it.
We’re going to continue to work on supply chain and logistics.
We all I think across the face of logistics bottlenecks and issues in the early part of Q2 with moving sand where it needed to be.
We’ll think as we continue to iron out logistics and add to our infrastructure there.
We’re going to be able to continue to drive additional savings.
So at least -- we said all along we believe that we could get to close to 20% without the benefit of pricing and that is still the internal goal and we’re driving hard to that and we think that the results of Q2 were a strong step toward that goal.
Thanks and I guess I’ll stay in the Western Hemisphere too.
But first in Latin America have you received the blanket order from Mexico for consulting and project management? I wasn’t quite clear from the comment thus far.
So Brad the answer is yes.
We did get the blanket order but we didn’t get it in time to be able to book any revenues in Q2.
And so now that we have the blanket order in hand the process now is submitting billings that ultimately need to be approved by PEMEX management that ultimately can translate into revenue.
So I mean that really was the impact of Q2 that we had to book cost and no ability to book revenues offsetting that even on an unbilled basis.
So that we’ve got it now in hand and that’s why we feel fairly confident in our second half guidance around Latin America with regard to that.
Right assuming -- I guess assuming any kind of normal processing of those -- of your bills? That’s right I mean it’s clearly -- it's still customer dependent.
We’re subject to their timing and if they approve those bills on an expeditious manner then we get to book the revenues and have the margin uplift associated with it.
Okay make sense.
And then if I can come back to the U.S.
too I guess we’re also bouncing around some different questions here but have you experienced in your view do you think you’ve experienced some taking away of work from somebody else because of your distribution capabilities has have others already struggled but getting in the sand in place or some other facet of logistics that do you think you’ve already taken share because of constraints of others? But we did it at all the time Brad this is -- we rely on our infrastructure we’re very proud of the logistics capability that we have and we really put to work in the second quarter.
Fair enough.
Alright that’s fine.
Thank you very much.
That makes sense thanks.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Back to Latin America Mark high confidence level with regard to your Latin America second half guidance and you’re rationale with regard to the endorsing of the software order makes sense.
You also had a stake in however in the press release that “we believe our full year Latin American margin should improve sufficiently to be around the ’13 assuming approval on the billings under the blanket order in Mexico as well as a swift resolution of a retender in the Brazil drilling contract” it doesn’t sound like given you commentary that in fact your Latin American targets for the second half of the year are all that contingent on a resolution or the retender correct? No they are contingent on that as well the -- I mean both issues are there the Mexico lack inability to build on the blanket order and of course the mobilization cost that we incurred where the larger issues of why the margins were off of Q1.
So I think that relative to guidance that we gave at the end of Q1 the blanket order was the culprit that really hurt us in terms of being below what we thought the Latin American business was going to look like in Q2.
So as we go to Q3 getting that back certainly helps us.
The Brazil retender obviously we’re subject to our customers’ calendar as well on that front they have a fairly aggressive schedule and so for they’ve been executing against that schedule we’re hopeful that we can get some relief under that contract expeditiously if for some reason they begin to delay that process that push retender out to the end of the year and again right now I can’t see that but assuming that happened it could have a marginal impact on us later in the year in the fourth quarter.
But the vast majority of the margin bridge for the second half of the year is the combination of the blanket order in Mexico coupled with object inception in Mexico as well?  That’s exactly right.
Okay great.
And then secondly this is probably a Dave question but maybe not with regard to -- or Russia you’ve made some comments here there are some project tenders in the latter part of the year which now -- which could be delayed based upon the possibility of sanctions or just the turmoil that’s underway in the region could you elaborate on that and what that means? And then moreover if you could remind us kind of what percentage of your revenues are actually derived from Russia these days? Thank you.
Yes thanks Bill.
The Russia business for us is the growing business and I think the commentary that you’re describing is more around our outlook if sanctions were to be increased or become more so currently at least till now the sanctions themselves have had a minimal impact on the business but as we -- as sanctions potentially escalate and the risk of more sanctions sort of looms that's what we believe puts some risk into the business in the back half of the year.
I think on your sizing question Bill this is Mark I don’t want to give any kind of specifics but I think the Russian business is the low single-digits percentage of our total revenues company revenues low single-digits.
Pickering Holt</strong>  Hi good morning.
You mentioned several numbers just around completion size and intensity in the both leading edge I believe ahead of what you’re seeing year-to-date what are the answers for the industry to just in terms of preparedness is that just greater local storage and do you see infrastructure as a limit or in terms of the industry actually being able to transition completions to where they want to go over the next 12 months? Yes thanks.
And we were seeing as you described record levels of congestion rather to speak for the industry itself I will speak for Halliburton and so where we spend our time is focused on building out that logistics capability to have access to adequate supplies of both propones and chemicals and there are many elements along that supply chain and we focus on each of them and we also maintain a broad base of suppliers on the sort of the source end of that business so I think the -- from our standpoint the volumes continue to increase we really think it plays to what we would like to do which is prop into location and then just as importantly have the equipment on location that can handle it and deliver jobs very effectively.
Pickering Holt</strong>  And the follow-up question has -- it is just around any sort of inflationary pressure as you are seeing here in the U.S.
anything at this point where you are not able to recover your cost inflation from the customers even if it’s not matched perfectly in timing and you think that you are stuck with?  Not at this point we are able to -- so we have got great visibility into the inflationary pressures we are -- and because of that I think we have the ability to respond to those quickly and get those in front of our customers.
Pickering Holt</strong>  Okay thank you guys.
Good morning guys.
Hi Jim.
I want to ask a pricing question because the anti-trust but I do want to drill down on something investors don’t want anybody in the industry adding capacity.
If anybody adds capacity it slows down the pricing improvement so some people are going to see your acceleration of capacity adds as a negative.
And I just want to ask I would assume that these capacity additions won’t reduce margins it won’t reduce your returns is that a fair statement?  That’s a fair statement Jim I mean we are building to contract and we are building to fair away customers I say fair away players.
So we have got a lot of confidence that our equipment it goes to work in the market.
Okay okay I appreciate that that’s going to probably be one of the hottest topics following the conference call is what that’s going to be and I would assume that the 300 billion increase in CapEx would be to a large extent that acceleration of hydraulic horsepower?  Yes it is.
Okay my follow-up if I could Bill asked it and I will kind of chime in in the end.
The two areas that we are worried about going forward are Iraq and Russia but only if sanctions or violence continues it then reveres -- you guys only have about a $100 million in assets in Iraq how material could that be in the year or two if things get worst than better does that -- would that be enough to drive your earnings down in two years?  Jim as we look at that market I mean it’s a bit of a unknown over two years time what that could mean what we are seeing happen today are delays and getting contract approvals through the government and the extensions of contract I have to believe that that rights itself over a period as long as two years because of the importance of hydrocarbons in that markets and to the government et cetera.
So as we look further down the road I mean I can see where this comes right as things settle out if it were to continue to escalate clearly we have got other places we could move equipment and put it to work even in that very region.
So I think we have got lots of options we just prefer not to exercise them.
Thanks for the clarification guys.
Thanks.
So back at the November Analyst Day kind of weighed out the North American target that at some point second half of the year margins would be approaching 20% activity levels are better than expected at that point in time the frac market is tighter you are getting cost recovery just what’s the market dynamic that keeps from seeing margins above that 20% at that time the target that was weighed out at that time?  As I hear a tough customer I think it’s ultimately the dynamic largely the fact that there is inflation offsetting a lot of what we are doing to right here you talked about activity you talked about the increased -- the ability to pass through but we are constantly as Jeff has alluded to managing logistics challenges we are managing inflation across a number of cost categories and so that really is ultimately is pushing against us.
We are continue to navigate through that very effectively and as I have indicated earlier what we are seeing our largest margin improvement thus far has been on just the share efficiency of running our crudes really stretching out what we can do with these Q10 fleets and what our guys could do in the field every single day it’s a differentiator for Halliburton that we see other people not being able to drag we are going to continue to push on that until such time as I would say the pricing lock jam breaks.
And so may be if I just summarized it it’s -- yes you are getting cost recovery which is not instantaneous relative to the cost inflation that you are seeing?  Yes it never is.
It never is.
Okay.
And then just a quick clarification the less than 10% excess capacity in horsepower is that before or after what I would call just normal industry friction?  Not sure what you define is friction Doug… It’s just crudes moving in the yard just something that -- there is always some amount of capacity that’s not available even if it truly is in the market?  Our view is that it probably has some view of that right.
The reason we believe that’s fallen that low is impart sort of twofold.
One is crude sizes have to grow seems like 20% to 50% in some cases as the equipments working harder so you have got more equipment in the field per fleet.
And the second issue is because it’s working so much harder there is more in the shop and in the base being worked on at any one point of time.
And so the net what we are trying to do is get a percentage calculation of what’s available to work and it appears to us that what’s available to work now is less than 10%.
Perfect thank you.
Thank you.
My question relates to the share buyback program or the expansion that you announced.
Mark are you going to I mean just to kind of sort of regular share buybacks on a monthly basis or this Dutch auction that you are considering as well as you have done in the past?  Waqar there is no limitation as to how we can spend the money that the Board has authorized us to spend so I wouldn’t necessarily preclude a Dutch auction.
I think though that right now it doesn’t feel like that’s the appropriate way to approach the market.
We just did one last year.
It was debt finance and so our debt ratio was high.
What I am primarily focused on is thinking about how do we deploy access cash either -- obviously we have an opportunity here for reinvestment in the business that we have been discussing in North America.
We have an opportunity all the way for additional M&amp;A transactions similar to what we accomplished in Q2.
But to the extent that we are generating more cash flow than we thought we would and that certainly has been the case over the last couple of quarters.
And we believe will continue to be the case over the next few quarters.
You will see us be in the market doing ratable share purchases until such time as it makes sense collective sense financial sense to do something on a larger scale.
Okay.
And then on Brazil so retendering certainly positive but when should we expect kind of activity to actually pick up.
Is that something that could happen early in ’15 or later in ’15 what’s your view on that?  Waqar we don’t see a lot of change in ’15 I mean this could be a ’16 event when we see things take back up there.
There is opportunities for things to be done but I think there is also a lot of sorting out to be done.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Hi good morning.
Just wanted to go back also to the Analyst Day comments as well and I was hoping you can may be update us on the context of the guidance I believe you gave at that Analyst Day around $6 number for 2016.
I also believe they are really heavily dependent on the self help you could do and getting really contemplate this improvement in this North America cycle.
So may be clarify for us if you can and then also kind of may be give us some update on how you are thinking is it possible that that kind of $6 number I know it could have gone higher I remember that slide at your Analyst Day.
Can we see that $6 kind of run rate sooner than that or that $6 number going higher in ’16 as well may be an update there? Chuck 2016 seems like a long long time away but I think it’s fair to say six months or so off of our Analyst Day.
We are very pleased with the progress that we are making on all fronts and each of our strategy is unconventional deepwater mature fields.
From a financial standpoint the things that we are being able to accomplish in terms of improving cash flow we are tracking right along the line may be a little ahead of where we thought we will be in terms of reducing working capital.
And so as I look at it I think that everything is going exactly the way that we have planned may be a little bit better but don’t necessarily want to get out there right now with the 2016 forecast.
But certainly we firmly believe in our strategy both operational as well as financial strategy and we are going to execute against that strategy.
We are not going to lever-off of that right now and feel like that certainly it’s being successful in driving us forward.
Okay and then just a couple of quick ones.
When you did lay that out at that particular time did you anticipate having to add pressure pumping capacity or was that kind of planned with when you laid that out was that more of using what you had in the field? We had always planned to implement the Q10 in fact of the future strategy so the timing and the pace of that was not as clear certainly a bad time but given the value and the efficiency of the equipment part of our strategy has always been to put that newer technology to work.
Alright thank you very much.
Thank you Sam.
On behalf of the Halliburton management team I am sorry Dave… Yes Kelly let me just add one last comment to what Jeff said because I think it’s been important one and that and it goes back to the issue that the question Jim Wicklund had around our market expectations in adding pumping capacity.
Of course we’re not going to be crazy enough to add equipment into the market if we see that it’s going to have an impact on our margin expectations from the direction that they’re had it right now.
We build to market expectations.
We build to the customer base we have.
We build to the market share we believe that is efficient to support our business in North America.
And we’re also building in a Q10 fleet that we believe is second to none in the marketplace.
So as Jeff said all we really are doing is accelerating a bill that we have previously laid out to everybody to get it done faster to take advantage of the efficiencies and the competitive advantage we have from it sooner rather than later.
So I wouldn’t get too exercised about it in my view I think it’s the smart business decision and clearly we wouldn’t do it if we didn’t think it was in the best interest of our shareholders.
And with that I’d like to thank everyone for your participation.
And Sam I’ll turn it back over to you to close the call.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day ladies and gentlemen.
And welcome to the Halliburton’s Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today’s conference Kelly Youngblood Halliburton’s Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Good morning.
And welcome to the Halliburton third quarter 2014 conference call.
Today’s call is being webcast and a replay would be available on Halliburton's website for seven days.
Joining me today are Dave Lesar CEO; Mark McCollum CFO; and Jeff Miller President.
Some of our comments today may include forward-looking statements reflecting Halliburton's views about future events.
These matters involve risk and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to materially differ from our forward-looking statements.
These risks are discussed in Halliburton’s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2013 Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30 2014 recent current reports on Form 8-K and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason.
Our comments today include non-GAAP financial measures reconciliations to the most direct comparable GAAP financial measures are included in our third quarter press release which can be found on our website.
Unless otherwise noted in our discussion today we will be excluding the impact of restructuring charges taken in the third quarter of 2013 and an insurance recovery and a decrease to our reserve taken during the third quarter of 2014 both of which are related to the Macondo litigation.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Dave.
Dave.
Thank you Kelly and good morning to everyone.
I can tell you I am really pleased with our third quarter results.
Even with all the noise out there this quarter and things such as Russian sanctions disruptions in Libya and Iraq the supply chain challenges we faced and customer delays in the Gulf of Mexico I believe we met these challenges head on fought through them and we’re successful and I am really proud of our employees who made it happen.
Now here are the headlines: record company revenue of $8.7 billion.
We also delivered industry leading revenue and operating income growth both sequentially and year-over-year once again outgrowing our peer group.
New quarterly revenue records for both North America and the Eastern hemisphere with double-digit sequential revenue growing in Latin America and one I know you are going to want to hear is that the exit rate for this quarter for North American margins was over the 20% margin mark a major milestone in delivering our analyst day commitment to you our shareholders.
In addition our job board in North America remained sold out and we are delivering new stimulation equipment that will allow us to add incremental work in the fourth quarter with no negative impact on our margins.
We believe the Macondo case is an essentially over for Halliburton based on our settlement in the judge’s ruling in the litigation.
And lastly we continue to focus on delivering higher shareholder returns to you.
This quarter we repurchased an additional $300 million in stock and our Board of Directors has approved an additional 20% dividend increase meaning we now have doubled our quarterly dividend over the past two years.
Now let’s go through some of the geographies.
Company operating income increased 21% sequentially.
North America grew 15% Europe Africa/CIS 16% and Latin America more than doubled by growing 126% from the prior quarter.
In North America activity levels continued to surge higher month over month due to an unprecedented level of service intensity.
As you will recall I called the turn two quarters ago.
This quarter things are clearly accelerating out of that turn and we do not see momentum slowing anytime soon.
We also made excellent progress on pricing and our stimulation contract renewals and on cost recovery for ongoing contracts.
Across key basins we have negotiated higher prices that at a minimum should recover current and expected future cost inflation and we should begin to see the full impact of new contract pricing as we move in to 2015.
Now a hot topic today is obviously proppant and sand logistics and we did experience some disruptions early in the third quarter where work was delayed because we were waiting on sand deliveries and we did in fact miss some jobs as did nearly every other service company.
But I can tell you we have great people who helped us manage through this challenge each and every day and we have now taken actions to get ahead of this issue going forward and Jeff will provide details on this in a few minutes.
Now moving to our international markets despite the geopolitical issues we faced in areas like Russia Libya and Iraq our eastern hemisphere activity continues to expand at a steady rate.
On the strength of markets like Saudi Arabia Southern Iraq West Africa and the Caspian we are on track to deliver double-digit revenue growth for the full year 2014.
In addition we expect to be awarded $1 billion of new work in Iraq.
And consistent with previous years we expect the fourth quarter in the eastern hemisphere to be our strongest quarter of the year due to seasonal year-end software and equipment sales.
So over the last three years we’ve delivered industry-leading double-digit revenue growth in the eastern hemisphere and as we look ahead to 2015 we anticipate the rate of growth may slightly moderate due to headwinds from ongoing geopolitical issues as well as customer spending adjustments especially among the IOCs as they seek to achieve better returns for their company.
And although double-digit growth may be a challenge for any service company next year we fully expect to continue to outpace our peers in revenue growth whatever market is handed to us.
Now let’s move to Latin American.
This has been an area that’s had a tough year.
Even with better revenue in the third quarter margins and overall activity levels still do not meet my expectations due primarily to continued operational delays in Mexico.
But as we look ahead I see several positive factors finally coming in to play.
First we are up and running on our integrated projects in Mexico and expect to be at full operational capacity in early 2015.
We are also excited about the pace of Mexico energy reform and expect to see strong opportunities in Mexico shale mature fields and deepwater markets in the coming years.
In Brazil negotiations on the recently retendered directional-drilling contract are progressing and we expect to be operating under the new and more profitable contract as we transition into the first quarter.
And last but not least we are very excited about our recent multi-billion dollar award in Ecuador where we expect strong growth as these projects ramp up next year.
So for Latin America I expect a much strong 2015 and we are well positioned for tremendous growth potential in the coming years.
Now before I close I have to recognize that there is currently a concern about the recent decline in commodity prices.
I am not going to predict what the oil price is going to be but on a longer term we believe industry fundamentals suggest that these lower prices are not sustainable.
While we might be in a slight oversupply situation right now remember demand is still growing.
Therefore considering North America and OPEC production expectations the continued tightness in global spare production capacity and potential geopolitical impacts on non-OPEC production we believe that supply and demand will essentially be back in balance in a relatively short period of time.
Nevertheless we are keenly aware that there is a risk of a moderation in activity if oil prices remain weak for an extended period of time.
What I can tell you is that in recent conversations with our North America customers we have not received any indication of activity levels slowing as we transition into 2015.
For example last week the IEA commented that approximately 98% of North America liquids projects have a breakeven price below $80 per barrel and over 80% work below $60 a barrel.
On the international front the majority of our NOC customers have not indicated that their activity levels will slow down at all.
However as I mentioned before we are ready expecting our IOC customers to moderate their capital budgets in 2015 to improve their individual company returns.
That being said we can’t be in denial about what is happening in the market today.
As you know I have been around the block a few times and I can tell you our management team is well equipped to handle this kind of uncertainty.
We will control what we can control in areas such as cost management contract price renewals and managing customer relationships.
We know that we can do these things very well.
My experiences taught me that if we keep the franchise strong and growing and I can tell you that we are going to do that aligned with the right customers which we’ve already done and take care of our employees we will be fine in the long run.
Whether this uncertainty lasts for a few months or longer we are ready for any market.
I think we are well positioned as a company to capture all of the market upside potential for you while giving you protection to any downside.
Strategically we are structured to deliver the lowest cost per barrel to our customers which in turn positions them and Halliburton to perform best in volatile markets.
As such we believe oil prices will have to remain at lower levels for a sustained period before the long term economics would begin to impact our primary customers.
So to sum it up our overall strategy is working well and we intend to stay the course.
Whatever the market we believe we can outperform our peers and we remained focused on consistent execution generating superior financial performance and providing industry leading shareholder returns.
We have delivered this to you in the past and I believe we will continue to do so in the future.
Now let me turn the call over to Mark to provide you some financial details.
Mark.
Thanks Dave and good morning.
Let me begin with an overview of our third quarter results starting with North America.
Revenues were up 9% sequentially.
This strong all organic growth was relative to a 3% increase in the US land rig count.
Operating income was up 15% over the same period margins for the quarter averaged 19.2% with our September exit rate coming in slightly higher than the 20% mark.
Stronger activity levels in US land and the rebound from the Canadian spring breakup drove the improvement for the quarter more than offsetting increased logistics cost and the impact of loop currents in the Gulf of Mexico.
Margins also benefited from modest pricing improvements on pressure pumping contract renewals which were designed to cover inflation on specific cost categories such as transportation fuel and labor.
In the Eastern Hemisphere revenue and operating income increased sequentially by 4% and 6% respectively.
Growth was led by Europe Africa/CIS where revenue and operating income increased 6% and 16% respectively compared to the prior quarter.
Seasonal increases in Russia and the Caspian higher activity in Angola along with increased well construction activity in continental Europe led the sequential improvement.
Partially offsetting these increases were activity declines in Libya Algeria and Norway.
The seasonal recovery in Russia was negatively affected by the recent sanctions and growth in this market is expected to be a challenge for the foreseeable future since we’ll be prohibited from tendering projects that fall under the sanctioned restrictions.
We expect our Russia business will continue to face headwinds next year including the possibility of additional sanctions but we are hopeful that full-year 2015 could come in at similar levels to this year.
Middle East /Asia region revenue increased by 3% sequentially and operating income was in line with the second quarter.
Activity improvements in Saudi Arabia Kuwait Oman India and Indonesia during the quarter were mostly offset by sequential declines in stimulation work in Malaysia and Australia.
On a year -over-year basis we’ve seen tremendous revenue growth across Middle East/Asia Saudi is leading with a 60% improvement and India Iraq and Thailand have all delivered growth over 30%.
The conflict in Iraq resulted in a shutdown of the majority of activities in Kurdistan in northern Iraq.
However the majority of our operations had been in southern Iraq away from the fighting where activity levels have remained relatively stable.
At this point activity is gradually returning to Kurdistan and overall we expect Iran to be a growth market for us in 2015.
In Latin America revenue increased 16% sequentially while operating income more than doubled compared to the previous quarter.
Mexico was the primary driver where we saw benefit of higher activity on our Humapa project and recent contract approvals which resulted in an increase in consulting and software revenue for the quarter.
We also experienced higher testing and directional drilling activity in Brazil as well as increased work over and stimulation activity in Venezuela.
Our corporate and other expense totaled $83 million for the quarter a little lower than anticipated driven by a reduction in strategic initiative cost and lower legal expenses.
We anticipate that our corporate expenses for the fourth quarter will be approximately $90 million.
Our effective tax rate for the third quarter was approximately 25% primarily driven by an adjustment to reflect the recoverability of our net operating loss carry forwards in Brazil.
For the fourth quarter you are expecting the effective tax rate to return to our normalized rate of approximately 28 % to 29%.
We now expect our 2014 capital expenditures will be approximately $3.2 billion and depreciation and amortization to be approximately $2.1 billion for the year.
During the third quarter we recorded income of $66 million in discontinued operations.
This is primarily related to settlement with KBR for amount sold to us under our tax sharing agreement with them.
We announced today that a Board of Directors approved a 20% increase to our quarterly dividend from $0.15-$0.18 per share resulting in a cumulative 100% increase to our quarterly dividend over the last two years.
As previously stated our intention going forward is for our dividend payout to equal at least 15% to 20% of our net income.
Additionally based on our continued confidence in our business prospects we bought back an additional $300 million in shares during the third quarter.
We still have $5.7 billion remaining in repurchase authorization from a Board of Directors available for future stock buybacks.
Now moving to the Eastern Hemisphere outlook; in the fourth quarter we are anticipating moderate growth resulting in a mid-single digit percentage sequential improvement in revenue with margins in the upper teens.
Middle East/Asia is expected to have a high single digit sequential improvement with margins approaching 20% for the quarter.
We expect our Europe Africa/CIS region to be relatively flat as a result of geopolitical challenges in Russia and Libya and reduced customer spending in the Norwegian sector of the North Sea.
In Latin America we expect mid-single digit sequential revenue growth in the fourth quarter with margins improving modestly from the third quarter.
This improvement is expected to result from year-end software and product sales as well as the continued ramp up of our IPM and asset management projects in Mexico.
Concluding with North America; in the fourth quarter we typically see a seasonal decline in both revenue and margins.
This year however based on the exit rates we saw in the third quarter as well as the incremental equipment we are currently deployed and considering our forecast for minimal holiday downtime this year we believe fourth quarter revenue and margins will be flat to modestly higher than the third quarter.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Jeff for an update on our strategy.
Jeff? Thank you.
Mark and good morning everyone.
I’m excited about our results this quarter the Halliburton team is dead focused on strategy execution and the results are clearly evident in the quarter’s industry-leading growth with both of our divisions setting revenue records as well as revenue records for 11 of 13 product lines.
As a reminder our strategy is built around three key growth markets unconventionals deepwater and mature fields.
Our unconventional strategy is designed to deliver the lowest cost per barrel of oil equivalent for our customers with surface efficiency custom chemistry and subsurface insight.
Our deepwater strategy is to increase reliability and reduce uncertainty.
And finally our mature field’s strategy is to deliver additional hydrocarbons in declining fields by identifying new reserves and optimizing the recovery of existing reserves.
Clearly these strategies are working.
In North America unconventional market the topic on everyone’s mind this quarter was logistics driven by big increases in both horizontal activity and completions intensity which is right in the sweet spot of surface efficiencies.
Now compared to the prior year US horizontal recount in the third quarter was up more than 20%.
Over the same timeframe our stage count was up more than 30% and our average sand per well increased by more than 50%.
While the rising recount was predominantly a Permian basin phenomena our customers are experimenting with larger completion volumes in almost every basin.
This is a fundamental change in well design that we believe is part of a continuing trend.
As Dave said earlier in the quarter we experienced issues related to logistical disruptions primarily around proppant.
Cast in terms of surface efficiency increasing intensity presents a terrific opportunity for us.
We’ve addressed these rising completion volumes by expanding our infrastructure and transport capability.
This includes increasing our sand terminal capacity by over 100% and we are on a path to double our current rate fleet.
In terms of the last mile trucking from the railhead out to the location we’ve added over 30 new contract suppliers so far this year giving us a better footprint in the capacity to handle these intense volumes of work.
Additionally we implemented a sand logistics command centre in Houston where operation personnel monitor supply levels in the basins and the set with transport and procurement specialists for tracking our rail and trucking fleets all in real time.
The combination of these steps resulted in a sharp increase in efficiency and we are confident that this integrated approach to logistics will continue to differentiate Halliburton.
A quick update on our CYPHER seismic-to-stimulation platform; we are now at over 60 projects running with more in the pipeline.
In addition to taking on new work we are also seeing customers expand CYPHER engagements to multiple basins in North America.
Most recently we started a multi-year CYPHER project in the Permian basis incorporating the full breadth of our products and services.
We are only a few months in to the study but early wells have already seen more than a 20% increase in average production compared to offset wells.
And CYPHER continues to serve as an engine for commercializing new technology like RockPerm a proprietary chemistry service that enables better oil flow and then FRACINSIGHT a Halliburton software package to help customers optimize the perforation placement and deliver the most efficient wells.
We are very pleased with the client uptake on the CYPHER platform and typically see follow-on work in additional basins with those same clients.
Our execution of surface efficiency custom chemistry and subsurface insight led to more than 20% extra rate margins for North America in the third quarter.
In deepwater we remain focused on technology that reduces uncertainty and improves reliability for our customers.
I will give you a couple of examples of technology that are getting traction right now.
The GeoTap IDS which is a sampling-while-drilling tool allows clients to take multiple fluid samples which reduces uncertainty while at the same time reducing costly rig time.
Another is BaraECD which is a drilling fluid that allows customers to stabilize circulating density enabling them to reliably drill more complex wells.
We have already seen success on a global basis from the Gulf of Mexico to the North Sea to the offshore Asia and most recently in deepwater Angola.
But the real point here is that we are executing a technology strategy that does exactly what we say to help clients reduce uncertainty and increase reliability in deepwater.
And now finally in mature fields our customers continue to look for ways to enhance recovery rates whether through discreet product offerings such as a recently acquired Progressive Cavity Pump technology or through large scale asset management projects.
Let me highlight just a couple of these large project opportunities.
The first is the recently awarded IGAPO project in Ecuador.
This is a project that provides asset management across nine mature fields.
This is a 15 year project that we expect to provide a stable long term revenue stream that could potentially double our business in the country representing a multi-billion dollar opportunity over the full term of the project.
We are very excited about this opportunity in Ecuador and expect work to begin late in the first quarter of 2015.
Second we recently extended and integrated drilling project in southern Iraq and are encourage by progress on several other significant IPM projects in the country.
We believe these opportunities will provide a platform for continued double-digit growth in the Middle East region throughout 2015.
Now beyond these recent awards we are currently evaluating a pipeline of well over $30 billion worth of IPM work which gives us confidence that we are on the right track with our mature field strategy.
And in closing we believe that our strategies continue to provide growth opportunities.
Our technology infrastructure and processes are aligned and we are relentlessly focused on superior growth margins and returns.
Now I will turn the call back over to Dave for his closing comments.
Dave? Alright thank you Jeff.
Before we go to the questions let me summarize what you heard today.
North American exit margins greater than 20% our new equipment will be going to work at at least those exit margins.
We are building our North American logistics to get ahead of the curve.
We made good progress this quarter negotiating price increases with our customers and in Latin America headwinds are becoming tailwinds and 2015 is shaping up to be a much stronger year.
In the Eastern Hemisphere there are few troubled spots but we still an opportunity for steady growth in the coming year and we continue to focus on delivering the highest shareholder returns as evidenced by our 20% dividend increase in addition of $300 million of stock repurchases during the quarter.
Before I close I want to make one final comment on the current environment.
The strategic initiatives we’ve been working on the last several years Battle Red Frac of the Future and others make us what I believe is the most efficient and adaptable organization in the industry.
We are able to execute equally well in either a boom market or one that’s more challenged.
Across the board we are focused on making better wells for our customers and better returns for you our shareholders.
So no matter what market is handed to us our strategies give us confidence that we will continue to outperform our peers.
So with that let’s open it up for questions.
(Operator Instructions) our first question comes from James West of ISI.
Your line is now open.
First of all just congrats on the substantial year-over-year growth in Eastern Hemisphere well above your peers.
I suspect Joe Rainey is pretty proud of what he’s been able accomplish.
And then Dave as you mentioned you’ve been around the block a couple of times here and I wanted to know kind of what’s your gut telling you right now about the outlook for North America as we go into next year? I know it’s a tough question but it’s on everybody’s mind and given your history in the industry I was curious about kind of your feel for what you think is going to happen next year.
Let me let Jeff take the first crack at it and then I will come in at the end if I feel I need to add something.
Our outlook today is very positive.
We are in the heavy part of our renewal period now and I would tell you that renewals are rolling up not down and as of last week I talked to a lot of customers and budgets are moving up not down.
So in terms of activity everything I see looks like its increasing into 2015 and quite frankly our strategy that we have in place around delivering the lowest cost per BOE in the market is more valuable than ever.
So I guess let me just add I think if you want to summarize it we are not feeling hearing seeing anything that says this momentum is going to change that we had coming out of Q3.
And then on the international side I think you gave a good outline of most of the regions around the world you know some obviously slowness from the IOCs but the same type of commentary around the NOCs in the international markets no commentary around them slowing down.
Not seen any of that James.
This is Jeff the capital is going to work it’s going to work in mature fields it’s going to work in unconventionals maybe more so than deepwater but again where we are positioned and what we are seeing around integrated asset management opportunities as in just a traditional work nothing leads us to believe that from an IOC perspective there is any change - NOC perspective.
Our next question comes from Jud Bailey of Wells Fargo.
Your line is now open.
Question on the fourth quarter you had indicated North American margins are -- you exited at 20%.
I believe Mark indicated you thought only a slight increase in margins from 3Q to 4Q.
Is that just allowing for seasonality or how should we think about the fourth quarter –a seasonally fourth quarter where your exit rate was above kind of what you had indicated I guess? Hey Jud this is Mark.
Yeah that’s exactly right you know we always try to consider that fourth quarter you have some holiday down time you are going to have some seasonality particularly in the Rockies where we have a dominant market position that will impact operations as you close out the year.
But what we are doing is we are looking at every thing on balance; first of all very strong exit rates second of all very strong activity levels that month-over-month continues to increase.
When we are working our equipment is working very hard.
We had already indicated earlier in the year that we’ve been building additional frac equipment you know we’ll have new spreads that are already hitting the street today that will be active during the fourth quarter that will be adding to our complement of equipment that will be generating revenues and so when you take all that on balance we are just saying that this fourth quarter uniquely looks like one that we could have a slightly better earnings and profits in this fourth quarter in North America than you might see in a traditional fourth quarter.
Now that’s assuming a very sort of standard weather pattern standard holiday downtime.
But from our base outlook it looks like its going to be a very good Q4.
And then if I could may be stretch the margin outlook into 2015 understanding that customers aren’t really indicating a slowdown at this point if we were to see some operators sort of scale back activity or just flatten out their budgets can you help us think about -- Halliburton’s going to have a lot of moving parts you are negotiating new contract at higher pricing it sounds like now.
If you see a softness in utilization and you are obviously recovering some of your recent cost increases as well; how should we think about your margins in 2015 if we were to see a slow down.
Is it a situation where you think you could hold the line of margins would they decline potentially or could they still go up because of the net pricing you are already starting to see in your contracts? Yeah Jud this is Jeff.
Our entire strategy is built around delivering Frac of the Future or HALvantage.
If we roll back to our analyst day we’d always said that we would continue to put more efficient equipment in the market and more efficient work practices so that we would be able to improve margins on the back of the way that we are working.
So as I look out into 2015 we are seeing those fundamental pieces of our business continuing to deliver which clearly means that we continue to see a positive impact on margins.
Yeah I think let me just one thing if you go again go back to analyst day the impact of things like Battle Red Frac of the Future and other things that you were doing at that point we thought could add five points in margin without any price increases.
And we are not backing off that view.
A lot of the push up and margins right now are just those things been implemented and us been more efficient as an organization.
So I think to answer the question specifically if you did have a flattening out I would expect that our margins would be at least where they are today.
Our next question comes from Angie Sedita of UBS.
Your line is now open.
So there was intensity growth of 50% quarter-over-quarter or year-over-year was pretty amazing and I know Jeff touched on it a little bit.
But could you give us additional color there on what you are seeing on the oil service intensity side and I know you indicated it was [basin] but can you go in to that a little bit.
And then thoughts on 2015 what kind of any insights at this point on the degree of service intensity growth that we could see this year and clearly its worth noting that even if the rig count is flat and the well count is flat you are still driving higher revenues in margins.
The (inaudible) intensity continue to increase on the basis of the types of jobs that are being designed and so we’ve seen a consistent increase in the amount of proppant and the amount of stages.
So I refer specifically to 30% increase in stage count 50% increase in sand consumption.
I would say that you see a bigger ramp in the more mature basins because that’s where we are really getting in to what I’d call sort of hyper efficiency and increasing the production of existing wells as oppose to way before its’ a little bit more I will use it with quotes around it “exploratory” in a few basins.
But as I look in to 2015 I don’ see anything that changes the pace of increase necessarily across the piece simply because we are making better wells and that’s what takes us back to the importance sand logistics and the ability to deliver.
I will give you a one quick anecdote; for us that have seen trains load we can unload an entire unit train in nine hours and we can load a truck in seven minutes.
So that’s kind of where we are focusing our attention.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then thinking about this oil service intensity growth and it’s reported out there we are going to add 1.5 million to 2 million in horsepower next year.
How much do you think of that is being added with standalone crews and they are actually full (inaudible) fleets and how much of that horsepower do you think is reinforcement for existing fleets; that there is much of the third or even more.
No I mean when we look at that our expectation that’s probably less than 10% coming in to the market and the fact is the equipment is working harder than it has ever worked before given the size of the stages and the amount of the sand.
So my expectation is most of that equipment will either be backup equipment four big jobs now with our Q-10 pumps we are more effective with typically 20% less horsepower on location and quite frankly less back up.
I put very little backup equipment to work in the market.
So that’s kind of the takeaway is not that concerned really not concerned about additional horsepower.
Our next question comes from Ole Slorer of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is now open.
Sorry to [harpoon] on the sand this year but some pretty staggering number of 50% up high and kind of what we have heard from other players.
Do you think that’s something that deals with Halliburton’s customer base and the opposition in the market or do you think this is sort of an industry trend.
Well I think it’s a little bit of both Ole we are working with fairway players we’ve always said that we make it a point to work with the most efficient operators in the market place so that we get the maximum utilization of the technology we are putting in the markets.
So we are pumping more sand may be then competitors would not surprise me at all.
But I do think longer term there will be a continued move towards better frac design thinking about our CYPHER technology how we design the best fracs to get the most production out of the wells.
And I do believe that will lead us to a continuation of larger volumes.
So how are you scaling your infrastructure over the next say two years and what are you planning for as far as your experience for 2015-’16 volume growth per well.
Well let me think about it this way and in terms of what we are doing to address that.
I think the volumes will continue to increase across the piece that may not stay at the same rate of increase.
But from our standpoint we’ll continue to invest in logistics and control the supply chain really from mine to the last well from the mine to the last mile it gets us to two locations which looks like sand transloading and investment in rail cars.
And these are things that overcome the logistics problems that seem to occur.
Which we are certainly – Ole this is Mark just to add to that from a contracting standpoint we are working very hard to make sure that we’ve got all the sand dates that we are forecasting under contract.
You know we’ll probably have 80% of our sand needs contracted this year it may go up to 90% next year.
By contracting our sand looking forward that allows us to shave off anywhere from 15% to 20% off of a spot of sand pricing.
Doing the same on rail cars making sure that we’ve got plenty of capacity to run full unit trains making sure that our transloading facilities each one are designed to offload complete unit trains.
We are the only one so far I think to have managed to be able to really offload complete unit trains on sight on some of our location and we are just going to look forward to where our customers are saying they are going to be running these volumes and make sure that the infrastructures onsite to be able to run as lean and efficient as we possibly can.
Our next question comes from Bill Herbert of Simmons.
Your line is now open.
Dave and Jeff to tackle the international question just a little bit differently.
You guys have been consistent and you’ve been correct here with regard to just the pace of international expansion in general over the past several years and when I look at your numbers for 2014 and juxtapose them against the preceding couple of years you will likely end up somewhere kind of high-single digits year-over-year in ’14 versus kind of a low teens rate of expansion in ’13 and a 20% rate of expansion in ’12.
So when we contemplate 2015 against the slate of opportunities and threats at this juncture do you think you will do well to match your international rate of growth of this year or should we expect something less.
So the answer to that was we expect outgrow the market or outgrow our competitors in that space.
There clearly are some headwinds when we look around the world right now.
So the North Sea Russia and Libya are clearly going to present headwinds so quite encouraged around tailwinds in the Middle East and Asia Pacific.
So when I think about growth more specifically it may be more of where capital gets put to work may be than it has been in the past we talked a lot about deepwater potential moderation as IOCs look at their capital budgets.
But that said the barrels come from somewhere and our expectation is that we may see more of that capital going in to development and mature field type of opportunities and so for that reason I am still very encouraged about our ability to sustain growth in to 2015 that would be sort of similar to where we are now.
Okay and the billion dollar project in Iraq can you elaborate on that and also I guess to play devils’ advocate for a second why would we even want that given the travails that the industry has witnessed over the past several years there.
Let me answer that (inaudible) your first question was your [output] in reverse order.
Why would we want that work? The fact is we are a lot smarter in that market than we’ve ever been.
I think we were early in to that market and underestimated the risk around logistics and a few other things.
We really like the contract the way this one looks in terms of terms and conditions.
So feel good about that.
The project itself I won’t name the project but it’s a great project its four rigs to drill 120 wells over the next probably three years.
We have invested heavily in putting our IPM team together and they are really executing it.
So if I think how we execute on mature fields longer term these are the kind of projects that we are going to do.
Our next question comes from Brad Handler of Jefferies.
Your line is now open.
May be just a quick one your CapEx commentary I guess just a little bit lighter than second quarter commentary.
What are you reflecting in that is that a difficulty in spending some capital and you will spend it in ’15 or are you actually shaving it relative to some of the commentary you’ve given us this morning.
There’s not been any kind of a conservative effort to shave capital.
I think its probably a little bit tighter forecast particularly as we look forward in some of the projects in the eastern hemisphere.
It just takes some time off and times to get things approved and so it’s just timing.
So you will see some of that coming in to probably the early part of 2015.
And then maybe an unrelated to follow-up and may be it’s a bit broader.
If I look at your North America D&amp;E revenues over the nine months it’s sort of tracking the rig count but I think it’s up 6% again nine months versus nine months and that’s relative to your horizontal rig count up 13% of US land any way or in the US.
So I know there’ some other factors and may be you will fill that in to the answer.
But how does – what the prognosis for how that is moving forward are there some things that that might move in place that can accelerate D&amp;E and they can align better with the horizontal rig count.
Are there some factors that continue to suggest it will somewhat less than that? Yeah and I think what you are seeing the current quarter is a bit of impact of the Gulf of Mexico.
So we experienced loop currents like everybody else and so we had a quite a bit slower activity in the Gulf of Mexico in the current quarter.
But the well construction type activity is going to track generally speaking the rig count.
But we are really encouraged as we look Q4 and beyond hit the loop currents behind us.
We really like our share in the Gulf of Mexico right now and it’s a growing share in the Gulf of Mexico.
Our next question comes from Jim Wicklund of Credit Suisse.
Your line is now open.
Eastern hemisphere production really hasn’t grown much in the last couple of years and you guys are setting records in terms of operating income and revenues and the US of course has been growing.
Is the level of activity in the eastern hemisphere somewhat inelastic considering that we at least have to maintain production.
Yes Jim that’s the right answer.
We are working harder and harder to produce arguably the same number of barrels but those barrels are critical to number of economies around the world and so when we look at sort of outlook; two things one the projects that are started have to continue.
These are long duration type projects they don’t turn on and off and then secondly there are a lot of mature field type activity that we know would lower exploration risk almost nil exploration risks.
Those are projects that create terrific returns for our customers.
So I think those two conspire to give you an inelastic sort of outlook.
And my follow-up if I could there’s so much the same for in North America.
If the US unconventional production starts to decline on an unconventional hyperbolic the amount of effort it takes to reverse that is huge.
So how much activity in the US is needed to maintain not grow but just maintain existing US production.
You all have done that work? It’s quite a bit of the work that’s going on now and I guess Jim the way I would answer that is rather than give you a percentage I would say that we know the decline rates on existing wells’ fairly dramatic.
We know what it takes in order to continue to improve that.
So I would expect that sustaining activity or sustaining production in North America takes a quite a big chunk of the work that’s going on now.
Jim this is Dave I would just add one thing and I think we refer to it as sort of the treadmill effect.
What you want to do is get your customers in a basin where they’ve got sufficient amount of production that they have to get on the treadmill if you will to keep that production going because that’s a great place for a service company to be and a great place for the lowest cost most efficient service company to be because helping the customers stay on that treadmill as it gets faster and the incline goes up is part of the whole hyper efficiency model that we try to offer up to our customers.
Our next question comes from Kurt Hallead of RBC Capital Market.
Your line is now open.
I just had a follow-up question regarding the frac dynamics in US and you guys have discussed for many quarters now cost recovery process it seems like that is now beginning to take hold.
Just wondering what your perspective is terms of the incremental capacity that’s been added recently and whether or not some of that cost recovery can turn in to net pricing gains from an industry standpoint going forward.
I can’t speak for the industry but we’ll speak for Halliburton and this is right in our wheel house.
As you said recovering inflation has really been the order of the day but as we go through the renewals and we sort of establish inflationary increases that keep us whole very quickly we drop back in to our ability to manage cost and drive efficiency which should allow us of it does allow us to convert that inflation in to net pricing to the extent to which we compete at the market and this precisely why we implement and have advantage and the logistics advantages we have Battle Red Frac of the Future and that’s what conspires to deliver our exit rates in excess 20%.
Our next question comes from Doug Becker of Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.
Your line is now open.
Mark you mentioned Europe Africa/ CIS would be relatively flat in the fourth quarter wanted to confirm that this is for revenues as well as margins.
And then just get a little additional color on the growth or just how that region grows revenues and margins next year given that North Sea revenues are likely down and it would be challenge just to keep Russian revenues flat.
The answer is it does relate to both yes revenues and margins.
I mean typically you might see margins climb up a bit on the back of some level of direct sales completion tool sales things like that.
But I think this quarter given where we are seeing some of the softness particularly the Norwegian sector the North Sea in Q4 we are expecting it to be more flat to Q3 on both the revenue and the margin side.
And for next year? It’s a little early to know for next year where it’s going to go.
I mean obviously everything that we are trying to do across the board is to improve margins by cutting cost and things like that.
As we look forward to next year I think we do see some continued softness in the Norwegian sector and the North Sea.
Russia as I said on the call will likely be hopefully we are working to be flat year-over-year on an overall basis and we’ll have Libya’s down for the count right now so it’s difficult to forecast when that will be.
But when you look at other markets across Europe Africa and CIS you know the Caspian continues to do very well.
When you look at sub-Saharan Africa itself we had a very good year we expect that will continue to grow on the back of mature field projects there.
And Continental Europe for us is doing exceedingly well right now and we expect that that will go up as well.
So as we go in to the year while a still little bit early in the planning cycle I would say we are still expecting it to be up and with that we are continuing to leverage incremental margins that are higher than current margins and so we are expecting margins to continue to decline in that area as well even though it might be able but less in the Middle East/Asia.
And our final question comes from Waqar Syed of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is now open.
Mark you’ve promised this 500 basis points kind of margin improvement through the course of the years from internal [miles] Frac of the Future and HALvantage.
How much of that has already been realized and what is left for the coming years.
I would tell you that our goal was to get a 200 basis point improvement in 2014.
As of the day we have accomplished that objective.
We had hoped that it would be for the entire year Q3 we didn’t quite get there but we were very close.
If it hadn’t been for some of logistics challenges that we had in the month of July we would have indeed had hit that target.
So as we look forward we are comfortable with where we are at but I can tell you that really on the face of Battle Red we still got a long way to go.
All of our systems are in place we’ve been working out a lot of the kinks in that process but a lot of the upsights from that project are still in front of us.
On the Frac to the Future side we are only still quarter deployed.
We got a long way to go in terms of achieving that.
So we are going to continue to work a very very focused and determine lead to make sure that we capture all that upsight.
So as we sit today we feel very good about our progression and let us know from our standpoint no retreat from our objective of getting 500 basis points over the next couple of years.
And them I may have missed that before but could you quantify the impact of Gulf of Mexico on the D&amp;E margins and revenues for the quarter.
I don’t know if we could quantify it overall for D&amp;E but I’d say that the Gulf of Mexico the loop current issue probably caused us about a penny in the quarter.
At this time I would like to turn the call back to management for any closing comments.
So thanks Sam.
I want to thank everybody for your participation today and Sam you can go ahead and close the call.
Thank you sir.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today’s conference.
This does conclude today’s program you may all disconnect.
Everyone have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Halliburton’s Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today’s conference Kelly Youngblood Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and welcome to the Halliburton fourth quarter 2014 conference call.
Today’s call is being webcast and a replay would be available on Halliburton's website for seven days.
Joining me today are Dave Lesar CEO; Christian Garcia Acting CFO; and Jeff Miller President.
Some of our comments today may include forward-looking statements reflecting Halliburton's views about future events.
These matters involve risk and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to materially differ from our forward-looking statements.
These risks are discussed in Halliburton’s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2013 Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30 2014 recent current reports on Form 8-K and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason.
Our comments today include non-GAAP financial measures reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in our fourth quarter press release which can be found on our website.
Unless otherwise noted in our discussion today we will be excluding the impact of restructuring charges and Baker Hughes’ acquisition related cost taken in the fourth quarter of 2014.
In our prepared remarks today Dave will provide a brief update on our progress related to the pending Baker Hughes acquisition.
However the purpose of the call today is to review our quarterly financial and operational results and our outlook for 2015.
We ask that you please keep your questions focused on those matters.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Dave.
Dave.
Thank you Kelly and good morning everyone.
While the market is certainly tougher out there today and I will discuss that in a minute I do want to begin with a few of our key accomplishments in 2014.
First I'm very proud to say that we delivered industry leading total company revenue growth and returns in 2014.
We finished the year with revenues of nearly $33 billion and operating income of $5 billion.
Both of which are new records for the company.
Leading the improvement was North America with revenue growth of 16% and profit growth of 23% followed by the Eastern Hemisphere with revenue and profit growth of 10% and 12% respectively.
This was also a record year for both of our divisions where 12 of our 13 product lines set new all-time highs.
From an operating income perspective we achieved new full year records in our Completion Tools Multi-Chem Drill Bits and Baroid product lines.
I highlight this performance because you want to head into any industry downturn starting from an extremely strong financial and operating platform and that’s certainly is where we are performing today.
And finally during the fourth quarter we announced the definitive agreement to acquire Baker Hughes.
We believe this combination will create a bellwether oilfield services company a stronger more diverse organization with an unsurpassed depth and breadth of services.
We are excited about this transaction and the benefits it will provide the shareholders customers and other stakeholders of both companies.
Similarly employees at all levels in both organizations are excited about creating a new industry leader and the opportunities they have is part of a larger company.
We've also heard from many of our customers who have expressed enthusiasm about the combination those who see the broader cost effective offerings that we will be able to provide.
And especially those who are looking for a compelling alternative to their current incumbent in parts of the world or individually ourselves and Baker have only a small footprint.
We are continuing to highlight for our customers the benefits that this combination will deliver to them.
We have formed an integration team lead by Mark McCollum which includes representatives both companies.
Mark and his team have already hit the ground running to develop a day one strategy and an ongoing integration plan which we believe will deliver the nearly $2 billion in annual cost synergies we discussed in our previous announcement.
Now I'm not naïve how hard it is to put two companies together.
It’s damn hard.
But you know Mark and you know his excellent track record on delivering on the commitments that he makes to you.
And I'm confident that we will achieve our integration goals with him in the lead.
On the regulatory front we filed the initial Form S-4 with the Securities and Exchange Commission and are proceeding expediently with all the antitrust filings.
We continue to expect that we will complete the transaction in the second half of 2015.
We look forward to realizing these strategic and financial benefits inherent in this combination to create greater value for our combined shareholders.
I want to clear that we remain committed to seeing this deal through despite the current macro headwinds facing the industry.
In fact as we continue to analyze the potential value creation opportunities of the combination we believe the transaction is even more compelling today than we when we announced it.
I would also like to congratulate the Baker Hughes employees for delivering on an outstanding quarter with record financial results.
This is clear evidence to me of the capabilities of this organization and their continued focus on supporting their customers during this period of transition.
So all in all 2014 was a historic year for Halliburton as we stayed focused on our returns executing on our key strategies around unconventionals deepwater and mature fields.
Our strategies have worked are working and we intend to stay the course.
Now let me discuss what we are seeing in the market today and our prospects and challenges for the coming year.
Later Christian will cover our fourth quarter results.
Obviously commodity pricing has dropped dramatically over the last several months with oil prices now at levels not seen since early 2009.
The North America rig count and activity levels held up with most of the fourth quarter as customers executed against the reminder of their 2014 budgets.
However over the last 60 days the U.S.
land rig count has fallen by 250 rigs or close to 15%.
Capital expenditure budgets from our customers remain fluid but so far an average have been reduced 25% to 30% as they adjust their spending to operate within their cash flows in response to a continued drop in commodity prices.
As a result we expect activity declines for North America land to accelerate further in the first quarter impacting all of the key liquids basins.
What is creating even more uncertainty with the service industry is that many customers have continue to revise down their capital budgets to further capital reduction announcements.
This makes is difficult to size your business in today's U.S.
market in particular because it is such a fast moving target.
So while we did not experienced price weakness during the fourth quarter price discount discussions with customers did begin in the fourth quarter and have accelerated over the last past several weeks and price reductions are now occurring across all product lines.
Now we expect pricing concessions to be less severe when compared to previous cycles and therefore I believe our decremental margins should be lower.
That is because our margin improvement this cycle was largely driven by our focus on gaining efficiencies and getting increased labor input cost recovered more quickly not through net pricing increases.
This up cycle did not last long enough for us to see the kinds of net pricing that would have enabled margins to recover to historically strong levels.
Therefore less pricing erosion will be needed to eventually reduce service capacity if market weakness persists.
Based on our experience in previous downturns we expect that it will take a couple of quarters to see how the interplay of pricing declines volume reductions and equipment efficiency deterioration plays out relative to our ability to lower labor and input cost and to right size the organization and therefore reach an equilibrium in the market.
The first quarter of any severe downturn is almost always the most challenging quarter to predict because pricing concessions usually impact our results in real time.
Volume declines can be erratic as customer’s rig plans are uncertain and can change daily.
Then there is typically a delay in realizing input cost savings from our suppliers.
There is two reasons for this.
One discussions with vendors are dependent on them truly believing we have a reduction in ongoing activity levels before we can have the kinds of tough renegotiations that results in significant input cost reductions.
Second there is a timing issue as to the expenses that flow through inventory like sand propane chemicals and cement.
It takes a while to see lower input pricing fully reflected in your average inventory cost because you have to work off your higher priced inventory.
Next headcount adjustments don't follow directly from pricing concession as you still need the crews to do the work.
Headcount adjustments do however follow volume reductions.
Therefore there is a lag in getting labor costs out as activity declines.
And finally the impact of a large rig count reduction on 24-hour operations and its inherent efficiency is hard to predict as customers slow down activity in many different ways.
But eventually these moving parts all settle out and we reach some sort of equilibrium.
In this environment we would expect to see most of our margin degradation occurring over the first couple of quarters and more margin stability in the back half of the year.
Now in this very uncertain averment we believe Halliburton's more efficient crews and differentiated technologies are best suited to outperform.
Additionally being aligned with the right customers those with assets in the sweet spot of the reservoir becomes more important as we expect to see those customers continue to work through the cycle.
But we have to be real about it.
The North America market is going to see volatility and pain for a few quarters.
However in this scenario I like our chances.
Now moving to international we started to see the impact of lower commodity prices during the fourth quarter.
Declining oil prices have caused our customers to reduce their budgets and defer several of their new projects particularly around offshore exploration.
In 2015 we anticipate headwinds across all of our international regions.
Middle East/Asia will likely be the most resilient followed by Latin America.
And finally Europe Africa CIS is expected to see the sharpest decline.
Let me talk about each individually.
Middle East/Asia is expected to be the best performing region for the company in 2015 as recent project awards in Saudi Arabia Iraq the UAE and Kuwait are all anticipated to move forward.
However we expect Malaysia and Australia and other markets across the region to be impacted by reduced customer spending and delayed projects.
In Latin America we currently expect to see unconventional activity levels in Argentina continue to grow along with the startup of our new integrated asset management project in Ecuador.
However we believe lower activity levels in Mexico and Colombia will more than offset the higher growth in these markets.
Europe Africa/CIS is expected to experience significant activity declines across the entire region with the most vulnerable areas being the North Sea Russia and Angola.
In addition Russia and Norway also are experiencing significant currency weakness.
So when you net out the international regions we expect to see year-on-year decline.
But we believe we will outperform spending predictions indicated in the third-party surveys that are out there today.
Later Jeff will discuss some of the specific actions we're taking to adjust our cost structure to the market conditions.
I can tell you that we will do what we have to do we know what buttons to push and levers to pull and we will do so.
I will say that similar to previous cycles we will protect our market share and expect to see customers focused on our highly efficient service model.
As our customers struggle with cash flows they will be very focused on optimization and gaining higher levels of efficiency and I expect that this will bode very well for Halliburton.
Our management team has been through previous downturns and we intend to emerge from this cycle a much stronger company on a relative basis.
During the fourth quarter we took a $129 million restructuring charge as a first step in preparing for these market changes.
And as Jeff will cover in a few minutes there is likely to be more in the first quarter.
Now for competitive purposes we're not going to lay out our detailed strategy for addressing this business environment.
However in the short-term we're putting initiatives in place not only to temper the impact of the activity decline on our financial performance but also to ensure that we're in an optimal position to take advantage of the market's eventual recovery.
The length of any downturn is very difficult to predict but as you know we are in a great financial position right now with strong free cash flow.
We will make adjustments as activity declines and our intention is to look beyond the cycle and continue to execute our strategic initiatives.
I believe that this is the right thing to do for the health of our business over a complete business cycle.
As I stated we've been through these cycles before and we know what to do and we will execute on that experience.
The bottom line we have historically outperformed the market in North America during downturns and we have no reason to believe that this downturn will be any different.
Now let me turn it over to Christian to provide more details on our financial performance.
Christian? Thanks Dave and good morning everyone.
It has been a while but I'm glad to be back on the call and looking forward to be working with all of you again.
Let me begin with an overview of our fourth quarter results and later on let me discuss our financial outlook.
Total company revenue of $8.8 billion was a record quarter for Halliburton with operating income of $1.4 billion.
We achieved record quarterly revenues in both of our divisions and our Middle East/Asia region set a new record for both revenue and operating income.
From a product line perspective we had record revenues in the fourth quarter in Production Enhancement Completion Tools Drill Bits Artificial Lift and Consulting and Project Management while new operating income records were set by Multi-Chem Drill Bits and Landmark.
North America revenue was flat sequentially in-line with the average quarterly rig count.
Operating income was modestly higher over the same period despite the impact of seasonal fourth quarter weather and holiday downtime.
Fourth quarter margins benefited from the continued roll out of our Battle Red and Frac of the Future initiatives as well as efficiencies we're seeing from recent enhancements to our logistics network.
Service pricing was stable during the fourth quarter as activity levels remained robust but are expected to deteriorate in the coming quarters.
In the Eastern Hemisphere we experienced a modest level of sequential revenue growth which resulted in a new quarterly record despite the headwinds experienced in our Europe Africa/CIS region.
Operating income came in flat compared to the third quarter.
In the Middle East/Asia region revenue increased by 10% compared to the third quarter and operating income was up 29% over the same period.
Our fourth quarter margins came in just under 21% as a result of seasonal year-end software and equipment sales as well as higher integrated project-related activity in Saudi Arabia Iraq India and Indonesia.
Switching to Europe Africa/CIS fourth-quarter revenue and operating income declined 8% and 35% respectively compared to the prior quarter as we experienced significant reduction in activity levels in the North Sea Russia and Angola.
Declining oil prices and project economics caused our customers to reduce activity levels in the first several of their new projects.
Russia and Norway results were also significantly affected by currency weakness.
In Latin America revenue increased 3% sequentially while operating income declined 4% compared to the previous quarter.
The revenue increase was a result of year-end software sales increased Artificial Lift activity in Venezuela and higher activity levels across the majority of our product lines in Colombia.
Operating income was negatively impacted during the quarter from mobilization costs in Brazil and budget constraints in Mexico.
Now I will address some additional financial items.
As a result of the market decline that has primarily impacted our international business.
We incurred $129 million of restructuring charges in the fourth quarter consisting of severance-related costs as well as asset write-offs.
The majority of these adjustments related to our Eastern Hemisphere business.
Our corporate and other expense totaled $83 million for the quarter excluding $17 million in costs related to the Baker Hughes acquisition.
We anticipate that our corporate expenses for the first quarter will be approximately $90 million excluding acquisition-related costs and this will be the new run rate for 2015.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was approximately 27% which was lower than expected as a result of Congress approving the Federal Research and Experimentation tax credit in late December.
As we go forward in 2015 we are expecting the first quarter effective tax rate to be approximately 28% to 29%.
Currently we anticipate that our capital expenditures for 2015 will be essentially in-line with 2014 and expect depreciation and amortization to be approximately $2.4 billion for the year.
I know this may surprise some of you but let me lay out our approach.
As Dave mentioned our objective is to look beyond the cycle and continue to invest in certain strategic technology such as the Frac of the Future while retiring older more costly equipment.
As we have previously discussed our Q-10 pumps support our surface efficiency strategy that will enable us to lower operators' costs while at the same time protect our margins against deteriorating industry conditions.
As you know we manufacture our own equipment which gives us the utmost flexibility in this market and can adjust our spend accordingly based on our visibility.
Turning to our operational outlook the severity of the activity decline in the coming quarters continues to be unclear preventing us from providing specific guidance.
But let me give you some thoughts around the first quarter of 2015.
For the first quarter of 2015 our results will be subject to the same type of seasonality that you've seen in previous years.
Landmark completions and direct sales activities typically fall-off in the first quarter as those businesses benefit historically from customers' year-end budgets.
Our business will also be impacted by weather-related seasonality that occurs in the Rockies North Sea and Russia.
In the first quarter of 2014 this seasonality impacted our results by approximately 22%.
However this year we believe the decline will be exacerbated by the macro headwinds currently faced by the industry.
In North America the U.S.
rig count is already down 9% from the fourth quarter average and the rate of decline has accelerated in the last two weeks.
We expect to see activity levels continue to drop throughout the first quarter accompanied by price reductions.
As Dave mentioned the beginning of a down cycle is typically the most challenging but we believe that our sequential decrementals in the first quarter will be less severe than what we have previously experienced in the prior downturn.
We finished 2014 in a solid financial position.
We continue to have the best returns in our peer group.
We reduced working capital by seven days since our Analyst Day and gave back 33% of our cash flow from operations for our shareholders in 2014.
In 2015 we will continue to focus on working capital and returns and we will live within our cash flows.
We will also continue to adjust our cost structure and currently anticipate that we will be incurring restructuring charges for severance and other actions that we are contemplating in the first quarter.
Now I will turn the call over to Jeff for an update on our strategy.
Jeff? Thank you Christian and good morning everyone.
Today I would like to begin my comments by discussing the current market environment and what we plan to do.
Although oil demand growth expectations for 2015 have weakened it is still growth.
Demand is forecast to increase by an estimated 900 000 barrels per day.
Keep in mind the steep decline curves are still at work.
We estimate the average annual production decline rates for unconventionals in North America are in excess of 30% and much higher in some areas.
Depending on the ultimate trajectory of the rig count declines and the backlog of well completions we believe that North America crude production could begin to respond during the back half of the year.
Internationally decline rates have become more pronounced in several key markets over the last couple of years.
In areas like Angola Norway and Russia historical growth has given way to net production declines in the last year.
While decline rates in markets like Mexico and India have actually accelerated.
Consequently we believe that any sustained period of under investment due to reduced operator spending could lead to an increase in commodity prices.
And this largely ignores the possibility of short-term disruptions due to geopolitical issues.
So the long-term fundamentals of our business are still strong.
But it is clear we are heading into an activity downturn.
We can look at previous cycles for insight and while history doesn't always repeat sometimes it rhymes.
In North America we're looking at the rig count decline relative to past downturns.
After a plateau through much of the fourth quarter the rig count has dropped sharply over the last two months and is already down 15% from early December.
This trajectory is similar to both the 2001-2002 cycle and the 2008-2009 cycle.
And in those cases we experienced a rapid correction to the rig count going from peak to trough over a three quarter period.
Over the past several years we've taken key steps to reduce our underlying cost profile.
Steps such as deploying Frac of the Future equipment streamlining our field operations through Battle Red and vertically integrating portions of our logistics network.
For these reasons we're confident that we are better prepared than our competitors to execute through this coming cycle.
In the international markets our projects and contracts tend to be longer term in nature than in North America.
Historically this has resulted in reduced year-on-year volatility.
However nearly all of our customers are currently reassessing their priorities and looking for efficiency and even more so in the offshore space.
It's important to note that this group has been quick to react to decline in commodity prices with the first moves being made in mid-2014 at sub $100 oil.
Although projects already underway are continuing to move forward generally speaking we're seeing significant reductions in new work being tendered and projects that can be delayed are moving to the right.
As we evaluate service intensity for our international markets we keep a close eye on revenue per rig which helps us understand the overall health of the business.
Although this metric took a step backwards during the 2009 economic downturn we've seen consistent improvement over the last four years.
In fact we're in a better position now than going into the last cycle.
Our 2014 revenue per rig is more than 20% higher than in 2008.
For Halliburton this expansion represents not only the value of technical content in complex wells but also our ability to expand our footprint in underserved geographies as well as in underutilized product lines.
We believe this demonstrates the success of our growth strategies deepwater mature fields and unconventionals and positions us to outperform through the next cycle.
As Christian said the midterm outlook is unclear.
But whether this cycle ends in a sharp V or takes time to recover our strategy will be consistent.
First things first we'll control the things we control.
We've already taken initial steps to address headcount internationally.
And as activity in North America begins to fall more sharply we will make similar adjustments here as well.
Between actions already taken in the fourth quarter and actions we anticipate taking by the end of the first quarter we expect our headcount adjustments to be in line with our primary competitors.
We intend to minimize discretionary spending in our operations.
As operators have requested price discussions with us we've opened dialogues with our suppliers around both volume pricing and anticipate reducing our input cost profile.
We'll continue to manufacture our Frac of the Future equipment and plan to take advantage of the opportunity to accelerate the retirement of older fleets which operate at a higher cost especially in 24-hour operations.
The value we have seen from the rollout of our Q-10 pumps has truly exceeded our original expectations.
And despite the current market conditions we feel it's the right decision for our shareholders to move forward with this initiative.
Frac of the Future not only gets the job done with 25% less capital and offers maintenance savings of up to 50% an optimized Frac of the Future spread running under the right efficiency model can complete a well more than 50% faster than legacy equipment.
And it does all of this with 35% fewer people on location.
Frac of the Future represents about 30% of our North American fleet today and we expect that number to be closer to 50% by year end.
Second service quality really matters and even more so in this environment.
And our ability to execute more efficiently lowers non-productive times for our customers and reduces their effective cost per barrel.
Due to the nature of the work that we do today large complex shale wells in North America increasingly technical offshore work and a growing base of integrated projects on the international stage we believe that our superior execution and best-in-class technical solutions will allow us to maintain utilization and outperform our peers.
As the management team this isn't our first downturn.
We're talking to our customers every day and it's safe to say that budget expectations are a moving target.
Accordingly we've given ourselves flexibility inside of our capital budget to right size quickly to whatever the market gives us.
I'm very pleased with our management team and the strategies we have in place and believe that we're well positioned to outperform in the downturn and to ensure that we take advantage of the recovery up cycle and come out a much stronger company.
Now let me turn the call back over to Dave for his closing comments.
Dave? Thanks Jeff.
Industry prospects will continue to be weak and the coming quarters and the ultimate depth and length of this cycle remains uncertain.
However we are confident that our management team is prepared to meet the challenges that are forthcoming and we will take the opportunity to strengthen the long-term health of our franchise.
We will selectively cut costs and at the same time continue to invest where we can improve our competitive position.
Whatever scenario you think may happen we have the people technology and experience to outperform the market.
We have demonstrated this to you for the past several years.
Whatever the level of industry activity we expect to get more than our share of it.
Now before I open it up to questions I want to let you know that due to other business commitments I will not be participating in our first quarter conference call.
Jeff will be providing market comments on my behalf and I will return for our second quarter call.
Now let's open it up for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of David Anderson with Barclays.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning Dave.
Good morning.
Good morning Dave.
So Dave first off you must be very happy to see the strong numbers posted by Baker this morning.
Hopefully they can keep it up as you close this deal by the end of the year.
But as we all kind of stare out at the unknowns of the next couple quarters I would love to hear your perspective what you've seen so far from your customers in North America.
We're getting a sense this is happening a lot faster than we have seen in past downturns.
Perhaps it is because E&amp;P's are struggling with where the oil prices will settle out.
I just want to know if you agree with that assessment and perhaps you could give us some insight into their thinking and how that is shaping your view on how this market responds over the next couple quarters.
Yeah let me let Jeff take a shot at it and then I'll comment as necessary.
Yeah thanks Dave.
I mean the -- we're talking to our customers every day.
And of course initially the discussions have been around reductions in the 25% to 30% range.
However as commodities continue to move they are all revisiting their budgets.
I mean arguably for the next couple of quarters this will be -- North America will look a bit like a chocolate mess in terms of where it winds up.
But the -- most customers are living within their cash flows and similarly that's what we are going to do.
But we're confident that we're positioned in the right places and in the fairways of the right plays to where we will be very effective as we work through this with them.
Yeah Dave let me just add a little bit to that.
I think the -- your question about the speed of the pullback by our customers is a bit unusual and I think first of all they're worried about their cash flow because of lower commodity prices.
And I also think they are worried about where their next dollar might come from if they start living outside of their cash flows.
So in my view it sort of exacerbates the speed by which this is happening.
But I also think it accelerate the time where they sort of know what they can spend this year they know how they are going to spend it they know who they are going to spend it with.
And we can get to that equilibrium point that I referenced in my remarks.
So now Dave a key part of your strategy over the last several years has been aligning with the strongest customers.
You clearly did that in the natural gas downturn and this is -- the same strategy here with oil.
These are the customers that have the best economics in their acreage.
I was wondering if you could talk about some of the steps that you think these stronger guys are taking.
Are you seeing kind of high grading of drilling yet? Is it CapEx shifting amongst certain product lines? Are you starting to see them use their scale to get more pricing concessions through the supply chain? Can you just help me understand how maybe -- your customer base is clearly differentiated how are they responding differently or are they yet? Yeah I think -- good question.
In terms of what they are doing and we are -- let me just confirm we are aligned with what we call the fairway players particularly in North America.
And our view of a fairway player is one who is in a strong financial position and has a low leasehold cost or are in the sweet spots of these various reservoirs.
So the discussions with them today are okay let's high grade back to the places where we can produce the lowest cost per BOE even in this pricing environment.
Let's have to remain service company and operator very flexible in how we're approaching this market in terms of where we're going to put rigs up how many rigs we're going to have there.
We went to partner with you in terms of the service capabilities you have.
But be essentially aware that we're still in a commodity driven world and we may have to be flexible and change.
We can do that.
We've got a good management team we've got a good footprint we've got good technology and it's not a fun environment to be in but it's one we can easily handle.
Our next question comes from the line of Jud Bailey with Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I wanted to -- you talked about how quickly your customers are moving much more quickly than in prior cycles.
Could you maybe talk a little about how that's impacting your discussions -- and you talked about it a little bit -- but how it's impacting your discussions with your vendors? And maybe how quickly you think you could get price concessions? And do you think you can get price reductions on the supply chain side in-line with what you are giving to your customers? Yeah thank you Jud.
Those discussions have already begun but I think as Dave referenced in his early remarks there is a bit of a disconnect in the timing of seeing price concessions with customers and working that both through the vendor community and also through our inventory.
I think that is one of the reasons I say we look out a quarter or two.
That said we've got a terrific procurement organization and we have -- we're already in discussion with a number of vendors and we continue to see this progress.
Again these are steps that we have taken before and it's really a matter of connecting sort of what's happening in the marketplace to the vendor community but I think that happens initially quite quickly.
Okay.
And then just to kind of switch gears and look internationally.
And Christian commented a little bit on this but it want to make sure I am thinking about it correctly when I think about Europe Africa/CIS and the types of revenue declines you experienced in the fourth quarter.
You take away some of the seasonality and your typical year-end product sales.
Can you help us think about that market in terms of revenue progression in the first quarter or second quarter? And what are the moving parts on what's going to be the biggest weakness in that market? Jud let me approach it internationally in total.
As I mentioned we're not going to provide specific guidance but kind of give you some help here.
If you look at seasonal decline that we see in our international markets it usually declines -- typically declines about 10% -- 9% to 10% for Q1.
Clearly there's going to be macro headwinds that would push that at a higher decline rate.
If that is the case then we will basically see a steeper decline in the operating income.
As an example last year we saw a 300 basis points decline from Q4 to Q1 for our international markets and we expect to see a little bit higher than that this time around.
Now I'm not going to provide guidance in any of the sort of regions but you're absolutely right Europe Africa/CIS will probably have a higher decline than Middle East or Latin America.
Our next question comes from the line of Bill Herbert with Simmons &amp; Company.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Dave and Jeff and Christian so I think it's plausible that given the rationale that you laid out that your decremental margins are going to be less severe than they were in 2009.
I'm just curious if we can bracket sort of a plausible targeted range.
I mean you did close to 60% decrementals in 2009 I'm just curious as to what you guys envision as a reasonable target as we come into 2015 with regard to decrementals in North America.
I mean should they start with a four just to throw that out there? Right.
So Bill to answer you we don’t know because the – the reason is we don’t know the depth the length of the cycle.
Okay.
So what we can tell you is in Q1 if you look at 2008 2009 the rig count drop in Q1 of 2009 was about 30% our revenue decline was 25% of that line.
Right.
We had the 1 000 basis points decline in Q1.
We just don’t think it’s going to happen in Q1 at least given the visibility that we have currently.
So that’s the only visibility we have.
We are going to do it quarter by quarter and we will update our guidance as we go along throughout the year.
Okay and then secondly more of a conceptual question for Dave.
Dave if you could put your oilfield history and cap on and compare and contrast if you will what you expect to be this downturn in terms of duration versus what we've seen kind of in 2088 2009 the late 90s and the mid-80s.
It sounds like from a duration aspect although you guys have taken pains to say you don’t know whether this is U-shaped or V-shaped.
Our capital spending budget would seem to indicate that you don’t necessarily view this as a protracted multiyear adjustment.
No.
I think Bill that’s right.
I mean if you look at the 2008-2009 that was really a gas driven rig count decline.
What we are seeing today is more of an oil based decline.
If you go back into the late 80s and 90s those actually were probably more oil driven declines at that point in time.
And so I don’t have a crystal ball that will allow me to absolutely predict it.
I know on my experience that you have to invent through these things.
You want to keep your business franchise strong.
And as Christian indicated we are looking at basically a flat capital budget for next year.
But the reality is that a lot of that is going into building out our Q-10 pump system because frankly you guys can shoot me if I didn’t continue to invest in that technology.
It’s a great technology.
It’s a differentiated technology.
It saves not only customer’s money but it saves us operating cost.
So we would be crazy not to push through with the deployment of that and retire the older assets.
The reality is that if we did -- we had pulled back there our capital expenses for next year likely would be going down.
But generally my experience has been stay flexible stay nimble stay strong financially and I think that when we come out of this thing especially when we execute the transaction with Baker we’re going to be a heck of a company and I'm really looking forward to that.
Our next question comes from the line of James West with Evercore ISI.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning guys.
Good morning James.
Hey Dave or Jeff on international side obviously you’re going to have conversations.
You are having conversations about pricing.
But my sense is this cycle we never saw that big inflection point for international pricing it was more of a market share game.
So do you actually have that much pricing not to give up or am I misreading this because lot of the CapEx costs are coming offshore where pricing is better? Thanks James.
This is Jeff.
No you are reading that correctly.
I mean we really never saw net pricing throughout the last cycle internationally.
In fact as you describe most of the margin gains were volume driven and really cost absorption over that period of time.
That said we are working with our customers around efficiency approaches how can we lower total cost of operations for them and this really gets back to our basic strategy which is around reducing uncertainty and increasing reliability in operations.
And we've made terrific gains in non-productive time over the last couple of years and that’s a differentiator for us.
Is there an urgency on the part of our customer base? Are they expressing urgency for you to go ahead and get the Baker deal closed so you could provide even better efficiencies? Yeah I think James as Kelly said at the beginning we really don’t want to and can't answer any questions related to Baker other than what we had in our prepared remarks.
Our next question comes from the line of Angie Sedita with UBS.
Your line is open.
Great.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Christian could you -- I mean you gave us the color on Q1 on international markets as you looked at it seasonally Q4 over Q1 on a normal year.
Can you do the same for us on North America? Yeah so North America as I mentioned rig count is already down 9% so far.
I don’t know may reach the decline in the mid-teens for the whole quarter.
Well assuming that projection as correct we would expect a revenue decline to probably slightly less than this -- than that percentage based on our past experience.
And as I mentioned the decrementals in 2008-2009 we don’t think we are going to do better than that.
Okay.
Okay fair enough.
And Dave or Mark can you talk about the steps you are taking both internationally and in North America to protect your market share given that your largest fear has been quite vocal on your proposed merger and the opportunities that they see.
Yeah let me answer that one Angie.
I have heard the word distraction I have heard other comments about what's going to happen.
You got to remember we've been asbestos we've been through asbestos we've been through Macondo we've been through the Iraq war and none of those distracted us from making sure our business franchise remains strong.
We've been through ups and downs that didn’t distract us.
So I guess my view is you know us.
We are the execution company.
We are not going to get distracted through this.
This is a tough market but we've been through these kinds of things before.
I've got a really strong management team.
We are going to focus on maintaining our market share.
We’re going to focus on improving our business franchise and clearly we’re not going to get distracted.
I'm not going to permit it to happen.
So I guess that would be my sort of editorial comment on it.
Our next question comes from the line of Kurt Hallead with RBC Capital Market.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning.
Thanks for all that color.
I just wanted to dive in a little bit deeper into Brazil for example given lot of challenges that are going down there with corruption scandal.
I know you guys have a contract shift taking place down in Brazil.
I want to get a sense as to -- you mentioned Mexico what's your outlook for Brazil as you go into 2015? Yes.
Thanks Kurt.
The outlook is we will do those things that we've described.
We expect to drilling contracts signed in first quarter.
We should have our wireline contract sort of reupped in Q1 and our testing contract mobilized into Q1.
The broadly outlook however is we still that market declining to a certain degree in terms of activity and beyond that really don’t want to give any guidance expect to say that we've described some of those markets as looking a little bit stronger and certainly Brazil and Mexico are likely to be headwinds.
Right.
And then beyond the next follow-up say beyond the Rouble depreciation dynamic in Russia what kind of activity changes have you seen there? Yeah in Russia I mean obviously we still got a couple of things going on.
First the sanctions are in place and so that’s having an impact on our business you mentioned currency.
And then around mature field activity there may be some improvement there.
But overall the issues around sanctions and what not I think are a bit of a drag on the business overall.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeff Tillery with Tudor Pickering.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning.
Could you give us some color as you see on the domestic completion activity there has been increasing anecdotes around wells being drilled but not completed.
Could you just talk about is that having – is that noticeable yet and how do you see that playing out over the coming quarters.
We've worked through year we saw tightening in capacity things that I described.
So there is some amount of that out there.
But I would really take a broadly view to say that our customers are managing within cash flow and so I think that behavior may be different for different customers.
But broadly there will be a drawback to the best parts of the plays focused on efficiency and really those strategies that we talk about that we've built our franchise around which is lowest cost per BOE custom chemistry and delivering sub service insight.
So I think those things are at play.
But I don’t necessarily see a large inventory building of uncompleted wells.
Yeah I think -- this is Dave.
I mean you've just got to think through -- put yourself in the operator’s mind especially one who is concerned about cash flow.
It would be crazy to drill a well and then put it in inventory because you've got cash flow out but not cash flow coming in.
So I think the decision is very quickly going to go to do your drill well? If you drill a well you’re going to complete it.
If you’re not going to complete that there is no sense in drilling it and that’s the dialog that’s going on now.
My second question is unrelated.
You talked a lot about -- there is lot of questions around North American supply chain Europe Africa CIS you've talked about that being likely the worst region in 2015.
Could you just talk about cost structure and flexibility in that region and things you’re doing to address that? Yeah thanks.
So we've taken some steps early in Q4 around headcount so we are reacting quickly to what we see there.
As we described the timing around supplier cost reductions and getting those in place don’t sync up perfectly.
But for the visibility that we have we are taking actions to address that.
Our next question comes from line of James Wicklund with Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Good morning guys.
You guys always gain market share in the down market and you've done a fabulous job this morning explaining why.
But I just kind of have an industry question.
I remember when I was running an operation in Africa granted it was long time ago.
And I have to cut everybody by 15% and I didn’t really care what their margins were they just had to cut their prices to me by 15%.
Their margins or costs where their problem.
Has that changed? Jeff you alluded to the fact that since we -- some of these companies don’t have the margin to give up that pricing won't go down this much? Jim I'm glad you are not my customer anymore.
I think the reality is that you -- a customer may take that approach say we want to cut our cost by 15%.
But in today's world and really today's shale world in the U.S.
and let’s say the offshore market in Africa differentiated technologies still make a difference.
And having that technology having the efficiency having the people on the ground ends being sort of what you sell to that customer.
Customers also know that in reality -- in reality they know who they want to use for particular products and services in various parts of the world and generally they move to make sure that when they go through a cost reduction after like this that they keep the strong players strong.
Our next question comes from line of Waqar Syed with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Thank you very much.
Dave my question relates to service intensity in the U.S.
shale.
You were seeing strong service intensity increase throughout last year do you expect that trend to continue? Do you expect people to have more frac stages and then use more sand per frac stage? Or do you see that abetting with where the sand price -- sand costs are right now? Yeah.
Thanks Waqar.
The behavior around the wells we expect to continue.
I mean what we've seen is consistently improving productivity based on the things we talk about all the time so custom chemistry the application of your technology like AccessFrac and rock firm and then also sand volume.
So while overall activity likely falls off the activity that’s executed is going to be executed with absolutely the best technology and well bore design and frac design to deliver the lowest cost per BOE.
So I expect that continues.
And so previous you were seeing about 15% per quarter kind of change in sand volumes used per well if I may say.
How do you see that trending going forward? Well we actually in Q4 a year-on-year increase of about 46% sand on a per well basis so that was up sequentially another 5% or 6% again on a per well basis.
So I expect that at some point better design better frac design will moderate the volume of sand it’s not internment.
But nevertheless I would expect the demand -- not the demand but on a per stage basis volumes to remain high.
Yeah and let me just make sort of one last comment on sort of increasing volumes is that more and more of our customers are now looking at what is the impact of these large volumes jobs on offset wells.
And this concept of well bashing is what's it’s called where basically pumping enormous volumes into one well bore is it bashing adjacent well bores and actually declining or decreasing the volumes you are getting out of it in total.
So I think as the volumes continue to increase customers and the service industry Halliburton in particular are starting to look at sort of the signs of what's happening down hole two to make sure that what you are running up with is an optimal outcome and not just accelerating greatly production from one well but impacting that in adjacent wells.
That does conclude today's question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the call back over to management for closing remarks.
Yeah.
Thank you Kay [ph].
So I would like to wrap the call up with just a couple of comments.
And as we've said there is a tremendous amount of uncertainty in the market but we've seen this before.
And we always take basically a two-pronged approach which is first we control what we control and defend our margins within our cash flows.
And the second is that we look through the cycle and as in the past emerge a stronger company in the recovery.
Thank you and we look forward to speaking with you next quarter.
Kay [ph] you can take from there.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today’s conference.
This does conclude today’s program you may all disconnect.
Everyone have a good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Halliburton First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today’s conference Kelly Youngblood Halliburton Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Good morning and welcome to the Halliburton first quarter 2015 conference call.
Today’s call is being webcast and a replay will be available on Halliburton's website for seven days.
Joining me today are Jeff Miller President; Christian Garcia Acting CFO; and Mark McCollum Chief Integration Officer.
As mentioned on our last call due to a longstanding business commitment Dave Lesar Halliburton's Chairman and CEO will not be present today but will return for our second quarter call.
Today Jeff will be providing market commentary followed by Christian who will discuss our quarterly financial results and finally Mark will provide an update on our progress relating to the pending Baker Hughes acquisition.
Some of our comments today may include forward-looking statements reflecting Halliburton's views about future events.
These matters involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to materially differ from our forward-looking statements.
These risks are discussed in Halliburton’s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2014 recent current reports on Form 8-K and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason.
Our comments today include non-GAAP financial measures.
Unless otherwise noted in our discussion today we will be excluding the impact of these items.
Additional details and reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in our first quarter press release which can be found on our website.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Jeff.
Thank you Kelly and good morning everyone.
It was a challenging quarter for the service industry which translated into lower activity levels and widespread pricing pressure on a global basis as our customers responded to the impact of reduced commodity prices.
For Halliburton total company revenue of $7.1 billion was a 4% decline compared to the first quarter of 2014 relative to a 19% decline in the worldwide rig count once again representing industry-leading revenue performance.
Operating income declined 28% year-over-year to approximately $700 million driven by North America and Europe/Africa/CIS.
The industry experienced unprecedented decline in the North America drilling activity during the first quarter which significantly impacted our financial results.
US rig count has dropped approximately 50% from the peak in late November and we’re still seeing activity fall off week to week although the pace of decline has slowed.
Looking back over the last several major cycles the speed of this downturn has been historically high.
Because of the lack of available work driven by the rig count decline and the resulting overcapacity and available equipment chasing the work that remains this is an extremely competitive market.
We’re seeing substantial pricing pressure in all of our product lines and the significant amount of service capacity is looking for work.
Service company behavior has fallen really into one of three buckets.
First those who are still running their businesses to make a profit and returns for their investors.
Second those who have decided that covering fixed cost is no longer important and therefore will take work to keep equipment busy and crews intact while operating at a loss.
And third those who are basically working at a price which covers only their cash costs.
Ultimately neither model 2 or 3 is sustainable.
And we believe capacity adjustments are likely in a market like this.
We’re not going to call a bottom but historically it's taken rig count three quarters to move from peak to trough.
Once we see activity stabilized the healing process can begin but it takes time.
Our input costs can then start to catch up with service pricing declines and our efficiency programs and well solutions can start driving margins upwards.
What is not unique about this downturn is the customer service company and supplier behavior is pretty much as you would expect.
What is unique is the speed at which this is happening.
We believe that the operators vendors and service companies who deal most effectively with the velocity of this downturn will be those who profit the most when it turns.
We fully expect Halliburton to be one of those winners and so will the vendors who work with us to get through it.
Outside of North America the international markets were more resilient than the domestic market but were not immune to the impacts of the lower commodity price environment.
The international rig count is down 9% from the peak last July but we’re seeing customers defer new projects most notably in the offshore exploration markets.
Due to the lower cash flows available to operators they are more focused than ever on lowering costs and are asking the oil service companies engineering companies and fabricators to offer solutions including pricing concessions.
We’re working with our customers to improve project economics through technology and improved operating efficiency.
As we discussed last quarter we anticipate headwinds across all of our international regions this year with full year international spending reflecting a mid-teens reduction.
We still expect Middle East/Asia to be the most stable region for the company in 2015 as recent project awards in Saudi Arabia Iraq UAE and Kuwait are anticipated to move forward.
However we expect Malaysia Australia and other markets across the region to be impacted by reduced customer spending and delayed projects.
Europe/Africa/CIS is experiencing significant activity declines across the entire region with the most vulnerable areas being the North Sea Russia and Angola.
In particular the offshore markets are facing extremely challenging economics.
We've already seen significant delays of exploration work in these markets with a number of pending opportunities still at risk as operators work to balance their budgets.
And in Latin America we expect lower activity levels across the region with the largest declines projected in Mexico as a result of budget constraints and Colombia where operators are sizing their programs to live within cash flows.
In addition we anticipate lower revenue resulting from the new Venezuelan exchange rate.
Given the near-term headwinds that we’re seeing globally our focus is on controlling what's within our control.
First after taking a hard look at our global operations in the first quarter we streamlined our business primarily through headcount and asset reductions while not impacting our service delivery model which resulted in a $1.2 billion restructuring charge including a complete write-off of our operations in both Libya and Yemen.
Christian will provide more details later in the call.
Second we’re continuing to work with our suppliers.
As we discussed last quarter there's a delay in realizing cost savings from our suppliers.
Input cost reductions around items like sand and logistics began during the first quarter and we expect to realize more of these cost savings as we move through the remainder of the year.
We’re pleased that many of our key vendors now realize the type of market that we are in and they are working with us to allow us to get our input costs more competitive.
We’re also looking at consolidating our vendor list into fewer companies that we can commit more volume to going forward.
Third we are staying focused on service execution and collaborating with our customers to reduce their well costs.
Fourth we're playing offense.
We're focused on the utilization of our deployed assets and we're defending our market share with key customers.
And finally and most importantly we're still a returns driven organization and where pricing concessions were to push returns below an acceptable threshold we have instead elected to stack equipment including frac lease.
Given the unsustainable prices we've seen some of our competition willing to work for them who would rather save our equipment for better times.
One other thing I need to point out is that in a typical downturn we would've reduced our operating cost structure more than we have done but in anticipation of closing the Baker Hughes acquisition later this year we want to preserve our underlying service delivery platform.
We know we have best-in-class service delivery and keeping this platform in peak condition will allow us to realize our transaction synergies post close.
This means that we're not cutting as deep as we might have done so otherwise.
And consequently we're carrying an elevated cost structure.
While this decision burdens current margins it is clearly the right thing to do in the long run.
As we’ve done in previous downturns we are looking through the cycle and investing capital and strategic programs to maintain the health of the franchise and to position ourselves to be able to accelerate out of the downturn when the market recovers.
This includes investing in key technologies and capabilities that allow us to deliver our value proposition in unconventionals deepwater and mature fields.
As I mentioned previously we're always working closely with customers around the world to help them lower their cost per barrel of oil equivalent.
We approach this in two ways.
First through more efficient and more reliable lower-cost delivery platform and second through technology that reduces uncertainty and makes better wells.
In terms of efficiency this is where innovations like our Frac of the Future with its increased reliability and lower-cost profile become important differentiators.
Our Q-10 pumps support our surface efficiency strategy which will enable us to lower operators’ costs while at the same time protect our margins against deteriorating industry conditions.
This is also where we leverage the scale of our global logistics network and supply chain.
Just as important we’re working with our customers to help them make better wells through subsurface insight and custom chemistry.
Our CoreVault system is a great example of delivering subsurface insight where we’re able to collect multiple core samples during a single trip and preserve 100% of the downhole fluid for analysis.
This accelerates our customers’ reservoir understanding more precisely locate hydrocarbons and helps them fully understand the economic value of their asset.
We’re doing this today in every North American basin and have recently expanded into Europe and Asia-Pacific.
Our CYPHER seismic to stimulation service is gaining traction helping more customers maximize the value of their unconventional assets.
Our CYPHER project count actually increased sequentially even as activity levels declined.
The added projects included both existing customers expanding their programs as well as customers new to the CYPHER platform.
And finally custom chemistry where we are pleased with the expansion of AccessFrac which helps our customers efficiently and effectively stimulate the entire lateral.
In addition to being used in 12 basins around the world AccessFrac is also seeing significant uptick as a refrac solution in North America.
When deploying our proprietary chemical diversion technology in the early unconventional oil wells we’ve seen instances where the estimated ultimate recovery has more than doubled.
There has been a lot of discussion around inventory wells.
Operators choosing to drill but not complete wells and then defer production until commodity prices become more favorable.
Third-party estimates put this number around 4000 wells.
It is our view that although inventory wells can exacerbate the short-term activity declines per completions it essentially defers the revenue opportunity.
When our customers decide to increase activity levels this will be beneficial for Halliburton as they are likely to increase completions in tandem with new well drilling which could accelerate our rate of recovery during the upcycle.
Now before I turn the call over to Christian I want to spend a few minutes on the macro environment.
Over the past several months global demand expectations for 2015 have been consistently revised higher now calling for an increase of over 1 million barrels per day including recent upward revisions for both US and Europe.
On the supply side we’re all watching US production levels very closely given the volume expansions that took place throughout 2013 and 2014.
Recently monthly production estimates have been encouraging however showing significantly lower production growth and actually projecting oil production to be flat to down in the major basins.
In terms of international production non-OPEC estimates continue to be trimmed.
But we see this as an overlooked positive factor.
Comparing the IEA forecast exit rate for 2015 against 2014 key non-OPEC contributors are expected to decline with further reduction expected as a result of declining global rig count.
We view this as ultimately constructive for the prospect of supply-demand equilibrium.
Whether we reach this point in months or quarters Halliburton will continue to take the necessary steps to prepare our global franchise with the eventual recovery and to outperform our competitors.
Further it's our view that North America will continue to be the most adaptable market in terms of addressing well economics through both efficiency models and technology uptake.
One way to look at it is that the US unconventional business is now the lowest cost fast as the market incremental barrel of oil available in the world today.
One thing we’ve helped our unconventional customers prove over the years is that they are smart technically savvy and very adaptable companies and I am confident that this type of market will show that again.
As a result we believe that when the recovery does come North America will respond the quickest and offer the greatest upside and that Halliburton will be best positioned to lead the way.
We’ve been through these cycles before.
We know what to do and we’ll execute on that experience.
Now let me turn the call over to Christian to provide more details on our financial results.
Christian? Thanks Jeff and good morning everyone.
I will begin with an overview of our first-quarter results.
Total company revenue of $7.1 billion represented a 4% decline compared to the first quarter of 2014 while operating income declined 28% to approximately $700 million.
As expected we experienced typical first quarter sequential decline in revenue and margins due to the absence of high year-end software and product sales in the fourth quarter as well as the normal first-quarter weather-related weakness in the North Sea Russia and the Bakken.
The decline this year was obviously exacerbated by the macro headwinds facing the industry.
Now let me compare our geographic results to the first quarter of 2014.
In the Eastern Hemisphere first-quarter revenue was essentially flat and operating income increased 3% over prior year despite activity and pricing headwinds.
We’ve consistently outperformed our competitors in terms of revenue growth over the last few years and we expect that this will be true for the first quarter once all of our peers have reported.
In the Middle East Asia region revenue and operating income increased by 13% and 33% respectively.
This excellent improvement was led by solid growth in integrated project activity in Saudi Arabia Iraq and India that was partially offset by declines in Malaysia and Australia.
Turning to Europe/Africa/ CIS we saw first quarter revenue and operating income declined 16% and 41% respectively.
Significant activity declines in Angola and the Norwegian sector of the North Sea along with currency and sanction related issues in Russia led to the lower results for the region.
Latin America revenue and operating income increased by 10% and 22% respectively primarily due to higher unconventional drilling in Argentina and increased activity in Venezuela.
Moving to North America revenue and operating income declined 9% and 54% respectively relative to a 21% reduction in the US-land rig count.
Lower commodity prices have translated into severe reductions in activity levels throughout the first quarter accompanied by significant price reductions.
Primarily as a result of the market decline that is affecting all of our operations globally we incurred $1.2 billion of charges in the first quarter consisting of asset write-offs including our entire operations in Libya and Yemen severance-related costs inventory write-downs impairments of intangible assets and facility closures and other items.
Over the last two quarters we’ve reduced our headcount by approximately 9000 employees more than 10% of our global headcount.
As Jeff indicated we're continuing to take a hard look at our operations.
Additional actions will likely be required in the second quarter although we expect further charges will be significantly smaller.
Our corporate and other expenses totaled $69 million for the quarter slightly lower than originally anticipated.
We estimate that our corporate expenses for the second quarter will be approximately $75 million and this will be the new quarterly run rate for 2015.
During the quarter we adopted the new free-floating market exchange rate in Venezuela resulting in an approximate $200 million foreign-currency loss.
Our effective tax rate for the first quarter came in slightly lower than expected at 26% due to a higher mix of international earnings and other favorable tax benefits.
For the second quarter we’re expecting the effective tax rate to remain at approximately 26%.
For capital expenditures given the severity of the decline in activity levels we are now reducing our capital spend for the year by $500 million or approximately 15% to $2.8 billion.
Because we manufacture our owned equipment we have the utmost flexibility to adjust our capital spend based on our visibility of the market.
Our objective is to look beyond the cycle and we continue to be committed to investing in certain strategic technologies such as the Frac of the Future while retiring older more costly equipment.
Our rollout strategy related to this initiative is not impacted as a result of our new capital guidance and therefore we still expect to be approximately 50% converted to the Frac of the Future by year-end.
Finally let me give you some comments on our second-quarter operational outlook.
In North America the average US rig count for the second quarter is already down nearly 30% compared to the first quarter and we expect further activity declines and for pricing to remain under pressure.
As a result we anticipate a sequential revenue decline in the second quarter.
But as a reminder we typically outpace changes in the average rig count.
We also expect margins to drift lower to the mid single digits with our sequential decrementals improving compared to the first quarter as we begin to see the impact of our cost reduction initiatives and lower input costs from our suppliers.
Now moving to the Eastern Hemisphere outlook.
In the second quarter we are anticipating both revenue and margins to be in line with the first-quarter levels as the typical seasonal improvements are expected to be offset by customer budget reductions and pricing concessions.
In Latin America for the second quarter we expect a revenue decline in the upper teens with low double-digit margins.
The main driver of this is our Venezuela operations where revenues are expected to decline by 50% sequentially as a result of the recent currency devaluation.
In addition we expect to see budget constraints in Mexico and reduced activity in Brazil and Colombia.
Now I will turn the call over to Mark for an update on the pending Baker acquisition.
Mark? Thanks Christian and good morning.
It’s good to be back on the call and I am excited to be able to provide you with an update on the significant progress we’re making towards closing the Baker Hughes acquisition.
Let me begin with some of the more recent developments.
On March 27 we announced that the transaction was approved by the shareholders of both Halliburton and Baker Hughes.
We were pleased that nearly 99% of the shares voted at Halliburton Special Meeting voted in favor of the proposal and that more than 98% of the shares voted at Baker Hughes special meeting voted in favor of the transaction.
These results were strong vote of confidence from our shareholders and we believe reflect their enthusiasm for the strategic and financial merits of the combination.
When we announced the transaction last November we discussed the likelihood of divestitures and our confidence that the combination would be achievable from a regulatory standpoint.
On April 7 we announced that we will be marketing for sale our Fixed Cutter and Roller Cone Drill Bits Directional Drilling logging while drilling and measurement while drilling businesses.
The 2014 revenue associated with these businesses was approximately $3.5 billion.
We're very pleased with the strong interest that’s been expressed in these assets by potential buyers both within the energy industry as well as outside the industry including a number of very capable financial sponsors.
We will begin the marketing process in the coming weeks.
The eventual sale of these businesses is subject to obtaining final approval of the pending Baker Hughes acquisition by the competition authorities reviewing the transaction.
We expect there will likely be additional divestitures and we plan to provide updates at the appropriate time.
However launching the sale of the drill bits and drilling businesses is a good first step toward expediting this process.
We're continuing to respond to the second information request from the Department of Justice and outside of the US we continue to make progress with the required filings with the competition authorities in foreign jurisdictions.
We believe we remain on track to complete the transaction late in the second half of 2015.
Now turning to integration planning.
Since launching the process in early December we’ve been focused on developing a comprehensive detailed and thoughtful integration plan to make the post-closing transition as seamless efficient and productive as possible but also to fully capture the financial and strategic benefits of the combination.
Working in parallel with the Baker Hughes integration team we're bringing together the talent and expertise of both companies to build an even stronger combined organization as well as ensure that the planning efforts results in a robust integration plan for each and every functional and operational area of both businesses.
We’re preparing such that on day one after the close we can immediately begin the integration and start capturing the value inherent in this combination and deliver on the estimated synergies.
Regardless of market conditions and the actions both we and Baker Hughes have taken to date we continue to target annual pre-tax cost synergies of nearly $2 billion.
As we evaluate this transaction and move toward completion we are confident that we can achieve our synergy objective.
In closing we remain enthusiastic about and fully committed to closing this compelling transaction.
We’re very excited about the benefits this combination will provide to the shareholders customers and other stakeholders of both companies.
This combination will create a bellwether global oilfield services company and together with Baker Hughes we will combine our highly complementary suites of products and services into a comprehensive offering that will deliver an unsurpassed depth and breadth of solutions to our customers.
Now I’d like to turn the call back over to Jeff for some closing remarks.
Thanks Mark.
To sum it up I want to thank the Halliburton team for avoiding distractions and maintaining their focus during the downturn.
We’re excited about the pending Baker acquisition.
We’re making great progress and believe we’re on track to close late in the second half of this year.
It's a tough market out there and we’re not going to try to call a recovery.
There are just not enough convincing data points out there at this time for me to make a conclusion.
Instead we’re focused on the things we can control things like rightsizing the business to current activity levels preparing for the Baker integration by preserving our service delivery platform collaborating with our customers to address their well costs protecting market share with key customers to turning down work when baseline economic thresholds don't make sense.
Continuing to work with our supply chain to properly adjust costs to current market conditions we made progress here but there's still more to get.
And finally investing to preserve the long-term value of the franchise.
So whatever scenario you think may happen we have the people technology and experience to outperform the market.
We demonstrated this during previous cycles and have no reason to believe that this cycle will be any different.
Now let’s open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Jud Bailey from Wells Fargo.
Good job on the quarter impressive.
A question on international impressive performance in the margins better than what we were anticipating and as well as the second quarter guide.
Could you give us a little insight Jeff as to what’s helping drive the margin performance there and help us think about going forward are you seeing the impact of some of the pricing concessions in the 1 and 2Q margins internationally? Thanks Jud.
I am pleased as well with the results in the international market for us and I think it reflects a systematic buildout that we have been talking about in terms of strengthening that organization and it's really paying off.
It also demonstrates execution of our mature field strategy which is really inherent in a lot of that activity.
So I think it's consistent with our performance over the last couple of years and I expect to continue to outperform there.
As we look at pricing though there is pricing pressures sort of throughout the marketplace and obviously the international markets are not immune to that.
And then my follow-up is going to be on North America.
You obviously comment on the second quarter for margins but can you help us think a little bit further maybe in the back half of the year? You noted in the release you’re going to carry higher costs as you anticipate closing of the Baker transaction.
Can you help us think about the impact on margins maybe in the back half of the year as you carry higher cost than you would've anticipated against the market dynamics as price is going to be pretty tough in the back half of the year? Jud this is Christian.
Let me take that.
So you have two questions one is what happens to North America margins in the second half of the year.
We’re not going to provide guidance as Jeff talked about in his prepared remarks the healing process starts when activity stabilizes and then pricing stabilizes and then we will see the benefits of the adjustments in cost structure that we have taken.
So don't know what it is but really it’s a guess on when activity stabilizes.
In terms of the service delivery platform the costs that we are keeping in anticipation of the Baker acquisition first of all those costs that we are keeping are global in nature but it is certainly more impactful to North America.
There are several examples of those buckets of costs.
One is our footprint.
We operate in about 20 districts in North America and with that type of downturn that we’re seeing – as severe as we are seeing we would consider consolidating some of them.
The other one is management of organizations.
So we have a management layer between the districts and the areas.
We would probably have considered collapsing them.
And the third as you know we've been building our logistics capability in the last few years sand plants where we have transloading facilities in all of the basins or rail car network we would have probably dismantled portions of it as activity declined.
However we are keeping all of those because we're expecting the increased volumes from Baker and in terms of the margin impact of this I can say it would probably range between 200 to 300 basis points.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from Angie Sedita from UBS.
Congrats on a good quarter.
Mark I thought it was impressive your comments on the Baker deal as far as the $2 billion in synergies.
I would have thought with the pressure on revenues that the $2 billion in synergies could have moved a bit but can you talk about that a little bit as well as the accretion timeline? Has that changed at all in your mind? So I will address the last question first Angie.
The accretion timeline hasn’t adjusted.
Obviously everything is contingent on us getting the transaction closed.
We can’t get after any of the integration actions until the closing happens.
But I think to address your first question there are couple things to note.
First of all we continue to target internally as synergy cases beyond the two I mean in order to achieve it you’ve got to reach high and so we're looking at every single thing that we could go after.
That's why we remain confident.
In the downturn itself certainly there are actions that are being taken both by Halliburton and Baker Hughes that impact employee counts facility closures and lot of other things some of which you would say likely would be something that would be in the synergy case itself.
But the differences is that most of these changes are being done in response to the market downturn and the question ultimately comes to okay when the market comes back what happens to those costs in order for the synergy case to be ultimately captured we’ve got to make process changes procedural changes changes in the way that we do business between the two companies that ultimately captures those synergies so that when the business does come back the cost associated with those activities does not.
And so that’s why the plans that we are making on the integration continue to really drive after the fundamental process and procedural changes behind it to make sure that we secure those synergies not just for the current period but forever.
And then along with that as far as the follow up the cash from the asset sales related to the merger is the first priority still buying back stock or has that priority changed? Really nothing has changed Angie.
The magnitude of the buyback will always be dependent on how much cash we generate during this downturn the proceeds from the divestitures and so forth.
But our priority has not changed.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Scott Gruber from Citi.
There has been a lot of discussion recently on this refract potential in the US; you mentioned it Schlumberger mentioned it.
I am curious as to your take on the overall potential is this really a marginal source of incremental demand where we’re just looking for a silver lining given the overall activity reductions or could this really be a material source of incremental frac demand here and is this trend primarily technology driven or is it being more driven by your customers responding to the cyclical downturn? Hi Scott the refrac economics are attractive both for our clients and certainly for Halliburton.
We’ve been refracking in essence for a couple of years and we actually see this as a natural extension with the maturing of unconventional wells over time.
Our Halliburton technology was designed specifically to address better production which includes how to refrac so our diversion technology around AccessFrac does that spectacularly as well as CYPHER was designed with refract in mind from the standpoint of not only at the well level but also identifying candidates at a field level.
I would say what has changed in terms of giving it energy right now more energy is the current market and access to capital.
So I think those are going together.
I do believe we will see growth there and I think that growth will be great for Halliburton.
And then an unrelated follow up one of the primary debates amongst investors currently is recovery potential.
You mentioned the responsiveness of shales to an improvement in commodity price.
How do you think about the potential for your North American revenues to return toward a 2014 level? Is this an unreasonable assumption on a multiyear basis how do you think about the potential for your international revenues to rebound to that same 2014 type level? Well look the North America market is again one of the most adaptable markets and we expect that that kind of growth and improvement will be acting as the swing producer.
And so I see the potential over time as we described the past recovery being sort of activity stabilizes then pricing and then input costs catch up but overall the ability for North America to expand is certainly there and if we kind of look back it served us intensity in North America.
If we go back to 2008 our rig counts arguably flat with 2014 today but our revenues over that same period of time have doubled.
So I expect that the focus on making better wells which is right in our wheelhouse will continue to be important.
And your next question comes from James West from Evercore ISI Group.
Mark quick question for you on the divestitures.
Obviously you’re going to be marketing these assets very soon.
Was curious so one how you think about achieving kind of maximum value given these are very high quality assets that are all for grabs now? And then two how quickly do you think we or the market will hear about who the likely buyers are of these assets? Those are great questions James.
Obviously in this kind of a market you’re always a little worried about the process but we've been really excited as I said in my prepared remarks about the level of interest that’s been shown in these assets.
I mean these types of assets only come on the market once in a generation.
And so we’ve just had a tremendous outpouring of response to very quality potential buyers both what you consider strategic buyers inside the industry outside the industry global-based as well as very capable financial sponsors have looked at it.
We’re going to run a process for each business for the two – or for the ones that have been announced we will run two separate processes.
We will run a process over the top of them in case there are buyers that are interested in all of the businesses in combination but we think by doing it in that way that gives adequate and complete opportunity for anybody who is interested and participate and to come and to stake their claim.
The process for themselves generally will stretch I am going to guess about five months.
So it’s going to be in the later part of the summer before that we will probably have identified buyers.
Before we can really make any kind of analysis we’re going to have to go back to have conversations with Department of Justice and other competition authorities who are looking at this to make sure that the buyers that have been identified will be acceptable to them.
Remember that the process is not just divestiture for the sake of getting proceeds.
The process here is to make sure that we’re maintaining competition in the marketplace and so they'll have an interest in making sure that the identified buyers are going to be able to make sure that those businesses will be sustainable in the marketplace will be viable competitors once the process is completed.
And then just unrelated question from me maybe Jeff or Christian on the supplier side your supplier side you’re getting some benefit it sounds like from your sand maybe chemicals and truck and things like that have you seen the full benefit yet and will that show up in the second quarter? And what’s the magnitude of kind of the reduction in the cost from your major suppliers? Thanks James.
I am not going to talk about the amount lot of those discussions are ongoing but we are making progress.
I would – discounts are still better the closer that they are to the wellhead and by that means they have better visibility of really what the full impact of the current downturn might look like.
As we work with our suppliers we’re clearly consolidating those suppliers and we’re doing more volume and we will continue to do more volume with the vendors that work with us to lower our costs.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from Bill Herbert from Simmons &amp; Company.
Mark the divestiture process once again.
Are you able to shed any light as to what the after-tax consequences will be associated with the sale of these businesses? Should there be a tax burden associated with the sale of these businesses or how do you think about that? I mean it’s contingent upon price of course but I'm curious as to what we could expect from an after-tax standpoint not on number specifically but conceptually? Conceptually yes.
There will be an after-tax impact of these as they are -- we do expect them to sell well above book value.
And so there will be a tax consequence of that.
We don't know what that's going to be at this point in time even if I did not sure I would tell you – I would have to kill you.
That is just joking but I think that – but we do expect these businesses to go for a really good value.
I mean I think anyone who is interested is going to have to bring their A game considering how many people are interested in these projects and so they are going to be pretty traditional asset sales that will have an after-tax impact themselves.
But I think at this point in time we still fundamentally believe in economics of the transaction as we outlined if you know at the time that we announced the overall deal.
We believe that's intact and our view is that there will be adequate proceeds to be able to have cash at the closing to help Christian do what he needs to do.
And then secondly Jeff with regard to the inventory of drilled but uncompleted wells are you getting any visibility from customers with regard to telegraphing when they’re going to start monetizing these wells? Are there any discussions about them getting going in the second half of the year or what pricing thresholds they are contemplating that will result in the greenlight going off? I mean they lack the clarity in terms of the outlook as much as sort of anyone does in the market right now.
So I don't think they’ve even concluded around the timing though it would certainly be at a point in time that they see commodity prices rising as opposed to where they are.
And I think around the dock inventory of course a couple of comments.
First it represents we think about 4000 wells that’s against the backdrop of 55 000 wells that were drilled last year.
So that's one thought.
And then the second is it’s really a limited subset of customers that can even afford to talk about drilled but uncompleted wells at least as a practice.
So from our standpoint without precision around the timing it certainly looks like deferred revenue for Halliburton and arguably when it occurs it will accelerate sort of tightening and recovery.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from Brad Handler from Jefferies &amp; Co.
Thanks guys.
Maybe a couple of related questions related to the North American market.
But just first your guidance want to make sure I heard that.
I think you said mid-single-digit North American margins in 2Q that's despite not having a couple or more hundred basis points relative to cost savings and that's include – but you’re factoring in effective pricing is continuing to presumably be full quarter worth of pricing declines and the like.
So first of all I guess is the mid single digit did we hear that correctly? That is correct.
So Brad as I pointed out in my prepared remarks activity continues to decline price continues to be under pressure and therefore margins go flock down to the mid-single-digits.
So it’s an all-in including the elevated cost structure that we have.
Can you maybe just comment a little bit on in Q1 maybe order of magnitude activity versus price realization combined for that minus 25% sequential performance can you split it up for us a little bit? So just in terms of activity versus price if you just look at the progression of our results in the first quarter January held up actually better than the March as you can expect the exit rate was much weaker than where we started.
Overall in terms of our activity that our frac stage count is actually down just in the mid-single digits.
That would imply that this tremendous amount of pricing that we were impacted by.
So we think it as we go into Q2 the activity will continue to come down.
Don't know what it might be as I pointed out right now rig count is down about 30% and the decline continues.
But we will continue to have pricing pressure.
Maybe just a follow-up as well so clients are really myopic on price right now and as data points are continuing to deteriorate we obviously also talk about the falling rig count service capacity sorting itself out.
But at this point in time as I said in my prepared remarks simply don't believe that this is sustainable in terms of pricing.
And so it's a point as service capacity sorts itself out we clearly expect clients to return to making better wells which is right in our wheelhouse.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from David Anderson from Barclays.
Jeff you talked about two of the three camps of service companies out there based on unsustainable models.
And as we think about kind of the new equilibrium performance for the rig count we know there’s going to be a lot of excess capacity.
I was wondering if you could talk a bit about how you think about attrition levels in the pressure pumping market? I mean how long can these guys continue working – do you think they are weighing on capital infusions there and I guess I am also just kind of secondarily wondering how you think about normalized margins in North America going forward? Do you think that it could be lower than the past just to keep those guys on the sideline? Just kind of curious how you are thinking about this as it develops? Let me reframe that a little bit and think in terms of sort of capacity in general.
If we look back before we look ahead capacity comes out pretty quickly and actually when it comes out it doesn't generally get back to work.
And that is – and so if we look at the activity today and how hard the equipment is working to the extent that equipment is getting burned up at prices that don't make sense and new capital is not spent to replace it.
Then it’s not necessarily a linear attrition of equipment.
What happens is it sits on the sidelines until it's needed and then it's not there and we really saw that happen last year when capacity was taken up very quickly.
And so I don't expect it to be any different going forward which is really underpins our investment in the Q-10 and our ability to operate more sustainably at a lower cost.
And then are you thinking about kind of normalized margins yet is it too early to be talking about that? We used to talk about kind of mid-to high 20% margin.
But just wondering if you’re thinking that sort of have to be a little bit lower to keep that capital from coming back in the market we’ve been in this just to kind of avoid this cycle we seem to be constantly in? I don't think so.
I mean the path to the 20s and beyond – I mean all of that still works because that’s in our sort of design of service and execution model but because things are so myopic today on price this isn’t really the time to have – we can’t act on that meaningfully.
But as Christian mentioned as activity stabilizes then healing begins and at that point certainly pricing and input costs catch-up and we’re back on the path.
But we have to get to some stabilized level of activity and that's where the efficiency model that we execute really shines it on.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from Jim Crandell from Cowen.
Thank you.
Mark is there a scenario where in order to close the Baker Hughes deal that you also need to divest wireline fluids the chunk of completions offshore cementing maybe some stimulation vessels? Jim as I said in my prepared remarks we know that there will be some additional divestitures to do.
We don't exactly know what those are going to be.
That’s going to be something that will be found out as we have discussions with the competition authorities both Department of Justice as well as elsewhere in the world and I just can't even speculate at this point in time what those other divestitures might be.
Mark if it’s all of the ones that I said is there a level where you questioned doing the deal? There is not a level that we question doing the deal.
We still fundamentally believe in everything that we see that the level of divestitures will be substantially below the $7.5 billion threshold that was laid out in the merger agreement.
So we’re still operating well within that level and no there is not a level at this point that we would walk away from the deal.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from Kurt Hallead from RBC Capital Markets.
So just wanted to get general sense I mean guys again over time done really well obviously on the revenue front.
Just trying to get a sense on the dynamics internationally from pricing and on the margin dynamic the decrementals from here and when you might start to see some stabilization in the international markets? Thanks Kurt.
The international markets are very competitive and at this point all our clients are asking for discounts.
The reality is there’s just not a lot to give.
If we go back to 2008 that international markets really never recovered certainly entirely from that.
But the short answer is yes we are seeing pricing pressure.
Clients are asking for discounts.
Though what I would say a better leading edge discussion is around efficiency and contracting which is how to better work with Halliburton to take system costs out of drilling.
And so I would say we’re not having – at the beginning of those discussions were truly internationally that's a key component of the path forward to for our customers.
And Kurt let me comment on international decrementals.
We’re still targeting that our decrementals international to be better than in 2009.
And one of the reasons why we feel that way is because of how our margins behaved in Q1.
As you know internationally our decrementals usually are the harshest in the first quarter.
Historically it’s 45% plus but if you look at our Q1 decrementals it was half that historic rate.
Plus we have strong incrementals on a year-on- year basis growth in both revenue and operating income international.
So every quarter is going to be a battle but we’re starting -- where we stand right now in terms of achieving the objective of having lower decrementals than in 2009.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from Ole Slorer from Morgan Stanley.
Christian just give a little bit more – shed a little bit more light on the $1.2 billion charges.
You mentioned [indiscernible] and how much was the working capital? Ole we couldn’t hear you but I think you are looking for the savings from the charge.
Okay so let me just take a stab at that.
We are taking multiple actions including right-sizing our infrastructure we reduced our headcount and lowering our supplier costs and obviously this has been a global effort.
Right now our estimate for the savings from these actions is about $1 billion annually but as Jeff pointed out that and as I pointed out in the prepared remarks we’re not done.
We will continue to take a hard look at our operations in the second quarter and we will continue to make adjustments.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from Dan Boyd from BMO Capital Markets.
Hi thanks.
Just wanted to really clarify something because there's a lot of talk of the backlog of wells building up that you mentioned.
But then at the same time you mentioned that your frac stages were only down -- what was that -- mid single digits sequentially but the rig count was down 27% sequentially.
So can you help me understand what's going on there? Are you just gaining that much market share or is the backlog of wells not all that abnormally high? Well there's always some level of uncompleted wells in any market because of pad drilling.
So if you kind of look at the numbers of pads generally speaking the rigs will drive uncompleted wells sort of systematically into the marketplace.
So but we typically see a flight to quality in a market like this and so as we've said we are defending our customer base.
We focus on the fairway players and particularly those players that value our efficiency model.
As I've said we won't work at silly prices but our strategy to be the sustainable lowest-cost per barrel of oil operator holds true.
And I think we're seeing it play out.
Yes impressive market share gains.
And then you've touched on this a number of times in the call and just talking about industry attrition and pressure pumping equipment and yet it happens typically through cannibalization of the fleets I think as you touched on.
But can you just maybe give us a guess as to how much attrition we might expect if we stayed at current market levels? It's really too early in the cycle for me to give you a number but let's think about it this way.
While the total market volumes of pumping are down year on year or certainly sequentially are down the volume per well is up 12% sequentially which means that the equipment that's out there is working harder than it's ever worked.
There may be less of it working but working harder which says that stacked equipment does get cannibalized unless people are making capital investments in equipment.
So I think we're going to see a similar attrition sort of behavior that we saw through the last cycle.
End of Q&amp;A Thank you.
At this time I would like to turn the call back to management for any closing remarks.
Thank you Danielle.
I guess I'd like to wrap up the call with just a couple of comments.
As we've said while we work through the current market we'll continue to control costs to protect our margins while playing offense to protect our market position with key clients.
As we look through the cycle we'll continue to invest in those capabilities to deliver our long-term strategies in unconventionals deepwater and mature fields.
I'm confident that our people technology and experience will outperform the market and emerge as we have in the past a stronger company in the recovery.
So look forward to speaking with you next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This does conclude today's program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Halliburton Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
As a reminder this call is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Kelly Youngblood Halliburton's Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Good morning and welcome to the Halliburton Second Quarter 2015 Conference Call.
Today's call is being webcast and a replay will be available on Halliburton's website for seven days.
Joining me today are Dave Lesar CEO; Christian Garcia acting CFO; and Jeff Miller President.
Mark McCollum Chief Integration Officer will also join us during the question-and-answer portion of the call.
During our prepared remarks Dave will provide an update on the pending Baker Hughes transaction.
However due to ongoing discussions we will not be taking any questions today related to regulatory matters.
Some of our comments today may include forward-looking statements reflecting Halliburton's views about future events.
These matters involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to materially differ from our forward-looking statements.
These risks are discussed in Halliburton's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2014 Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31 2015 recent current reports on Form 8-K and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason.
Our comments today include non-GAAP financial measures.
Unless otherwise noted in our discussion today we will be excluding the impact of these items.
Additional details and reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in our second quarter press release which can be found on our website.
We had several moving pieces this quarter so let me help you walk through the numbers.
As announced in our press release our adjusted earnings per share for the quarter was $0.44 excluding restructuring costs of $0.30 and acquisition related costs of $0.08.
However as required by Generally Accepted Accounting Principles included in our results was a $0.06 benefit related to the cessation of depreciation expense associated with the assets we are currently marketing in anticipation of the Baker Hughes acquisition.
Excluding the depreciation benefit would have resulted in earnings per share for the quarter of $0.38.
Going forward the benefit associated with our assets held for sale should be factored in to your financial models as this is the only quarter that we intend to disclose it separately.
Now I will turn the call over to Dave.
Thank you Kelly and good morning to everyone.
The services industry obviously experienced another challenging quarter with lower activity levels and widespread pricing pressures across the globe as our customers continue to respond to the impact of reduced commodity prices.
Considering the difficult headwinds that worked against us I am very pleased with our overall financial results for the second quarter.
Now let me cover some headlines.
First total company revenue of $5.9 billion declined 16% sequentially compared to a 26% decline in the worldwide rig count.
I'm also very pleased with our Eastern Hemisphere margin expansion which once again outpaced our primary competitor.
We generated nearly $1.2 billion in operating cash flow.
Operating income declined as a result of lower activity levels exacerbated by pricing (04:13) declines primarily in North America.
Revenue for North America was down 25% sequentially significantly outperforming the 40% decline in the average rig count.
And while the North American rig count declined 40% our stage count declined less than 10%.
Therefore we believe that a customer flight to quality emerged during the quarter.
And this gives us reason to believe that pricing declines may begin to decelerate.
And I can tell you our customers are smart responsive and adaptable in this market.
And although we experienced some weather disruptions we were able to make up this work later in the quarter.
We continue to maintain an infrastructure well beyond current market needs ahead of the Baker transaction incurring costs which we would have otherwise eliminated.
This impacted margins by 300 basis points to 400 basis points in Q2 and decremental margins this quarter were better than previous cycles which demonstrates that our aggressive cost reduction initiatives are helping to offset the current market challenges.
The U.S.
rig count finished the quarter down 55% from the peak in late November but has moved sideways over the last few weeks.
Price erosion continued in the second quarter and is likely to remain fluid in the near term.
We anticipate margin compression in the third quarter but believe it will be driven more by the full impact of pricing declines that we gave up in the second quarter and from lower activity levels more than continued price erosion.
In fact we believe that service pricing for the industry has fallen to unsustainable levels.
Last quarter we described three types of service companies in the market: those making a profit which weren't very many; those covering cash costs and those operating at a loss even on a cash basis.
During the first quarter Halliburton was one of just a few companies that posted profits in North America.
And we expect the second quarter has been even more challenging for those of us in the industry.
As a result we believe many of the smaller service companies are now operating below cash breakeven levels which leads to the conclusion that pricing cannot stay at these levels for an extended period.
Now looking ahead we could begin to see a modest uptick in activity during the second half of this year which could include increased refrac activity which Jeff Miller will detail later.
However we are not expecting a meaningful activity increase until sometime in 2016 depending on the pace of production declines and where commodity prices settle out in the coming quarters.
Therefore what we are continuing to do is manage our cost service our customers that are engaged in this flight to quality and prepare for the Baker transaction.
Now outside North America I'm very happy with where our international business is today.
Our full year outlook for our international businesses remains unchanged.
We still estimate a mid-teens decline in total international customer spend compared to last year.
However we expect to outpace the total market and believe our revenue decline will be less severe.
We also anticipate our third quarter Eastern Hemisphere margins will be in the upper teens.
Now let me provide a little bit of international of regional color.
In the Middle East/Asia we see a solid and stable business as project awards across the Middle East are moving forward.
Europe/Africa/CIS is challenged today with the North Sea Russia and Angola markets being the most vulnerable; and in Latin America operators are struggling with their cash flows.
Although the international markets are more resilient than North America they are certainly not immune to the impacts of the lower commodity price environment.
We did experience some pricing declines in the first half of the year but negotiations are continuing and we will not see lower pricing fully built into our run rate until the second half of the year.
In addition we are continuing to work with our customers to improve project economics through technology and improved operating efficiency.
The execution of our strategy in addressing this environment remains the same.
We are continuing to employ a two-pronged approach.
We are looking through this cycle to ensure that we will accelerate our growth when the industry recovers.
To do this we continue to invest in key technologies build out capital equipment and prepare for our pending acquisition of Baker Hughes.
The second part of our approach is managing through the downturn joined upon our management's deep experience in navigating through past cycles.
We are aggressively lowering our input costs eliminating discretionary spending managing our business within our cash flows and protecting our market position.
Now I would like to provide you with an update on the significant progress we are making towards closing the Baker Hughes acquisition.
Let me begin with some of the more recent developments.
During the quarter we began marketing for sale our Fixed Cutter and Roller Cone Drill Bits Directional Drilling Logging-While-Drilling and Measurement-While-Drilling businesses.
In early July we received nearly 25 indications of interest for each of the businesses all of which included prices and we are very pleased with the prices and the response.
Because of the high level of interest we received we are limiting the number of bidders for the second round to only the strongest responses.
We expect to complete the auction process sometime this fall with the closing of the divestitures being concurrent with the closing of the larger transaction.
We have also recently provided a proposal for additional divestitures to various competition authorities around the world.
In aggregate the total divestitures being considered are still within the scope of those contemplated by us at the time that we announced the transaction.
On July 10 both Halliburton and Baker Hughes entered into a timing agreement with the DoJ.
Timing agreements are often entered into in connection with large complex transactions and provide the DoJ additional time to review responses to its second request.
We have agreed to extend the period for their review of the acquisition to the later of November 25 2015 or 90 days after both companies have certified substantial compliance with the DoJ's second request.
I am pleased to say that Baker Hughes did certify substantial compliance on July 14 and we expect to do so shortly.
Outside of the U.S.
we continue to make progress with the required filings in foreign jurisdictions.
Specific to the European Union we expect to submit our filings later this month which will start the formal review process.
We are fully committed to our target of closing the acquisition in late 2015 though the acquisition agreement does provide the closing can be extended into 2016 if necessary.
As we evaluate this transaction and move toward completion we are confident we can achieve the cost synergies of nearly $2 billion regardless of market conditions or any cost reduction actions taken by either company through that date.
In closing we are enthusiastic about and fully committed to closing this compelling transaction.
We are very excited about the benefits of this combination and what it will provide to shareholders customers and other stakeholders of both companies.
This combination with Baker Hughes will create a bellwether global oil services company combining our highly complementary suites of products and services into a comprehensive offering that will deliver an unsurpassed depth and breadth of cost-effective solutions to our customers.
Now let me turn the call back over to Christian who will provide you some details on our financial results.
Christian? Thanks Dave and good morning everyone.
During the second quarter we announced our decision to divest our Drill Bits and Drilling MWD/LWD businesses.
These businesses were classified as assets held for sale in the second quarter and we ceased the associated depreciation and amortization for these assets resulting in an approximate $0.06 benefit to the quarter.
We've included a table in our earnings release quantifying the second quarter profit uplift by geography.
To provide better transparency of our current operational trends the sequential comparisons in my comments today have been adjusted to exclude the special items indicated in our earnings release as well as the benefit of the lower depreciation meaning both the first and second quarter results reflect the full depreciation burden in order to have an apples-to-apples comparison.
Now let me provide a comparison of our second quarter results to the first quarter of 2015.
Total company revenue of $5.9 billion represented a 16% decline while operating income declined 18% to $570 million.
North America led the decline as a result of lower activity levels and continued pricing pressure across all of our product lines.
In the Eastern Hemisphere second quarter revenue declined by 3% while operating income increased 17% representing a 300 basis point margin improvement from the first quarter levels despite activity and pricing headwinds.
In the Middle East/Asia region revenue declined by 5% while operating income showed a modest improvement.
Lower activity levels across the Asia-Pacific markets were offset by improved profitability in Iraq Kuwait and the UAE.
We are pleased with the progress of operations in Iraq where margins reached double digits for the first time which we expect to sustain for the full year.
Turning to Europe/Africa/CIS we saw second quarter revenue come in flat with operating income increasing by 69%.
Seasonal activity improvement's in Eurasia and Norway along with higher stimulation activity and Completion Tools sales in both Algeria and Angola drove the improvement for the quarter offsetting weaker activity levels in the UK and Egypt.
Latin America revenue and operating income declined by 19% and 21% respectively driven by Venezuela primarily due to the negative currency impact of the new exchange rate.
Partially offsetting this decline was improved profitability in Brazil resulting from the recently retendered Directional Drilling contract.
Moving to North America revenue and operating income declined 25% and 59% respectively relative to a 40% reduction in the North America rig count.
Lower customer budgets translated into additional reductions in activity levels throughout the second quarter accompanied by further significant price reductions across all product lines.
Our decrementals in the second quarter were 19% about half of what we experienced in the second quarter of 2009.
During the second quarter we took additional actions to adjust our cost structure due to the continued decline in global activity levels.
As a result we incurred an additional after-tax restructuring charge of $258 million in the second quarter consisting primarily of severance-related costs and asset write-offs.
Since the beginning of the year we've now reduced our global head count by over 16%.
We continue to evaluate our operations and will make further adjustments as required to adjust to market conditions.
Our Corporate and Other expense totaled $17 million for the quarter.
We estimate that our corporate expenses for the third quarter will be approximately $75 million and this will be the new quarterly run rate for the remainder of 2015.
Our effective tax rate for the second quarter came in at 26% and is expected to be between 26% and 27% for the remainder of the year.
We continue to focus on cash flow generation.
And given the continued decline in activity levels we are reducing our capital spend for the year by another $200 million to $2.6 billion representing a 21% year-over-year decline.
Manufacturing our own equipment provides us with the utmost flexibility to adjust our capital spend based on our visibility of the market.
Finally let me give you some comments on our third quarter operations outlook.
My guidance commentary will include the benefit of our lower depreciation and amortization run rate from assets held for sale.
Starting with the Eastern Hemisphere outlook we expect to see a full quarter impact of price reductions which will affect our third quarter results.
We currently expect a low to mid single-digit decline in sequential revenues with margins declining modestly into the upper teens.
For Latin America we also anticipate a modest decline in the third quarter for both revenues and margins.
In North America if we extrapolate the current rig count forward it suggests that the average rig count for the third quarter should decline by at least 5% compared to the prior quarter.
This in combination with the full quarter impact of lower pricing leads us to believe that revenues and margins in the third quarter will be under pressure.
This pattern is consistent with previous cycles where we typically see at least a one quarter lag when the market is transitioning towards the bottom.
Based on our visibility today we're currently expecting a low single-digit decline in sequential revenues with margins also drifting modestly lower.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jeff for the operational update.
Jeff? Director &amp; Chief Health Safety and Environment Officer</strong> Thanks Christian and good morning.
I'd like to start by congratulating our Eastern and Western Hemisphere operations teams for delivering solid results in a very difficult market.
We are the execution company and our guys are flat out executing right now.
Internationally we continue to make progress with our mature field strategy.
During the quarter we completed a successful infield drilling program in Malaysia while mobilizing for projects in Iraq and Russia.
In Mexico we completed drilling the first well using rigs from our joint venture with Trinidad Drilling setting a new drilling record for South Mexico Mesozoic basin.
We're seeing strong interest from our clients tendering new activity and the global pipeline of opportunities that we're evaluating continues to be in excess of $35 billion.
The deepwater economics were challenged in $100 a barrel and are clearly challenged in the current commodity price environment which is precisely why we are focused on technology that both delivers better production and reduces the structural cost of drilling wells.
This generally means removing complete activities from the work stream.
A terrific example of this is how Landmark's DecisionSpace software allows clients to reduce drilling days by integrating geological data with well construction design.
In a recent deepwater project this integration reduced drilling time by 15 days by eliminating one entire directional build phase.
In another case the President of another large client was quoted at a recent conference saying that his company reduced its seismic survey data analysis time by 80% through working with Landmark.
The point is that Landmark is making a meaningful contribution to our strategy to lower the cost per barrel of oil equivalent for our clients by eliminating activities and reducing structural costs while also delivering more productive wells.
Another example of technology driving efficiency was the delivery of three Lower Tertiary completions in the Gulf of Mexico using our Enhanced Single-Trip Multizone Packer (sic) [FracPac] (22:25) System.
The ESTMZ is proving to consistently reduce rig time in these high cost environments.
Turning to North America land the industry saw a sharp 40% sequential decline in the average rig count during the second quarter.
Against this backdrop let me provide a few data points around Halliburton's operations in the quarter.
North America revenue was down 25%.
Our stage count was down less than 10%.
Average profit per well increased 7% sequentially and finally approximately 85% of our active fleet continues to work on a 24-hour-a-day operations.
And we believe these factors clearly indicate why operators prefer to work with a more reliable service provider like Halliburton for more complex completions.
So now that the rig count appears to be scraping along a bottom what happens next? The exact timing's difficult to predict but the previous cycles would point us to the following progression of how the story should play out as we move forward.
First activity stabilizing means the healing process can begin with respect to pricing and margins.
This will then allow our input cost savings to catch up and our efficiency programs and well solutions can begin driving margins up.
Price improvement will then be a challenge until we see capacity tightening in the market.
Therefore any margin improvement will likely be the result of lowering our cost base.
We stacked a nominal amount of equipment during the quarter and expect to put this equipment back to work when the economics justifies doing so.
We currently estimate that approximately 40% to 50% of industry capacity has been idled although our percentage stack is significantly lower.
What's unique about this cycle is how service intensity has evolved since 2013.
Over the last two years average job size has essentially doubled.
And at the same time both average pump rates and pressures are also up.
On the plus side bigger jobs mean more revenues and better equipment utilization for us.
The downside is we believe larger completions are taking their toll on pumping equipment.
In fact these factors point to higher equipment attrition rates for the industry.
Now this is precisely why we continue to invest in our service efficiency strategy at Halliburton.
Close to 40% of our pressure pumping fleet has been converted to Frac of the Future with a target to reach 50% by year-end.
Our customers appreciate the reliability and efficiency of our Q10 units and we are pleased with the progress in updating our fleet with this more cost-effective model.
In addition the downturn has allowed Halliburton to retool and improve our maintenance and value engineering processes.
The result is that in spite of increasing service intensity our maintenance cost on a per unit basis is trending down while our service quality and efficiency are the best in company history differentiating us from our competitors.
And while the market has been myopically focused on service pricing we know that ultimately it will be lower cost per barrel of oil equivalent that will carry the day.
So to this end in addition to surface efficiency we continue to deliver technology to help our customers reduce the structural cost of their wells.
For example the Illusion dissolving frac plug which we launched in the second quarter will ultimately eliminate the requirement for coil tubing to mill out plugs.
The Illusion frac plug provides high-performance isolation during plug-and-perf operations and functions like a normal plug meaning it does not require any balls baffles or any sort of special casing design.
When dissolved it leaves the full wellbore open to maximize production.
And I'm pleased to see the growing customer interest in using technology for better well placement and better perforation efficiency.
An example of this is our proprietary FracInsight solution which gathers the necessary logging data but does it in a cased-hole environment meaning it does not consume valuable rig time required by open hole solutions.
In a joint study with a large customer in the Eagle Ford FracInsight data eliminated the pumping of unnecessary out-of-zone treatments which helped reduce stimulation costs by over 35% and significantly improved the cost per BOE equation for our customer.
Let me spend a minute on refrac technology in the market.
We've been involved in refrac operations for decades and have executed at least twice as many as any other service provider.
Although relatively small today we believe this market has significant potential in the coming years.
So why are customers interested? Early horizontal wells were arguably under-stimulated as stages per well are up more than 30% and proppant per well is up more than double since 2010.
What's changed is two key components of technology.
First is our diversion chemistry that more effectively stimulates wells and then second is our diagnostic technology to validate those results.
Diversion technology like Halliburton's AccessFrac more effectively stimulates the entire lateral through better proppant placement creates greater complexity within the formation and helps mitigate well bashing scenarios.
Thus far through our candidate selection process and design AccessFrac contributes an average of 80% increase in estimated ultimate recovery for our refrac clients while greatly improving the predictability of results.
More importantly AccessFrac is equally effective as a solution on new wells improving cluster efficiency and delivering 20% to 25% production increases for our customers compared to offset wells.
AccessFrac is becoming a standard process for a growing portion of our clients and is delivering better production and EURs.
Our suite of fiber-optic diagnostic tools deployed either as a permanent installation or on coil tubing allows us to monitor individual stage results and validate the treatment performance of our refrac solutions.
This means that we can demonstrate that our diversion technology and equally critical delivery process together dramatically increase stimulated clusters along the lateral thereby maximizing our customers' production and EUR.
Though a relatively small market today we see significant runway for refrac in the future.
There's an opportunity to address the needs of operators to increase their production and expected ultimate recovery from the tens of thousands of unconventional wells drilled over the last several years.
And we anticipate that customers will begin to dedicate a percentage of their annual spend to refracturing operations.
Because of our confidence in our technology and ability to lead this market we've laid the groundwork to execute large-scale refrac operations through alternative business arrangements.
To this end we're pleased to announce that we have entered into a memorandum of understanding with BlackRock to provide a funding mechanism specifically for refrac projects up to $0.5 billion in capital over the next three years.
We're pleased to work with a tremendous partner like BlackRock.
This arrangement allows Halliburton to focus on candidate selection execution and generating best in class returns while allowing BlackRock to pursue innovative opportunities with their clients.
We've seen it before; our customers in unconventionals are highly adaptable and they are actively seeking the surface efficiencies downhole technologies and business arrangements that will make the economics work.
When the recovery does come it's our belief that North America will respond the quickest and offer the greatest upside.
And when that happens we are confident that Halliburton will be the best positioned to outperform in the recovery phase of the cycle.
I'd like now to turn it back over to Dave for closing remarks.
Thanks Jeff.
To sum things up this is a damn tough market one of the toughest ones that I have ever been through.
And I don't believe anyone on the call can accurately predict when commodity prices will rebound and rig counts will recover in the U.S.
or the international markets and neither can I.
What I do believe is that when the recovery occurs North America will offer the greatest upside and that Halliburton will be the best positioned to lead the way.
We are pleased with the progress of the proposed Baker Hughes acquisition and are working diligently to close this transaction before the end of the year.
Looking ahead whatever shape you think the recovery will take we have the products the technology and the management expertise to outperform the market.
We have demonstrated this during the previous cycles and have no reason to believe that this cycle will be any different.
As we have said our customers are smart responsive and adaptable and we are already seeing that by working together we can figure out a way to have both of us earn returns for our shareholders even in this challenged commodity market.
With that let's open it up for questions.
Thank you.
And your first question comes from James West from Evercore ISI.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning guys.
Morning.
Director &amp; Chief Health Safety and Environment Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
It looks like contrary to I guess popular belief on Friday you guys did not have to work all weekend to change what you were going to say today so congratulations on a good quarter.
Yeah thanks James.
Yeah I had a stress-free weekend that's for sure.
Good to hear.
A quick question on the North American margins.
So the 300 basis points to 400 basis points of extra cost that you're holding on to right now is that just Halliburton related costs or are you actually adding to your cost structure in anticipation of the Baker Hughes transaction? And if so will you have all the railcars to handle those facilities et cetera that you need once the transaction closes later this year? Director &amp; Chief Health Safety and Environment Officer</span></strong> Yeah thanks James.
This is Jeff.
The – I mean we have the best operating platform in North America.
So when we look at that and anticipate adding a second story basically to the house our management structure the operating basis that we have the logistics infrastructure including things like Battle Red and our business development we know are critical to delivering the synergies and delivering them quickly.
So as we manage our business we continue to invest in those things that support that sort of in spite of the market.
So the answer is managing our investment in new things but obviously retaining those things that we know are important.
Okay.
Okay.
Fair enough Jeff.
And another question a follow-up for me related to that one.
On the synergy number for the Baker Hughes proposed transaction it sounds like you're very confident still in that $2 billion number.
However both companies have taken cost reduction efforts.
Is that – I mean are you synthetically raising that synergy number then if you're already – both companies are already going through cost cutting right now? Director &amp; Chief Health Safety and Environment Officer</span></strong> Yeah I mean that's a way to look at it but I think what's most important to take away is that the – while market adjustments are required we want to be crystal clear that the current activities do not impact our view and confidence in the $2 billion worth of post-acquisition synergies.
Got it.
Thanks Jeff.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Angie Sedita from UBS.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Thanks guys.
Indeed a solid quarter particularly given the market.
I guess to (35:56) look forward into 2016 on the U.S.
pressure pumping market and just your thoughts on the outlook not thinking about oil prices but just the outlook for scrapping of equipment by some of your peers maybe laying down equipment that's going to be cannibalized and not returning.
When you think about 2016 how do you think the pressure pumping market will play out ignoring the oil price scenario? Director &amp; Chief Health Safety and Environment Officer</span></strong> Yeah thanks Angie.
I mean 2016 looks better than 2015 but I'd like to reframe your question as how really does attrition play out.
And for example I was just out in the Southern region looking up.
When I travel I look at our locations and competitor locations and I see more equipment than required showing up on competitor locations to compensate for the lack of maintenance and the lack of capital investment.
In some cases two times as much is what would be required.
Now that's attrition in action.
And capacity can tighten very quickly and we saw that in 2014 how quickly attrition – or actually capacity tightened.
So I mean that's why we're so committed to Frac of the Future.
I mean it clearly performs in the downturn and it's even more valuable as the industry recovers.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then I was actually kind of surprised on the BlackRock side the transaction.
Can you give us a little detail there further details on how that will play out the logistics of the arrangement and just some color? Director &amp; Chief Health Safety and Environment Officer</span></strong> Well yeah.
I mean what we see is this is a foundation for growth and demonstrates our belief that the market grows.
And it's clear that the technology enables returns.
It also lays the groundwork for us to move quickly at scale.
And the short answer is it's set up around a three-year sort of window I mean it provides a lot of flexibility for us to act quickly.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Jud Bailey from Wells Fargo.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Dave in your prepared comments you noticed that service pricing is generally unsustainable across all product lines.
I was wondering given the potential for attrition in the industry and given how low pricing is how do you think – do think pricing can normalize back up to a more reasonable level before we fully utilize the fleet given the amount of stacked capacity? Or how do you see that first step in pricing playing out given how depressed pricing is and given how much idle capacity there is? Should it normalize a little bit quicker because there is so much stacked capacity and people are investing in their fleets or is going to take just as long as it has also prior troughs and up cycles? No I think the – certainly it's not going to pop back up to where it was even a year ago today.
It'll normalize in an incremental fashion and it's going to be a combination essentially of pricing increases equalization or equilibrium in terms of equipment across the board and also allowing the input costs to continue to catch up with where we are.
So it's going to be a lot of blocking and tackling and it's just going to go step-by-step.
Okay.
Thank you for that.
And then my follow-up is on international pricing.
Christian you noted in your prepared comments that taking into account you have a full quarter of lower pricing rolling through how should we think about in the fourth quarter have you already adjusted? Are you already seeing a lot of the new pricing rolling through the P&amp;L? Or are we going to have more of an effect as more contracts reprice in the fourth quarter as well? Jud the fourth quarter it's still early to call what the fourth quarter will look like but if you think about it we will still continue to have pricing pressure impacting the fourth quarter.
However we would have the usual seasonal uptick that we experienced on the – during the end of the year.
Okay.
Is it too early to see if you think those can kind of offset each other by the fourth quarter? At this point we think that the seasonal uptick will offset the – any sort of additional pricing impact that we might have in the fourth quarter.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from Bill Herbert from Simmons &amp; Company.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I just wanted to drill down a little bit further on BlackRock and also kind of broaden the discussion with regard to business models.
So with regard to BlackRock what are they bringing to you that you can't do on your own? Is it simply balance sheet? And then moreover what exactly are you sort of purporting to do with regard to pursuing the refracs? Are you underwriting the cost of the refracs? Who are you targeting et cetera? And then secondly more broadly speaking in terms of that – the evolution of your business model are you willing to put your balance sheet to work and make use of your robust holistic value proposition with regard to underwriting the cost of drilling and completing a well even a new well? Yeah Bill (41:23) questions in there.
Let me try to synthesize an answer sort of one at a time.
Think about what a service company brings to the table is sort of the people process and technology.
And what we're looking for is sort of revenues and margins today.
What a BlackRock brings to the table is they're looking for an income tail that goes out a number of years.
So in my view it sort of dovetails together very nicely.
To specifically answer your question yes we believe in our technology we believe in the refrac market going forward and we believe that we can make a difference.
And so we would leverage our balance sheet to ramp that part of the business up.
But what BlackRock gives us is an ability to lever beyond that look at additional ways of doing business with our customers different business models push beyond where we have been today or where we might be going in the future.
But we're not going to lay those out for you here on the call because I think those discussions are going to be with specific customers in specific circumstances and will remain confidential between us.
Okay.
And who are – what type of customer are you targeting? I mean it's not I would assume just the E&amp;Ps under duress but who else are we targeting? No we're not targeting marginal assets here.
We're targeting good sets of assets that for whatever reasons are not being able to get accessed by our customer base today.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from Scott Gruber from Citigroup.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yes I want to reiterate great quarter especially with regard to those international profit margins.
I'm curious as to your opinion on when the domestic industry could see some friction in rehiring labor if this recovery gains momentum.
I realize that you're in a great position given that you're one of the very few companies that actually has the ability to carry extra labor and extra costs today.
So the question for you is really at what rig count do you think you could see competitors become more aggressive in trying to steal your employees simply because there's a dearth of quality labor on the sidelines? Director &amp; Chief Health Safety and Environment Officer</span></strong> Yeah I mean that's probably less of a rig count question more of a capacity question as things start to tighten.
And I think we've demonstrated through the last cycle our ability to ramp up very quickly with people.
So not particularly concerned about that.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> For the industry more broadly though do you think it would happen this cycle at a lower rig count relative to the past because – given the service intensity trends? Director &amp; Chief Health Safety and Environment Officer</span></strong> Well I think tightness could occur at a lower rig count most certainly and I think that the lack of investment in the industry today could drive that tightness at a lower rig count.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> And do you think the equipment burn rate is going to be an issue before labor or vice versa? Director &amp; Chief Health Safety and Environment Officer</span></strong> I think the equipment precedes labor.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Got it.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from Kurt Hallead from RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Good morning.
Just a follow-up to the prior question there.
In one of your earlier comments you mentioned that industry capacity for frac are fully (44:50) 40% or 50% excess at the moment.
But when you factor in the (44:56) perspective the attrition what would you say the net effective excess capacity in the marketplace might be? Director &amp; Chief Health Safety and Environment Officer</span></strong> I think it's – Kurt this is Jeff.
I mean it's – If you think about attrition it's happening all of the time but it's not necessarily apparent all of the time.
And by that I mean it's – you don't see it until there's a call on the equipment and we really saw this last time.
So as competitors consume more equipment on location to do the work you don't feel the tightness.
But as that equipment is called on for even a little bit of incremental activity that's when it's seen.
So recalculating the 50% overhang is difficult to do until there's a call on it but we're certain that it's happening today.
Okay.
And then for my follow-up Christian was mentioning some continued pricing pressures or lingering effects of pricing pressures going out into the fourth quarter.
Just wondered if you might be able to give us some general sense are the pricing pressures going to be roughly equivalent in North America and international? I would be under the impression that the pricing elements would have largely abated during the third quarter if rig count's going to stabilize.
Just give us some more color on pricing dynamics on a regional basis that'd be helpful.
Director &amp; Chief Health Safety and Environment Officer</span></strong> Well I think pricing internationally all the customers ask for discounts but the reality is there's not much to give.
We never recovered from the 2008 cycle internationally.
And so the better discussion there – and it moves to this discussion – is around how to deliver better efficiency and reduce costs and that leverages precisely what we do at Halliburton.
North America as we've said we see the price decline rate maybe a description decelerating but nevertheless still some pressure as we move through the quarter.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from Jeff Tillery from Tudor Pickering &amp; Company.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
I guess I'm curious to hear how the last few weeks have impacted the customer discussions whether it'd be – I mean I imagine it's mostly focused on North America but it did feel like completion activity was finding a floor and then the oil price rug gets pulled out from everyone.
So I'm just curious how the – your view around the third quarter has evolved over the last three weeks.
Director &amp; Chief Health Safety and Environment Officer</span></strong> Well over the last three weeks it hasn't changed that much.
I mean we think about the rig count it has puts and takes.
And so it was seeing some improvement but then Friday I suppose those gains were erased.
So I would describe where we are today as scraping along a bottom.
And scraping along a bottom means that we don't anticipate dramatic change of any sort certainly over the very near term.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> My follow-up just on the profit pressures in North America.
Should we expect Halliburton's North American business in Q3 to stay profitable? Director &amp; Chief Health Safety and Environment Officer</span></strong> Most certainly.
Right.
So obviously there's still uncertainty on the depth and length of the cycle.
However we are doing everything possible to make sure that our North America will be profitable.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you all.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Dan Boyd.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thanks.
So a lot of focus on the attrition rate in pumping this call but how about on the demand side? You mentioned that you're seeing the average job size increase significantly year-over-year.
How should we think about sort of the pressure pumping intensity of the rig count? Is there a rule of thumb that we should think about? And how is that changing? Director &amp; Chief Health Safety and Environment Officer</span></strong> Well the demand for equipment and the – the increasing demand on equipment is really a function of the increasing job sizes.
And so we see more and more of the capital spend on completions and I don't see anything that dials that back.
Obviously technology that we deliver is focused on making better wells sort of within the current job sizes.
So I don't think job size growth is not infinite because it starts to have an impact on neighboring wells and other things but the quality of the fracs will continue to improve.
I guess said another way though if you think about the job sizes increasing is there something that we could tie to a rig count? I know the rule of thumb used to be sort of four or five rigs per pressure pumping crew.
Is it something lower than that today that you're experiencing in your fleet? Or are the increased efficiencies that you're able to realize offsetting that? Director &amp; Chief Health Safety and Environment Officer</span></strong> Well I would think more in terms of well count than rig count today driving completions.
And from our perspective the basis for the Q10 and Frac of the Future is for us to be able to do that which we are doing with substantially less capital on location.
So that's clearly part of our competitive advantage.
Yeah and I would say just one additional thing is although the rig count has been decimated this year the rigs that are running today keep in mind are the most efficient rigs that are out there.
And therefore they are drilling more wells sort of per rig than we've ever had in the past.
So I think the fixation on rig count yes it's important to the industry but I think well count is another thing that folks need to look at and concentrate more on because it's the well count that ultimately drives how much completion work is done.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from Brad Handler from Jefferies.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Hey guys.
Maybe first question relating to the international activity.
There were some references maybe several references particularly in Europe/CIS/Africa related to product sales.
Should we read anything into that? Is it – was there a bit of catch-up from buyers that weren't buying say in the fourth quarter of last year in the downturn? But was there some sort of truing up to a normalized level? And I guess what I'm hinting at is perhaps there's some falloff as guys have caught up a little bit in their product purchases – as your customers have caught up in their product purchases.
Does that undermine the third quarter outlook at all? No.
I think what we're trying to say service work is fairly consistent and fairly predictable product sales sort of come lumpy all the time.
And so when you get a product sale it might push your margin and revenues up or down but I wouldn't – other than sort of a fourth quarter push around Landmark and things like that product sales do happen throughout the year.
We just like to be transparent and point out when they've helped.
But they're going to help nearly every quarter.
But it just depends on sort of what the location is what the geography is and perhaps in some cases what the product line is.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Unrelated follow-up maybe it's my – I'm not that strong in the accounting side and I don't want this to devolve to an accounting lesson but I was a little surprised to see the stoppage of depreciation without things getting pulled into some sort of a discontinued state as the assets were held for sale.
Does that happen or what's the trigger point for the businesses to be pulled out and put into a discontinued state? Right.
So Brad obviously don't want just an accounting lesson but accounting standards...
Right.
...call for a business that planned to be divested to be classified as assets held for sale when they meet certain criteria and we met those those are – there are six conditions.
To be reported as a discontinued operation well you have to put the results of that business in a separate line item that business needs to represent a strategic shift by the company and that's what the accounting standards require.
And clearly this is not the case in this situation because we will continue to be in those businesses for drilling services and drill bits.
So our treatment is consistent with other merger situations that require a sale of overlapping businesses.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from Rob Mackenzie from IBERIA Capital.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
A quick question for you.
Coming back to the North American margin impact commenting about 300 basis points 400 basis points of excess cost you're bearing I guess I'm a little bit curious with your viewpoint for a muted recovery and uncertainty well into 2016.
Why carry so much incremental cost here? Well it's pretty simple.
I mean I think we have a superior delivery platform in North America.
We know where we are going to be adding a tremendous number of people and assets to it and in my view it'd be crazy to get rid of it.
If you look historically the cost to carry something ultimately outweighs the cost to have to replace it go out and get people retrain those people rebuild your infrastructure and all of that.
So it's a decision I made.
It's on me if you disagree with it but I think that it's easily defendable and I think it's certainly the way we need to go here and I'd tell you it's going to pay off once we get this deal done.
Great.
Thanks Dave.
And then on the international margin (54:51) this quarter obviously up sequentially I guess in every geomarket.
I get you're guiding that down slightly again going into Q3.
Can you give us a little more color on the Q2 performance? Obviously some of that was the contract status in Brazil and elsewhere but it seems like there's a fair bit of cost cutting that went into that that should carry forward correct? Director &amp; Chief Health Safety and Environment Officer</span></strong> Yes.
The – I mean the Eastern Hemisphere team and international group's absolutely executing and executing on the strategy we laid out which is to manage costs over the near term and they have done that taking out quite a bit of costs while at the same time looking through the cycle.
And we like the contracts that we've won and we've got some very strategic wins that are continuing to go on in places like Scotland and Brazil and other places.
So it's just really just execution world-class execution in the international business.
But if I can add to that in terms of our outlook our Eastern Hemisphere margins were 19% in the second quarter and we are expecting this to come down a little bit into the upper teens.
This would then suggest that our margins are being sustained at a higher level than what they were in the first quarter.
Thank you.
At this time I would like to turn the call back to management for closing remarks.
Director &amp; Chief Health Safety and Environment Officer</strong> Thanks Danielle.
And I'd like to wrap up the call with just a couple of comments.
First there's no question that this is a tough market.
In markets like this Halliburton's operational execution becomes an even more valuable source of differentiation which was demonstrated by our second quarter results.
I'm confident that our team will stay dead focused on delivering both best in class service quality along with our long-term strategies in deepwater unconventionals and mature fields.
Secondly we're pleased with the progress of the Baker Hughes acquisition on many fronts including the regulatory process and the divestitures.
We are confident that we can achieve the cost synergies of nearly $2 billion independent of the current market related actions by either company and are excited about closing the acquisition.
We look forward to speaking with you next quarter. Danielle please close the call.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This does conclude today's program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Halliburton Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Kelly Youngblood Halliburton's Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Good morning and welcome to the Halliburton Third Quarter 2015 Conference Call.
Today's call is being webcast and a replay will be available on Halliburton's Web site for seven days.
Joining me today are Dave Lesar CEO; Christian Garcia acting CFO; and Jeff Miller President.
Mark McCollum Chief Integration Officer will also join us during the question-and-answer portion of the call.
During our prepared remarks Dave will provide an update on the pending Baker Hughes transaction.
However due to the ongoing regulatory review today we will not be taking any questions today related to regulatory matters.
Some of our comments today may include forward-looking statements reflecting Halliburton's views about future events.
These matters involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to materially differ from our forward-looking statements.
These risks are discussed in Halliburton's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2014 Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30 2015 recent current reports on Form 8-K and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason.
Our comments today include non-GAAP financial measures.
And unless otherwise noted in our discussion today we will be excluding the impact of these items.
Additional details and reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in our third quarter press release which can be found on our Web site.
Now I'll turn the call over to Dave.
Dave? Thank you Kelly and good morning to everyone.
As expected it was another very challenging quarter for the services industry.
Activity levels and pricing took another hit across the globe as our customers respond to the impact of reduced commodity prices and the pressure that their own shareholders are putting on them.
Considering the difficult headwinds that were working against us I'm actually very pleased with our overall financial results for the third quarter especially for our Eastern Hemisphere operations.
Now let me cover some of the key headlines.
Total company revenue of $5.6 billion declined 6% sequentially outperforming our largest peer.
I'm very pleased with the resilience of our international business where we again outperformed our largest peer on both a sequential and year-over-year basis for both revenue and margins.
This demonstrates once again that we are not getting distracted as we go through the merger process and I'm confident that from what we are seeing in the marketplace this is the same for Baker Hughes.
And despite lower revenues as a result of pricing concessions and activity reductions we were able to maintain operating margins due to a relentless focus on cost management.
As expected North America revenue and operating income declined further as a result of lower activity levels and pricing pressure.
However relative to the overall market I am pleased with our performance.
From the peak that we saw last November our completions related activity has declined approximately 18% relative to a 58% reduction in the U.S.
land rig count.
This clearly demonstrates the customer flight to quality that has emerged during this downturn and it positions us well for when the market recovers.
And finally we took an additional restructuring charge to reflect current market conditions.
But let me remind you as we approach the finish line on the Baker Hughes acquisition we continue to maintain North American infrastructure well beyond current market needs incurring a cost which we would have otherwise eliminated.
This cost impacted North America margins by approximately 400 basis points in the third quarter.
Now turning to operations in North America prices continue to erode during the third quarter impacting the total services industry profitability obviously including ourselves.
We believe these prices are clearly unsustainable but as we have been saying all along pricing cannot stabilize until activity stabilizes.
Looking ahead to the fourth quarter visibility is murky at best.
Based on current feedback we believe most operators have exhausted their 2015 budgets and will take extended breaks starting as early as thanksgiving.
Therefore our activity levels could drop substantially in the last five weeks of the year.
In my 22 years in this business I've never seen a market where we've had less near-term visibility.
In reality we are managing this business on a near real-time basis customer-by-customer district-by-district product line-by-product line and yes even crew-by-crew.
But you know me and you know our management team.
Nobody knows the North America land market better than us.
We are the execution company and we know what leverage to pull to make this market work.
Our view is that the first quarter could end up being a mirror image of the fourth quarter.
So just as the fourth quarter is facing a steep drop-off post Thanksgiving we expect to see a slow ramp up beginning in January and improving from there suggesting that the first quarter could be the bottom of this cycle.
If you pull back and look at the full year 2016 and compare it to 2015 you could envision a similar mirror image directionally a slow start and then perhaps picking up speed in the second half of the year.
Now there obviously are a number of moving parts in North America and I'm not confident enough yet to call the exact shape on this recovery.
But we do expect that the longer it takes the sharper it will be.
Until then we will continue to execute on our strategy and we will be watching the same external data points that you do: What is happening to oil production? What is the rig count doing? What is happening with operators' cash flows and how are re-determinations impacting our customers' credit lines? And in addition we have our own proprietary internal metrics that we will follow.
We will continue to adjust our cost structure to market conditions but to me it does not make sense to reduce costs or infrastructure to reflect expected fourth quarter's reduced activity levels.
Instead we are positioning our North America land business for future success and to ultimately outperform the industry as the market recovers.
Internationally I remain very happy with where our business is today.
The international markets have held up better than North America but they are not immune to the impacts of lower commodity prices.
We did experience lower prices during the quarter but in anticipation of these reductions we aggressively went after further cost adjustments.
And although we had to concede some on pricing we have worked closely with our customers during the past year to improve their project economics through technology and operating efficiency.
Internationally for 2016 we expect to see a continuation of trends from 2015.
Land-based activity including mature fields should be the most resilient while we expect offshore to see additional project delays.
Now I'd like to provide you with an update on the Baker Hughes acquisition.
During the quarter we announced the second tranche of businesses to be marketed for sale in connection with the acquisition of Baker Hughes and we expect that marketing process to begin shortly.
On the first tranche of divestitures we have now moved into the negotiation process.
On the regulatory front during the quarter the timing agreement with the DoJ was extended by three weeks and accordingly Halliburton and Baker Hughes agreed to extend the closing date to December 16th.
Outside of the U.S.
we continue to make progress with completing the required filings and obtaining the necessary approvals.
Specific to the European Commission we are working cooperatively to respond to their information requests and expect to resubmit our filing in the near future which will start the formal review process.
Let me be very clear.
We remain confident this deal will be approved.
We continue to target a 2015 close but the transaction could move into 2016 which is allowed under the merger agreement.
We are enthusiastic about and fully committed to closing this compelling transaction and achieving our annual cost synergy target of nearly $2 billion.
I want to be clear this $2 billion will be on top of any cost reductions that we've made to date.
We are very excited about the benefits of this combination and what it will provide to the shareholders customers and other stakeholders of both companies.
This combination with Baker Hughes will create a bellwether global oil field services company combining our highly complementary suites of services and products into a comprehensive offering that will deliver an unsurpassed depth and breadth of cost effective solutions to our customers.
Now let me turn the call over to Christian to provide more details on our financial results.
Christian? Thanks Dave and good morning everyone.
Let me begin with a comparison of our third quarter results to the second quarter of 2015.
Total company revenue of 5.6 billion represented a 6% decline while operating income declined 21% to 506 million.
North America led the decline as a result of continued activity and pricing headwinds.
For our international business third quarter revenue declined by 5% while operating income margins remained unchanged to second quarter levels.
The impact of price negotiations with our customers in the first half has been offset primarily by a proactive reduction in operational cost.
In the Middle East Asia region revenue declined by 4% with a similar decline in operating income of 3%.
Lower activity levels across the Asia Pacific markets were partially offset by increased activity in the UAE and Iraq.
Turning to Europe Africa CIS we saw our third quarter revenue decline by 7% with a decrease in operating income of 9%.
The decline for the quarter was primarily driven by lower activity in Angola and East Africa.
Latin America revenue and operating income both declined 4% during the quarter driven primarily by reduced activity in Mexico.
Partially offsetting this decline was improved unconventional activity levels in Argentina.
Moving to North America revenue declined 7% with operating income at near breakeven levels.
Reduced activity levels throughout U.S.
land were accompanied by further price reductions across the business especially in the pumping-related product lines.
Globally the continued activity declines and pricing pressures led us to take additional actions to adjust the cost structure.
As a result we incurred an additional restructuring charge of 257 million after tax in the third quarter consisting primarily of asset write-offs and severance-related costs.
As this market plays out we will evaluate our operations and make further adjustments as required.
Our corporate and other expense totaled 58 million for the quarter and we estimate that our corporate expenses for the fourth quarter will be approximately $65 million.
Our effective tax rate for the third quarter came in a bit higher at 29% due to the impact of gains from our foreign currency hedging program.
We expect our effective tax rate to be approximately 26% to 27% for the fourth quarter.
Given the ongoing decline in activity levels we are reducing our capital expenditure guidance by an additional 200 million to $2.4 billion for the year.
This represents a 27% year-over-year decline.
However our Q10 program remains intact as we derive significant cost savings from its deployment and the Q10 provides us the ability to address the higher completions intensity experienced by the industry.
Finally let me give you some comments on our operations outlook starting with our international business.
We believe the typical seasonal uptick in year end sales will be minimal this year as customer budgets are exhausted and may not fully offset continued pricing pressures.
As such we expect fourth quarter revenue and margins to come in flat to modestly lower compared to the third quarter.
In North America the prospects of reduced borrowing capacity for operators and a prolonged holiday season make the fourth quarter challenging and difficult to predict.
So far the average horizontal rig count is down a little less than 10% from the third quarter average.
If these headwinds play out we estimate that the fourth quarter average horizontal rig count could drop about 15% to 20% sequentially.
We expect our North America revenues and margins to decline but we anticipate sequential decrementals to be only in the mid-teens due to our cost reduction efforts.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jeff for the operational update.
Jeff? Thanks Christian and good morning everyone.
To begin I would like to take this opportunity to commend our operational teams for once again executing to our playbook.
I am telling you we are not distracted.
I particularly like to recognize the performance of our international employees for staying dead focused on our business in a very difficult market.
Now what’s on everyone’s mind is North America.
So let me give you a little more granularity on North America by division.
Our drilling-related businesses have been much more resilient than our completions related businesses.
In fact drilling division margins increased this quarter to 10% and this is including the 400 basis point impact of the added cost that we are carrying in anticipation of the Baker Hughes acquisition.
Obviously the most stressed part of our business is pumping.
Now this is the business that we know the best.
It’s the business that recovers the fastest.
It’s the business that recovers the most sharply and we know what that path looks like.
It looks like this.
It looks like staying with the fairway players in the basins that we know.
It does not mean chasing every stake.
It looks like staying with the customers that are loyal even if that means working at a price that we don’t like collaborating on our path forward that lowers their costs per BOE to a place where we can both be successful and it looks like staying with the overall strategy to focus on long-term returns; meaning we see a path to profitability.
This is a very simple solution but simple does not mean easy.
So if you are looking for a silver lining here the most competitive piece of the business pumping is the one that we know the best.
It’s the business that recovers the fastest and the most sharply and you can be confident that we have the team that gets it done.
Last time we reported earnings oil was in the upper 50s and the outlook was cautiously optimistic.
Since then we saw oil drop into the 30s which I can tell you elicited an immediate and visceral reaction from our customer base.
And as I described at a conference during the quarter the rig count followed the oil price down soon thereafter.
Now this has caused us to continue to look carefully and strategically at the business and how we're structured to execute.
In the short-term we further adjusted our operations.
Recent actions we’ve taken include partnering with our suppliers to find better ways to work together in these tougher times.
Leveraging our logistics infrastructure including higher rate usage of unit trains and stacking additional equipment during the quarter where we either were unable to make an acceptable return or cannot see a path to acceptable returns and finally rightsizing the business to reflect current activity levels.
Unfortunately since the beginning of the year market conditions have forced us to reduce our global headcount by over 21%.
Now these are always tough decisions affecting great people but they are simply decisions that we have to make.
Consistent with maintaining our service delivery model to obtain the cost synergy savings in the Baker acquisition we’ve taken a bottoms-up look at our service processes including comparing our current structure to previous similarly-sized markets.
This is an examination of how we work.
Those things absolutely require to deliver our value proposition which also means stripping away everything that is not required.
For example in the third quarter we eliminated an entire level of management in North America.
In my view this is not a one-time initiative.
By clarifying and controlling how we execute we can retain this efficiency these cost savings as the market recovers.
We have a two-pronged strategy.
The first part being to control what we control in the short-term.
And the second is looking beyond the cycle and preparing for the recovery.
Q10 is our great example.
The cost savings we derive from these new generation fleets is substantial compared to legacy equipment; 25% less capital on location 30% less labor on site and up to 50% less maintenance cost.
Q10 spreads now represent close to 50% of our fleet and we should be near 60% by the end of the year.
At the same time those legacy assets that are still deployed are being strategically placed to maximize our potential in locations or functions that maximize their cost effectiveness.
While the industry is seeing average fleet sizes increase by 15% to 20% over the last two years due to rise in completions intensity our average fleet size has been essentially flat as a result of the more efficient Q10s.
So when coupled with our logistics platform we believe Halliburton offers the lowest total cost of service to our customers at any point in the cycle.
We are pleased with our customer portfolio.
Both in North America and on an international basis we’ve aligned with customers who have strong balance sheets and assets in the fairway positions in the basins.
These are the customers that have better well economics and are continuing to work through the downturn and are engaged in the important cost per barrel discussions.
Improving a customer's cost per barrel of oil equivalent is core to our value proposition.
This is why we continue to invest in technology and our emphasis is two basic tenants.
One is increasing reliability eliminating moving parts simplifying designs and helping eliminate nonproductive time at the well site.
The second is making better wells.
Products like AccessFrac CoreVault and DecisionSpace help customers identify and access the sweet spots of their reservoirs.
And more importantly these products are seeing increased uptake during this downturn.
Adoption of DecisionSpace is up double digits from 2014 for example.
And the usage of AccessFrac has grown more than 60% over the last year.
There is no question that this is a challenging market today.
But our playbook remains the same.
We are looking through this cycle to ensure that we will accelerate our growth when the industry recovers.
And we are managing through the downturn by drawing on our Management's deep experience in navigating through past cycles.
In the long term we anticipate that unconventionals mature fields and deepwater will offer the most significant growth opportunities.
That hasn’t changed although each of these markets faces economic challenges right now.
Ultimately when this market recovers we believe North America will respond the quickest and offer the greatest upside.
And Halliburton is best positioned to outperform.
Now I'd like to turn it back over to Dave for closing remarks.
Okay to sum up.
We continue to make progress with the Baker Hughes acquisition and we are diligently focused on finalizing all regulatory matters completing the divestiture process and preparing for integration activities after closing the deal.
We are managing the downturn by executing our two-pronged strategy getting down to our purest form of cost while retaining the flexibility to grow in our usual disciplined way as activity levels recover.
For the fourth quarter there's a lot of uncertainty as we approach the holiday season.
But we believe that customer budgets will reload in the first quarter and anticipate activity to ramp up in the second half of 2016.
Looking ahead we're not going to try to call the exact shape of recovery.
But we do believe that the longer it takes the sharper it will be.
And when that recovery comes we expect North America will offer the greatest upside and that Halliburton will be best positioned to lead the way.
And finally there is no doubt that this is going to be a bumpy road.
But history would tell you that we have outperformed in these kinds of markets turning them into a new catalyst for growth.
We are the execution company.
So you can be sure that whatever the market gives us we will take it and then take some more.
Now let's open it up for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Jud Bailey from Wells Fargo Securities.
Your line is now open please go ahead.
Thank you good morning.
I wanted to start off by asking about your international margins where you continue to put up good results in spite of the downturn? Could you give us a little more color first of all on the resiliency of your margins and what you are doing there to keep those at relatively flat levels of 2Q and year-over-year? And also how should we think about margin progression internationally in 2016 with pricing continuing to come down and offshore activity probably going to be weak again? Yes thanks Jud this is Jeff.
Well look really these guys internationally are absolutely on top of their business.
So they are you know as you say continuing to outperform our competitors in a very tough market and it really gets down to a couple of things.
They are winning the right contracts and they are winning quite a few important contracts in markets that are important to them and also managing the heck out of their costs.
And so -- and this is a team that I fully expect will continue to outperform even when the market starts to recover.
Jud this is Christian.
Let me take the question -- your question on 2016.
If you look at how our margins behaved on a year-to-date basis our international margins actually had improvement despite revenues lower by 11%.
So we actually had incrementals this year.
If fact we are compressed with a margin gap between us and our largest competitor by about 200 basis points in a scenario where our revenues declined less.
Now in 2016 it is unrealistic for us to think that we can continue to see our margin increase or even remain at these levels over the next year given that we are going to continue to deal with a tough environment.
Now in terms of margin progressions or decrementals it would be very dependent on the magnitude of the declines between activity and pricing and it is way too difficult to say at this point but I will tell you we will continue to aspire to continue to outperform our competition.
All right thanks for that.
And then I guess my follow-up maybe for Dave if I could just follow up on your comment to clarify the mirror image that you see maybe from 1Q relative to 4Q.
Do you think we can actually see revenues rebound modestly it sounds like in the first quarter.
And if so did the margins slip down a little bit more in the first quarter or do you think they can hold stable with where you come in in the fourth quarter? I think it really depends.
Obviously there has to be and there will be a budget reload that takes place in Q1.
I think the big question mark is how fast do our customers go back to work once they do reload their budgets given off what we think we will be a relatively low rig count volume in the latter part of the quarter especially in December.
So it really depends on the bounce back but the cash will be there.
And I think one of the things that our customers demonstrate and believe me we love all our customers.
If they have cash they are going to spend it.
And so really it depends on how quickly they want to ramp up but I do think that as we look at the potentiality of Q1 if there is a slow ramp up that gets a little better toward the end of the first quarter I think that could be the bottom from a margin standpoint then at that point in time.
And then my comment about sort of the rest of 2016 for North America looking a bit like a mirror image of 2015 if you get off the mark slow on your spend then I think it really does come a little stronger in the back half of the year and that gives us some hope at this point in time.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from Sean Meakim from JPMorgan.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Thank you good morning.
Good morning.
I was hoping Dave just to get your perspective maybe from Jeff as well.
Looking at we've got call it may be at least half or more than half of the pumping equipment on the sidelines these days.
Do you have any sense of how much of that equipment is unlikely to come off the fence once there is a call on it? And does the duration of the downturn increase or increase what that could look like in terms of attrition? Thanks Sean.
If we look at the amount of horsepower that's idled right now just on the side lines about half of it is on the sidelines today in terms of stacked equipment.
And that’s equipment that’s not getting any maintenance and it's being cannibalized for parts.
The other factor that we see now service intensity continues to increase actually on a per well basis.
And so that’s yet again harder on the equipment that is working.
So if we look at what’s stacked today we think about half of that equipment stacked today will not be ultimately serviceable.
So that maybe in their estimates four to six million horsepower out of the market in ’16 and that’s very realistic.
If we go back and think about 2013 Q4 we had talked about a 30% or so overhang of equipment then and that capacity overage narrowed to 5% by the end of Q1 of ’14.
So that didn’t happen in 90 days.
That happened throughout that downturn period.
So the takeaway is that’s exactly why we are committed to Frac of the Future and having equipment in place it's able to perform in this environment.
That’s very helpful.
Thank you.
I guess just a follow-up on North America.
What do you think E&amp;Ps need to see in terms of not just higher oil prices but their perceived sustainability of those higher levels? And if we don't see maybe the number $60-plus WTI early in 2016 is there a point at which you think that starts to put a second half recovery at risk? I think you can -- this is Dave you can argue all the macroeconomics where is the breakeven price point.
I think it's –- there's really actually I think a different way you need to think about the customer base in North America especially the independent customer base.
And that’s essentially with the high decline curves that exist on these unconventional plays.
They are really are in drill or die mode.
So if you go a year without drilling a well and your production starts to turnover you are going to have to start drilling or you are going to have to take your infrastructure apart that you’ve built up as a company.
So I think that as we get to the end of the year if these guys have money they are going to drill it up and that’s just the fact that it is.
Now oil is at 60 I think the banks will be more comfortable with extending lines of credit with the debt positions that are there but I think that the real key is going to be the production declines you see and when these companies get to the point where they have to start drilling or they have to start dismantling their companies and they are not going to want to do that.
Thank you.
And your next question from David Anderson from Barclays.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
So in regards to your cost control efforts you mentioned on the call removing an entire level of management in North America.
That got me thinking here can you may be expand a bit in terms of what this redundancy was and perhaps maybe with some of the other opportunities to remove fixed costs from your system? Yes.
Thanks.
As we look at how we do business we get a lot of opportunities to clarify precisely what are those moving parts.
And so as we look at what’s absolutely required to deliver in terms of span and control and oversight of process execution it became clear that there was a service line component in North America an entire layer that we were able to remove.
This is really -- we can do that because of the discipline that we have around how we execute process.
And as that has continued to tighten we’ve actually seen at into the downturn service quality getting better not worse.
And that’s unusual actually going into a market like this.
I attribute that to the discipline around execution.
And so that then allows us to remove that layer as we -- so that’s that that thought.
If we think about other opportunities we are constantly evaluating things that we can do to take cost out of our business and this is in North America and the rest of the world in terms of maintenance process value engineering exercises kaizen events.
So we are highly engaged in looking at those opportunities.
So as it relates to -- as you're saying the nearly $2 billion in cost synergies after closing Baker Hughes I was just curious if that what you just talked about impacts that $2 billion number at all? Obviously market conditions have deteriorated.
So I assume there are some give and takes around that figure.
Can you maybe provide a little bit of color around maybe some of the expectations of how this changed at all or maybe are there more opportunities or is there maybe a little bit less opportunities considering the market has shifted obviously? No I mean we are absolutely confident in the synergies of nearly $2 billion that we’ve talked about and I say that because those aren’t synergies associated with necessarily the market-related taking out a layer at Halliburton that we were talking about.
These are more around changing basic ways that we work that then drive meaningful sustainable savings.
And they range -– won't give you too much granularity on them but it is the way that we for example plug into North America's supply chain being an example of that.
I mean that is a very valuable asset that immediately allows cost savings that are very sustainable.
We can think about the same things in technology in a lot places around the company where changing the way we work together is actually going to eliminate that the bigger piece of cost.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from Angie Sedita from UBS.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning guys and good job on international.
It's pretty impressive.
So if we think about North America and if we go back to actually about 2012 when we had significant overcapacity and pressure pumping and you think about going into 2013 and 2014 we had no movement in price but you saw steady increases in your margin on activity gains and increasing utilization.
So if we think about the cycle and then Jeff you made the reference that you see the path for a return of profitability in North America so if we think about this cycle going into 2016 and 2017 have you guys have done some work to think through where you need to be on utilization or even a rig count to get back into those high single-digit margins and even move back into the double-digit margins could you then see high single-digit margins at 1 100 to 1 200 rig count assuming we get there in 2017? Thanks Angie.
Yes I mean the playbook as I described is as simple but not easy.
And it means that we stay with the customers that can be efficient -- that want to be efficient and that are in the fairways.
We stay in the basins where the efficiency matters and by matters I mean it always matters but it matters the most to us when it creates a critical mass that allows us to leverage up on the volume and take advantage of our lowest unit cost delivery.
And then finally there's clients with the sense of urgency.
And by sense of urgency I mean the urgency to keep the equipment working which ultimately does drive outsized profitability for Halliburton.
And so with activity I see the same the path as we saw before.
That hasn’t changed at all.
All right.
So your thought would be we could move back to those single-digit margins high single-digit margins even in a muted recovery in 2016 going into 2017 even double-digit margins? Yes absolutely.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from James West from Evercore.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning guys.
Hi James.
Good morning.
David or Jeff you guys talk to your customers every single day.
And I'm curious about how those conversations are evolving given that the vast majority of them are facing production declines next year.
And Dave I know you highlighted you either dismantle your business or you drill but is there some percentage of the companies out there that are willing to allow production declines in '16 and not get after it? So I think it really depends on what their bankers are going to let them do or whether their stock price has reasonably well held up in this market.
Obviously some of our customers had their share prices just crushed and some have pulled back but also to the point where they do believe that maybe they can go back in the market for equity if there is a more optimistic view of where WTI prices are.
I think the customer discussions are really -- we’re going to wait and see right now but we are going to reload our capital for next year.
Some of them are talking about getting back to work as early as January coming off a Q4 lull and some I think are going to take a bit of a wait and see but I think very very few of them and certainly I don’t think I’ve had a single discussion where the customer are going to let themselves get into a position of a meaningful decline in production before they figure out a way to start drilling again.
And then there is another group of customers out there that really view that there is a subset of the customer base that will not get access to money that will see a decline that have good acreage and they are going to be absolutely juicy takeover candidates at that point.
So I think it's just we just got to wait and see the -- these re-determinations are going on and it looks generally to me like it’s a sort of kick-the-can-down-a-road approach that's being taken at this point.
But that really just pushes the day of reckoning into sort of the first quarter of next year.
But the reality is that the strong customers are going to survive.
They are going to have money and they’re going to drill at some point next year.
Got it.
And then a follow-up for me on North America; pricing obviously visibility is not great so pricing is still a little sloppy here.
But at what point do you say all right enough is enough we're not going to go down further or I guess the flipside is the attrition rate is picking up pretty quickly with your smaller competitors.
At what point can pricing does not drop because the competition has basically gone away? Yes well the -- yes when we look at -- I won't give you a price James on the call but what I will tell you is that we look at a number of factors when we look at customers challenging as it is right now.
And so I’ll give you not the price but I will talk about the factors.
So we absolutely look at the efficiency as clearly a component of how we look at pricing.
It’s also again customers and basins where we not only see resilience and customers able to execute.
So it’s not so much a number though we have taken equipment and we have that equipment in 2015 when we got into situations where it simply did not make sense to put equipment to work.
Yes I guess let me just add to that.
I mean there is the point that yes we have walked away from work and are walking away from work every day.
However there are some key customers as Jeff said in key basins that have been very loyal to us and we want to stay loyal to them.
We know they are going to survive.
We know they have good assets.
We know they are going to get a budget reload and we know that they want to take advantage of the services pricing that's out there today even if I don’t like that service pricing it is there.
It’s a fact of the market.
This is a long-term game we are in.
These are long-term customers we have.
We typically make good money from them in good times and I’m not going to walk away from them in the kind of times we are in today because it will pay off in the long run and I think that’s in my view the smart way to approach this.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Bill Herbert from Simmons &amp; Company.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Jeff or Dave can you just comment a little bit and/or question with regard to you've given a pretty Darwinian outlook for the fourth quarter in North America but D&amp;E so outperformed that expectations in the third quarter.
Do we see similar resilience in the fourth quarter or how should we think about that? I mean C&amp;P is clear but how should we think about D&amp;E for North America in Q4? I think the -- Bill this is Jeff.
Q4 right now is murky across the piece and I think it's the unrealistic -- if clients stop working at the thanksgiving if we look back to 2012 there was significant slowdown around thanksgiving that sort of continue through to the New Year.
It would be hard to imagine that D&amp;E is immune to the same activity slowdown.
That said although what it does emphasize is sort of the bifurcation in the marketplace and how stressed pressure pumping is today.
And that’s why I get back to -- and I have a lot of confidence in our team and our team knows how to manage through market like this.
Okay.
And question with regard to -- I think I heard you say $2.4 billion in CapEx for 2015 and how should we think about free cash flow generation and working capital harvest for the next few quarters? For the next few quarters our year-to-date cash flows has been impacted by a couple of things Macondo legacy payment with restructuring and acquisition-related cost.
But if you look at our historical seasonality in cash generation we typically do not generate a lot of cash in the third quarter anyway.
But we generate the majority of our cash for the year in the fourth quarter.
So we anticipate that our historical seasonality will hold true for this year and expect to generate cash in the fourth quarter.
So in terms of CapEx as we pointed out 2.4 billion took out another 200 million but as we reiterated in our prepared remarks we are still committed to the Q10 program.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Scott Gruber from Citigroup.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Yes good morning.
Most of my questions have been answered but I had one on the agreement that you guys executed with BlackRock to execute refracs in the US.
Can you just provide an update on that? What's been the reception from the E&amp;P community and has capital been put to work? Thanks Scott.
The reality is this is a very small piece of the market certainly today with effect to refract.
That said we are finalizing terms on a deal under that arrangement.
I think the real story -- the real and probably more important story is around the technology the diversion capability and how that applies not only to refrac and to new wells and how that’s able to improve production to make better wells.
The other thing that when we look at refrac is we see it really more as a portfolio approach to asset management meaning it’s in the toolbox it’s something important that clients can use to better manage pressure in the field pressure sinks and the relationship between parent wells and daughter wells.
So the takeaway though is that the technology and the funding are both in place and we are well prepared for that as -- or to the extent that it does develop.
And as you look out into 2016 do you see an environment where pumping demand could do better than the horizontal rig count for the market as a whole given some incremental refrac demand and incremental demand to draw down on the drilled but uncompleted? Yes.
I mean when we talk about -- when I think about drilled but uncompleted is arguably deferred revenue and it makes sense to do when rigs are contract and a company is trying to converse cash.
Nevertheless those are there in the ground and they are ready source cash flow and so I think they may end up a little bit uncoupled from the rig count per se just because it’s there and needs to be done.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Jeff Tillery from Tudor Pickering Holt.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Christian I just have one question around the near-term.
You talked about North America relatively harsh year-end but also relatively shallow decremental margins.
So I'm just curious how you manage costs in the near-term to achieve those shallow decrementals.
That’s right decrementals are 67% in the third quarter and we are guiding to a decrementals in the mid-teens in Q4.
Well the reason for that is most of the cost reductions that we did were towards the end of the quarter savings of which did not have a material impact in the third quarter.
So we expect those savings will be in the fourth quarter and that’s why we expect to see a drop in decrementals quarter-over-quarter.
Thank you.
And then just you talked a little bit prospectively about the international margin outlook but I was just curious of the pricing reductions internationally that have been agreed to to-date how much of that would you say was realized in the Q3 results? Is it more than half less than half; just looking for a ballpark? Yes.
I mean in terms of -- these are negotiations that seem be that are ongoing and so round one arguably occur early in the cycle actually much was stressed even at 100 in deep water.
And so this has been an ongoing discussion of both negotiation and re-tendering of work.
So what we talked about in the last quarter probably a quarter has been -- a quarter to a half has been absorbed during the current quarter though as long as we see pricing -- commodity pricing where it is and delays in terms of activity I wholly expect we will continue to see this.
Now the better discussion that we have with clients is around how to do drive efficiency and how to use those things that are in our value proposition around increasing reliability and reducing uncertainty to help lower their overall cost and I would say I am pleased that we are having more discussions that look like that with clients as they realize that they reached kind of limits around what’s available in the service sector.
Yes I think -- and let me just add a little bit more color to that because I think it’s important to sort of sit back and understand where does the customer have a leverage point in these negotiations.
So if you go back to a -- let’s say U.S.
horizontal unconventional well and it costs a dollar about -- say about $0.70 of that dollar is focused on the completion particularly the frac.
So that’s naturally where customers have gone in terms of the pressure to reduce cost.
If you go to an offshore kind of a project the cost is really in the E&amp;C cost it’s in the day rate and the drilling rig and other services work that we do is maybe 20% of that.
And so the leverage point that customers have gone for there and obviously you all follow the sector has been to the day rates on the drilling contractors and to the E&amp;C companies with a discussion with us on services rates but we are not the sort of cost tail wagging the dog on the offshore stuff.
It’s really the other guys and that’s really where the pricing leverage has been directed initially.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from Dan Boyd from BMO Capital Markets.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks.
So Dave it sounds like you don't expect a lag between higher oil prices and activity in North America.
But what's your best guess on the lag between higher oil prices and the first quarter we may see higher international activity? Yes that’s a -- it’s actually a great question and I don’t know the answer to that but it will be a longer lag mainly because you look inside of the two sort of I guess tranches of customers internationally.
The NOCs have not pulled back as dramatically as the IOCs have with respect to their deepwater projects.
And so the NOCs I think will -- if you think about sort of a slow wave up and down I think that’s what you are going to see but I think that if you look at the economics of deepwater development I believe the IOCs are going to have to be convinced that not only are the prices at a point where these things can at least cash flow in the long run that they see an upward trajectory in oil prices that they can make a return on these deepwater projects over a period a year.
So it's certainly not going to be the first quarter or two of high oil prices before you see a bounce back in the actual contracting for revenue and the offshore.
You might see some feeds startup.
You might see some pre-engineering startup.
You might see project planning starting up.
And all of that would be good because it’s a sign that they are thinking about going more and quickly into the deeper water but it's going to be several quarters and it really is going to be building confidence back up in the IOCs that the market is there for the long run.
Thanks.
Then just the follow-up would be of the three international regions is there one you would expect to respond more quickly? Probably I could see response in West Africa pretty quickly the infrastructure is in place.
It’s not as hard to startup there as it would be maybe in some other markets but again the -- there certainly would be the lag that Dave is describing.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from James Wicklund from Credit Suisse.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
The Middle East has been one of the better markets for everybody for a while and Saudi always gets mentioned.
You guys have a lot of exposure there.
There were reports out yesterday this morning that Saudi like every other oil company I guess out there is being slow to pay its bills.
But when we hear that from Saudi we get a little bit more concerned than your credit checks on E&amp;P companies.
Can you tell us if you're being impacted by that in Saudi or anyplace else in the world and the implications for that? Jim as a just general statement that we are seeing lengthening of payment patterns from our customers whether it’s in the Middle East or everywhere else but I am just happy to say that when you look at us versus our peers our day sales outstanding continues to lead the pack.
Okay but you don't have any particular issues in Saudi? No.
No we don’t have … No I mean I wouldn’t point to anything there.
Okay.
My follow-up Jeff getting to double-digit margins by late next year gives me some idea of this but you make some pretty good points about changes in prices in cost and structural.
How much do you think -- and if we assume 30% just as a rounding point there's been 30% cost deflation to an E&amp;P Company how much of that 30% do you think will end up being structural several years from now and how much of that will end up being cyclical? Yes that’s a great question Jim.
I think if the margins are at the tail the beginning and ending tail you see sort of dramatic behavior.
So I think that you know that has not been given away.
I think that the path sort of more in the middle will be retained when we get back in balance here with the service companies.
So the short answer is I think we keep most of that.
We do get most of that back under the right conditions but the very right hand side of the upper limits that we saw even going back to 2012 and 2009 '10 '11 those sort of numbers -- we stay more sustainable higher margins based on how we execute how we take off that out of the system and that maybe preferentially better performance by Halliburton around those things.
So I guess the only thing I would add Jim is to the extent we have seen any structural change that we have given up to our customer we will take the same structural change out of our supply chain.
And so hopefully would end up basically net even.
Thank you.
At this time I would like to now turn the call back to management for any closing remarks.
Yes thank you Danielle.
So I'd like to wrap up this call with just a few key takeaways.
First the pumping business in North America is clearly the most stressed segment of the market today but it’s also the market that we know the best.
We know our approach works when the market turns and it will.
This is the segment that we expect to rebound the most sharply.
Second we are maintaining our North American infrastructure required to accelerate delivery of the Baker Hughes acquisition synergies at a cost of about 400 basis points.
And then finally our international franchise continues to deliver market-leading performance on relative basis both year-over-year and sequentially in a tough tough market.
So I look forward to talking to you again next quarter.
Danielle you can close out the call.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This does conclude today's program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Halliburton Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Kelly Youngblood Halliburton's Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Good morning and welcome to the Halliburton fourth quarter 2015 conference call.
Today's call is being webcast and a replay will be available on Halliburton's website for seven days.
Joining me today are Dave Lesar CEO; Christian Garcia acting CFO; and Jeff Miller President.
During our prepared remarks Dave will provide an update on the pending Baker Hughes transaction.
However due to the ongoing regulatory review we will not be taking any questions today related to regulatory matters.
Some of our comments today may include forward-looking statements reflecting Halliburton's views about future events.
These matters involve risk and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to materially differ from our forward-looking statements.
These risks are discussed in Halliburton's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2014 Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30 2015 recent current reports on Form 8-K and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason.
Our comments today include non-GAAP financial measures and unless otherwise noted in our discussion today we will be excluding the impact of these items.
Additional details and reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in our fourth quarter press release which can be found on our website.
Now I'll turn the call over to Dave.
Dave? Thank you Kelly and good morning everyone.
I want to begin with a few of our key accomplishments in 2015.
First total company revenue of $23.6 billion declined 28% year-over-year outperforming a 35% decline in both the average worldwide rig count and global drilling and completion spend.
And even though it was a very tough market I am pleased to say that once again we outpaced our peer group in North America and internationally both sequentially and on a full-year basis.
I am especially pleased with the resilience of our international business despite lower revenues as a result of pricing concessions and activity reductions we were able to improve operating margins during the year due to a relentless focus on cost management.
We also outperformed our largest peers sequentially and on a full year basis in both revenue and in margins.
And in North America of course it was beyond a challenging year where we saw unprecedented declines in activity.
However relative to the overall market I am pleased with our performance.
From the 2014 peak our completions-related activity declined approximately 33% relative to a 64% reduction in the US land rig count.
This clearly again demonstrates the customer flight to quality that has emerged during this downturn and positions us well for the market's eventual recovery.
Now I would like to provide you with an update on the pending Baker Hughes acquisition.
During the quarter we announced that our timing agreement with the Department of Justice expired without reaching a settlement or the DoJ initiating litigation.
In December the DoJ informed us that they do not believe that our previously announced proposed divestitures are sufficient to address the DoJ's concerns but acknowledged that they would assess further proposals.
With respect to the European Commission the review has entered phase 2 which was anticipated and we recently advised the commission that we plan to formally propose remedies which we believe should satisfy any competition concerns.
Earlier this month Halliburton presented to the DoJ an enhanced set of proposed divestitures in order to seek their approval of the transaction.
We also informally notified the EC and other jurisdictions about the enhanced divestiture package.
The sales process for the planned divestiture continues and we are in discussions with interested buyers.
There is no agreement to date with the DoJ or EC as to the adequacy of the proposed divestitures.
Our conversations with the DoJ and the EC and other enforcement authorities continue with the desire to resolve their competition-related concerns as soon as possible.
Now I want to be clear that we remain committed to seeing this deal through despite the extended time required to obtain regulatory approvals.
Now while it is taking longer than originally expected we believe the compelling strategic and financial benefits for our shareholders inherent in this combination continues to remain intact.
We strongly believe that the proposed merger is good for the industry and for our customers.
The combination is expected to create an even stronger company and achieve substantial efficiencies enabling us to compete aggressively to provide efficient innovative and low-cost services.
Completion of the transaction would allow us to better meet our customers oil services needs and help them operate more cost effectively which is increasingly important due to the current state of the energy industry and oil and gas prices.
Finally we agreed with Baker Hughes to extend the period to obtain required regulatory approvals to no later than April 30 2016 but remain focused on completing the deal as early as possible.
In the event regulatory approvals have not been received by April 30 the merger agreement does not terminate automatically.
Both companies may continue to seek regulatory approval or either company may terminate the merger agreement.
Now let me discuss what we're seeing in the market today and our prospects and challenges for the coming year and then Christian will discuss our fourth quarter results in more detail.
Now this has certainly been the most challenging downturn that I've seen in my many many years in business.
We expect the market will continue to remain challenged in 2016 and that it will be the first time since the late '80s that global upstream spending will decline for two consecutive years.
Commodity prices have been a moving target forcing our customers to be cautious in providing visibility to us and their shareholders into their 2016 capital expenditure plans.
Although we do not believe current oil prices are sustainable they are without a doubt negatively influencing customer plans in the near term.
On a geographic basis North America is expected to be the most impacted in 2016.
Third party surveys have also been a moving target indicating a year-on-year decline in service spending from 30% up to as much as 50% and that's on top of the estimated 40% decline in industry spend in 2015.
But the reality is due to the macro uncertainties many of our customers are managing their businesses in real time rig-by-rig.
Accordingly we are going to take this market week-by-week and in some cases crew-by-crew.
This is unlikely to change until our customers have confidence in a sustainable and economical oil price.
Now there are a number of moving parts in North America and my experience has taught me not to bet on the exact timing of a recovery.
But we do expect that the longer it takes the sharper the recovery will be.
Until then we will continue to execute our playbook and adapt our cost structure to market conditions while also positioning our North America land business for future success and ultimately to outperform the industry as the market recovers.
The international markets held up much better than North America in 2015 but they are also not immune to the impacts of lower commodity prices.
Recent third party surveys for international spend indicate a decline that may be up to 20% which will be slightly worse than last year.
We're working diligently with our customers to improve economics of their projects through technology and operating efficiency but do expect margins to be negatively impacted by lower activity levels and pricing pressures throughout the year.
Now looking at our geographies we expect activity in the Middle East Asia region to again be the most resilient in 2016 as recent mature field project awards throughout the Middle East are anticipated to move forward.
However we expect Australia India and other markets across Asia to be impacted by reduced customer spending and delayed projects.
Europe/Africa/CIS is also expected to experience activity declines across the entire region in 2016 with the most vulnerable areas being the North Sea and Angola where the offshore markets continue to face extremely challenging economics.
Customers are focused on reducing their cost structures through more efficient well design and the adoption of new standards for production systems.
But these are structural changes that will take time to fully implement.
And in Latin America we expect lower activities across the region with the largest declines projected in Brazil and Mexico as a result of significant NOC budget constraints.
Latin America is currently expected to have the largest percentage decline within our international markets.
So in summary 2016 is simply going to be a tough slog through the mud but I can tell you we'll do what we have to do.
We know what buttons to push and levers to pull and we will.
We believe our customers will remain focused on cost per barrel optimization and gaining higher levels of efficiency both of which bode very well for Halliburton.
Now it is very difficult to predict the exact timing but once the market has visibility of the trough the recovery will come into view and when it does we expect the recovery will play out very similar to others where North America will rebound first and the strongest followed by the international markets where the rebound will be more methodical.
Now let me turn the call over to Christian to provide more details on our financial results.
Christian? Thanks Dave and good morning everyone.
Let me begin with a comparison of our fourth quarter results to the third quarter of 2015.
Total company revenue of $5.1 billion represented a 9% decline while operating income declined by 7% to $473 million.
All regions experienced revenue declines during the quarter led by North America as a result of continued activity and pricing headwinds.
For our international business fourth quarter revenue and operating income declined by 5% and 10% respectively as a result of price concessions and activity declines with our customers during the quarter.
Additionally due to customer budget constraints we did not see the typical benefit from year end equipment and software sales.
In the Middle East Asia region revenue declined by 5% with a similar decline in operating income of 6%.
Lower activity levels in Saudi Arabia and Iraq led the decline partially offset by modestly higher sales in China and increased activity in Kuwait and Oman.
Turning to Europe/Africa/CIS we saw the fourth quarter revenue decline by 6% with a decrease in operating income of 18%.
The decline for the quarter was primarily driven by a sharp reduction of activity in the North Sea partially offset by higher activity in Angola and Algeria.
Latin America revenue and operating income declined by 6% and 9% respectively driven by reduced activity throughout most of the region partially offsetting this decline was improved activity levels in Mexico.
Moving to North America revenue declined 13% with operating margins improving by approximately 160 basis points.
Reduced activity throughout the US land was the primary driver of the revenue decline especially in the pumping-related product lines.
The margin improvement was primarily due to a spike in year end completion tool sales in the Gulf of Mexico which is not expected to repeat in the first quarter.
Margins also benefited from our aggressive cost-reduction efforts and minimal weather disruptions during the quarter.
Our margins continue to include an elevated cost structure in North America in anticipation of the pending Baker Hughes acquisition.
For 2015 our total company decrementals were about half of the previous cycle due to actions we've been taking to adjust our cost structure throughout the year.
In the fourth quarter we incurred a charge of $192 million after tax consisting primarily of asset write-offs and severance-related costs.
As industry fundamentals continue to weaken we will continue to make further structural adjustments and may incur additional charges in the first quarter.
Our corporate and other expense totaled $70 million for the quarter excluding costs related to the pending Baker Hughes acquisition.
We anticipate that our corporate expenses for the first quarter will be approximately $70 million excluding acquisition-related costs and this will be the new run rate for 2016.
Our effective tax rate for the fourth quarter of approximately 19% includes a retroactive benefit from Congress's recent approval of the Federal Research and Experimentation Tax Credit.
As we go forward in 2016 we are expecting the first quarter and full year effective tax rates to be approximately 24% to 25%.
Given the ongoing decline in activity levels we further reduced our capital expenditures as we exited the year ending 2015 with a total CapEx spend of $2.2 billion.
Our current guidance for 2016 capital expenditures is $1.6 billion.
This CapEx guidance includes the continued conversion of our fleet to Q10 pumps to support our service efficiency strategy which is critical in this environment.
We also expect depreciation and amortization to be approximately $1.9 billion for 2016.
This is the first time in over a decade that our CapEx is lower than our expected DD&amp;A expense which demonstrates our commitment to live within our cash flows during this challenging period for the industry.
Turning to our operational outlook the severity of the activity decline in the coming year continues to be unclear but let me give you some comments for the first quarter.
Our first quarter international results will be subject to weather-related seasonality that occurs in geographies such as the North Sea and Russia exacerbated by the uncertainty around customer spending levels for the coming year.
Although difficult to predict at this point we anticipate first quarter Eastern Hemisphere revenues to decline sequentially by a low double-digit percentage with margins similar to the first quarter of 2015 levels.
In Latin America we anticipate revenues to decline sequentially by a mid-teens percentage with margins retreating to the upper single digits.
In North America we also have limited visibility but estimate that first quarter revenues will decline with the US rig count which is already down double digits against the fourth-quarter average.
We currently anticipate margins to come in at around breakeven levels.
And finally we enter 2016 on a solid financial position with strong liquidity which will enable us to address the current market challenges and be well positioned for the industry's eventual recovery.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jeff for the operational update.
Jeff? Thank you Christian and good morning everyone.
To begin I'd like to take a moment to congratulate all of our front line people for delivering solid fourth quarter results in a tough market.
As Dave mentioned earlier we're expecting 2016 to be a very challenging year due to poor commodity prices and shrinking customer budgets.
We believe that as the coming cycle unfolds we'll see a continuation of what began in 2015 customers seeking efficiency gains and discrete technology to help them bend the cost curve.
At lower commodity price levels we believe the market will continue to evolve in this direction and customers will adopt products and services that help them produce wells with a lower cost per barrel of oil equivalent.
Now this plays directly into Halliburton's strengths helping our customers become more efficient on location can maximize their production all of which contribute to lowering their unit cost per barrel of oil.
So regardless of the commodity price we're continuing to execute on our proven two pronged strategy in this downturn.
The first part being to control what we can control in the short term and second is to look beyond the cycle to prepare for recovery.
And with respect to the short term this means making the tactical changes necessary to right size the business to the market.
We revisited our cost profile throughout 2015 and made significant changes to help mitigate the impact on our operating margins and we'll continue to do so.
It started with where we were.
We systematically reviewed profitability at a granular sub product line level.
This resulted in the consolidation of facilities in more than 20 countries around the world and closing down operations in two countries.
And finally current market conditions forced us to reduce global headcount by 25% in 2015 a necessary but very unfortunate reality.
The second part of our strategy is to look beyond the cycle and ensure the long-term health of the franchise.
For example aligning ourselves with the right customers investing in technology and staying dead focused on superior execution.
In terms of customer portfolio we work to align ourselves with customers that have stronger balance sheets and fairway acreage in the basins.
In North America our top 17 customers make up 50% of our revenue.
When the downturn began these customers were among the last to lay down rigs.
Today we're collaborating with them on ways to lower their cost per BOE to a place where we can both be successful and when the recovery comes we believe that these operators and therefore Halliburton will be best positioned for the upside.
In terms of technology 2015 was a successful year despite the downturn in activity we saw an uptake of new technologies such as DecisionSpace and RockPerm helping customers maximize production and lower their cost per barrel of oil.
A recent addition to our custom chemistry portfolio is our MicroScout service.
MicroScout is a hydraulic fracturing treatment designed to deliver proppant into far field micro fractures enhancing the productive life of new wells.
Early trials have indicated more than a 20% uplift in production compared to offset wells.
Now technologies like MicroScout represent years of research through a disciplined multistage gate program and although I typically spend more time talking about execution and how we get things done in the field it's important to point out that we're executing in the technology side of our business as well.
Through joint reach projects with our customers and by elevating field developed solutions Halliburton is among the more efficient innovators in any industry.
Last year Halliburton secured new patents at an R&amp;D cost of less than $1 million per patent.
In terms of R&amp;D patent efficiency which is central to the return on intellectual property Halliburton is in the same range as other top global US patent leaders.
And finally superior execution.
Service quality is a frequently underappreciated piece of our business but I can tell you that in a market like this a timely efficient job can be the difference between an economic well and an uneconomic well.
So for many markets contract extensions and project awards are influenced by service quality or simply put it's how we distinguish ourselves to win and retain the work.
Now looking at 2015 it was an extremely strong year for the quality of our operations.
This was our third straight year of improvement in both safety and service quality metrics both of which saw significant double-digit reductions from 2014.
Even while the market is forcing us to streamline our footprint in the field we're improving our performance rates essentially doing more with less and doing it better.
We're refining our processes and systems eliminating everything that's not required to deliver our value proposition.
You'll be hearing more about this throughout 2016 as this is not a one time event.
It's the relentless focus on efficiency and process improvement that makes us the execution company.
We believe that these elements our strong customer portfolio our efficient technology spend and our superior service quality provide a strong foundation for our business.
We are confident that by executing on our strategy and building on the successes we can continue to outperform our competitors both during the downturn and when the recovery comes.
Now let me turn the call back to Dave for his closing comments.
Dave? Thanks Jeff.
Let me sum it up.
As I said 2016 is shaping up to be one tough slog through the mud and the industry is going to have to take it a quarter at a time.
We have a seasoned management team and a proven playbook that has served us well during previous cycles and we're entering the year from a position of strength with a solid financial position.
We are focused on maintaining a strong customer portfolio investing in more efficient technology and delivering reliable best-in-class service quality for our customers and are preparing the business for growth when the industry recovers.
And as we demonstrated this year whatever the market gives us we will take it and then take some more.
And finally we remain fully committed to closing the pending acquisition of Baker Hughes.
We are diligently focused on the regulatory reviews the divestiture process and planning for integration activities after we close the deal.
So with that let's open it up for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from James West from Evercore.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning guys.
Morning James.
So Jeff really impressed with the international operations in 2015 I mean growing margins outperforming on the revenue decline.
Obviously there's a lot of cost management going on there.
Could you maybe highlight a little bit further how you guys were able to outperform and what '16 looks like in terms of your ability to continue to outperform? Yes.
Well thank you James.
It really is around aggressive cost control.
And we've been outperforming for a number of quarters.
This looks like winning the right contracts and managing the heck out of the costs most certainly and it's also a mature field strategy in action.
I mean a big piece of this is mature fields and where we see the benefit of scope scale and that clarity of strategy it's a recipe for success.
So really pleased with the performance and that team is right on top of their business.
And you think that out performance could continue as we go through '16? Yes.
So if we look at '16 I mean it will be a tougher slog in '16 no question.
I mean we're seeing fairly constant pressure around negotiation and tenders.
But in some cases we are having what I would say positive collaborative discussions with clients around how to reduce uncertainty increase system efficiency.
So certainly pleased with our performance right now.
Got it.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Jud Bailey from Wells Fargo.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Follow up question on some of the international commentary earlier specifically Latin America.
I think there was a sequential revenue decline somewhere in the mid-teens.
Christian or Dave could you maybe give us a little bit of color is that based on activity declines is it pricing both or do you have any other major projects that may be rolling off? Just maybe a little more commentary over what's driving Latin America at least in the first quarter? So in Latin America if you look at our sequential declines it was 6% down 6%.
It was driven by almost all countries except for Mexico.
Now on a product line by product line basis we had actually good Landmark and Baroid.
However we also had some expenses associated with our vessels in Mexico.
Maybe one further comment.
I mean across the piece it's a tough slog in Latin America.
Nearly every country is facing some sort of particular challenge whether it's macroeconomic or just pure facing down commodity price which is an example for a Colombia for example.
So we're seeing historical lows in terms of rig activity in a couple of countries and I don't see that changing.
Okay.
I guess I was more referencing the first quarter some of the commentary.
I think - didn't you say Christian mid-teens sequential decline for revenue? Yes that is absolutely correct.
And it's because of the macro headwinds that Latin America is facing.
As Dave pointed out Latin America will probably be the most challenged international region that we have and it's particularly acute in Mexico and Brazil.
Okay.
All right.
And my follow-up Dave maybe if you could maybe talk a little more about North America and I guess specifically the nature of discussions with customers and maybe how those are evolving with commodity prices to start the year.
They are obviously going through a number of different budget initiatives.
Maybe you could talk a little bit about any visibility that you have or don't have and kind of what customers are communicating and how they are thinking about the first half of 2016 in North America? Yes I mean I'm talking almost every day with the CEOs of our customers and I would say that it's a real challenge out there.
And I guess the way I would sum it up is there is sort of a constant revision of budgets going on and those revisions are clearly with a downward bias.
So the way I would describe it is right now our customers don't know what they are going to spend where they are going to spend it and when they are going to spend it in North America at this point in time which is why I made the comment earlier we really are trying to run the business on literally a week-by-week crew-by-crew unit-by-unit basis until our customers see some stability in pricing where they can then put a stake in the ground.
But until they can put that stake in the ground we're just going to have to remain very flexible and I like our chances in that kind of a market.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Angie Sedita from UBS.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning guys and certainly I echo James comments on a very impressive quarter and year given overall market conditions.
Thank you.
Thank you.
So a little bit of granularity on the US pressure pumping market.
In the past you've done some work on the potential level of attrition specifically for pumps and engines versus fluid ends so any color further on the attrition side? And are you starting to see a change of behavior by the small pressure pumpers where they are starting to become more aggressive in either pulling out of the market or on the cost side or can they? Angie this is Jeff.
Attrition is really the story here and consistent with remarks before we see today about half the equipment is idled.
That's equipment that's not being maintained and is being cannibalized for parts more broadly.
The service intensity believe it or not continues to creep up.
So we saw a 9% sequential increase in profit pumped on a per well basis which means equipment is working harder than it ever has.
We estimate 4 million to 6 million horsepower that will be out of the market by the second half of 2016.
My gut says we're at the top end of that range right now.
And this is really why we're committed to Frac of the Future.
I mean it's the cost of the pump and it's the total operating cost of the equipment that matters in my view the most and that's what will have Halliburton best positioned for the recovery.
Okay very very helpful.
And then any change in behavior with the small guys given where their margins are and overall profitability or status quo with what you saw in the second half of '15? Yes.
I mean we don't see ourselves as competing with that group but they are certainly aggressive in the marketplace.
We haven't seen them back off.
But again this is the reason why we have strategically invested in Frac of the Future and surface efficiency and then the custom chemistry that we deliver.
I talked about some of that in my earlier comments I mean those are the things that differentiate Halliburton.
Okay.
Perfect.
And then as an unrelated follow-up on the merger obviously you can't talk about the regulatory process but Dave and Mark you've commented in the past that you've reiterated your confidence on the cost synergies with Baker cutting pretty aggressively as well on the cost side.
Can you talk about the cost synergies your confidence there into 2016 '17? Angie I don't want to elaborate anymore but the cost synergy story stays intact.
Okay perfect.
Thanks.
I'll turn it over.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Dave Anderson from Barclays.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thank you.
So you mentioned several mature field projects in the Middle East I think you said are poised to move ahead.
How do you think the Baker Hughes transaction is having an impact on bidding of this type of work? I guess I'm just kind of wondering with the uncertainty around the divestitures it must make it a bit challenging for both you and your customers in terms of putting together and evaluating bids.
Can you just talk a little bit about how this is being handled? Yes.
Dave as you can appreciate I don't think we want to go there.
Okay.
They still compete with us.
We're still running our companies separately and they are in the market making their own pricing decisions and where they tender and how they tender and we don't have any visibility into that.
Okay.
On a separate subject on North America on your North American margins I noticed the D&amp;E margins in North America improved quite a bit this quarter.
C&amp;P was more or less as expected.
I think you said in the release it was something to do with offshore.
Can you expand a bit obviously it wasn't the completion sales.
Can you talk a little bit about what's going on? Is that a trend we should be expecting and maybe kind of your outlook on how you are seeing the Gulf of Mexico this year? So on your question around D&amp;E D&amp;E was also benefited from obviously aggressive cost reductions as well as Baroid and Landmark had good quarters.
In terms of just the overall completion tool sales in the Gulf of Mexico as we pointed out in the prepared remarks we don't expect that to repeat in the first quarter.
Okay.
I think it's important let me just follow that up because our D&amp;E business is executing really well.
I mean those guys are dead focused on winning the right contracts.
We're seeing the benefit of a lot of work in key markets for all of our D&amp;E service lines.
Do you think you can keep those margins where they are over the next couple quarters in D&amp;E? Well we're taking it one quarter at a time and we'll just have to see.
Fair enough.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Bill Herbert from Simmons &amp; Company.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Dave with regard to your cost structure I mean you extolled an exceedingly realistic outlook for 2016 international down as much as 20% and North America down anywhere from 30% to 50%.
And given the adjustments that you've made over the preceding two quarters are you right sized for this expected level of activity in 2016 now? Yes Bill this Jeff.
I mean we are always reducing costs and so as Dave described it is a moving target.
But there are still a number of areas where we continue to work on reducing costs both at the variable cost as well as around some of those sustainable fixed cost items like refining our maintenance processes takes out cost value engineering exercises that are taking place.
We in one case took more than 20% of the cost out of 20 products.
So we're constantly as I say reviewing the structure.
But I do believe these are things that best position Halliburton for the recovery.
Okay.
And two housekeeping items for me to sort of end it magnitude [ph] to Gulf of Mexico year end completion tool sales and then also depreciation why is it going up when your capital spending is going down by as much as it is in 2016? Well it was because of additional CapEx right.
So obviously there is a layering effect on the CapEx.
On your first question what was the first question again Bill on the completion? Gulf of Mexico year-end sales what was magnitude [ph] We're not going to provide that sort of detail.
As I pointed out in the prepared remarks the margin increase in North America has been due to both the completion tool sales in the Gulf of Mexico and also the impact of cost reductions that we did at the end of the third quarter.
To give you just a little bit of additional color the sequential decrementals for the US land in the fourth quarter was in the very low single digits.
So as you can see there has been a significant contribution from the cost cuts that we did in the third quarter.
Very good.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Scott Gruber from Citigroup.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Morning.
Good morning.
I want to circle back to the international margin risk as this is very top of mind for investors currently.
Obviously your margins have proven very resilient so kudos to you and your team.
But this does lead some investors to believe that your clients abroad will simply continue to ask for larger and larger concessions until you're down to very thin margins.
Can you just comment conceptually on why this risk is low to help allay these fears in the marketplace? I think the investment internationally at least by Halliburton we were always sizing largely to the market that we saw.
It's a little bit different than maybe what we saw in North America.
And so I think that our ability to pull levers internationally in key markets is probably more focused.
The - and again I think the ability to size as we move along will bode well for us.
Yes I think let me just add a little color to that.
Of course the way you do business between international markets and the US market is also quite different.
With the drilling and completion efficiencies that we've gotten in the US the time to drill and complete a well has been dramatically reduced which means the time between when you can price what does a frac cost or what does drilling cost or what does a mud job cost is very dynamic very real time and it's very transactional.
The international market still continues to be a long-term contract market.
So the discussions that you have with customers around price concessions and scope changes is typically done within the context of an existing long-term contract which gives you more of a seat at the table and more of an ability to convince the customer that what you're delivering is adding value or that you have ideas where their contracts can get more efficient and therefore reduce their cost per BOE.
And customers always have the ability to go out on tender but those things typically take a while to come to fruition.
So I think really the velocity by which business is done in North America is quite faster than it does in the international market.
And therefore I think the margins will stay up at a higher level and not be compressed down to US levels.
That's good color.
How should we think about the contract real risk then over the medium term especially in light of these pricing concessions? So if I recall the contract role risk was material last recovery period.
The starting point for pricing was obviously very high going into 2009.
But just given the renegotiations that are ongoing today does this minimize the contract role risk as we think about potential recovery in '17 '18? I think the - this is an international question? Yes focused on international yes.
Yes and so one of the things that we typically see internationally obviously that cycle lags the US cycle.
And again these are also economies in many cases that are built around production of oil and gas.
And so from an activity perspective they tend to be on a relative basis more resilient.
The second thing it does is it does provide the opportunity to better manage the work with some visibility which helps us support margins and the second work with clients who are committed to a level of activity to then optimize that level of activity and that serves I think both our customers and us.
Great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Dan Boyd from BMO Capital Markets.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks.
Dave can you update us on your mature field strategy the opportunities you are seeing in this market? And then sort of specifically maybe tie that to Latin American margin projections going forward.
I was under the assumption that mature fields was becoming a bigger piece of the pie in Latin America.
So I'm wondering if once you adjust cost to the lower level of activity can we actually see margins trend higher after the first quarter? Thanks.
These are a good opportunity and we're seeing more of them.
But I would say they are still on a relative basis a small part of our business.
Market conditions are creating demand for these sorts of investments but clearly they bring a different risk profile.
And so with that they've got to have some key criteria like good rocks good terms and service pull-through.
And so when we look in a commodity price like the one today these projects will be more challenged.
And what happens in those is we'll slow down activity around those the same as any operator would.
Okay.
And then unrelated follow up but can you give us an update on the additional costs you're carrying in North America in preparation for the Baker acquisition? The costs associated with the service delivery platform that we're keeping intact remains essentially the same in the last two quarters.
It ran somewhere between 300 to 400 basis points and it remains at that level in the fourth quarter.
Okay thanks.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Kurt Hallead from RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good morning.
Good morning Kurt.
I was curious on the CapEx front at $1.6 billion how would we characterize say maintenance as a percentage of that? We really don't look at it that way.
Most of the maintenance expenditure is actually expensed and as such our CapEx is pretty much based on the line of sight contracts and also the implementation of our strategic initiatives like the Q10.
Okay.
And then you expect that $1.6 billion - I know there is a lot of change in the marketplace clearly but that $1.6 billion you feel confident is based on existing contracts and not much movement on that going forward? Yes yes.
Let me give you kind of an indication of how we run our capital program.
Our capital program as I said is based on line of sight contracts as well as the implementation of strategic initiatives.
But as you know we manufacture our own equipment.
That gives us really a good ability to ramp down and ramp up depending on the market conditions that we're seeing.
So if you recall in 2015 we began the year with guiding to flat CapEx to 2014 and ended up being down about 30% versus 2014.
So that manufacturing capability has become a significant advantage here in this environment.
So the fact that we can ramp up and ramp down we're going to adjust our CapEx program depending on the market conditions that we're seeing in 2016 and if we do so we will communicate that to the street.
All right thanks.
And then a follow-up would be you mentioned Christian North American decremental margins in low single digits during the fourth quarter.
Do you feel you guys are at a point where the combination of your cost-reduction efforts.
And maybe good handle on where this market may be heading is that the decrementals you would continue to expect in North America as you move forward? Well we take it one quarter at a time Kurt if you think about Q1 if you look at our decrementals for the whole year in 2015 it was - for North America it was about 40%.
And if you do the math implied by our guidance for Q1 the sequential decrementals would be less than that which incorporates the lower activities from a continuing decline in the US rig count as well as not having the completion tools repeat in the first quarter.
So we're taking it one quarter at a time.
Okay.
That's great color.
I do appreciate it.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Sean Meakim from JPMorgan.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Morning.
On your international margin performance I was just trying to look at it a little bit differently.
I'm curious how much of the mix shift between offshore and onshore and spend the last couple of years has helped your margins and how that could be a benefit going forward? I think it's more of a shift between exploration and development may have a bigger impact than maybe onshore or offshore.
Onshore is certainly an important and growing piece of our business in certain markets.
But when we get to not only drilling but also completions of the development space is right in our wheelhouse and we've seen as the markets have contracted quite a move that direction.
If I can add to that if you look at where Europe Africa would have the most concentration of offshore is really the weakest.
However we also saw out performance in that region and the Middle East Asia has the highest concentration of mature fields and we also outperformed in that region.
So both regions have been outperforming both on the onshore and offshore segments of our business.
Right.
Those are fair points.
Thank you.
And then just back to North America.
On Frac of the Future do you guys have an update of where your Q10 mix stands today and what you think it would look like at the end of the year based on the new CapEx guide? Right.
At the end of the year we had about 60% of our fleet is Q10 so actually that's higher than what we've guided during our Analyst Day.
We said 50% by the end of 2016.
We are at 60% right now and based on our capital plan it should reach close to 75% by the end of 2016.
Perfect.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Michael LaMotte from Guggenheim.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Dave I was hoping you could elaborate a little bit on the comment in the press release about the CGG collaboration? What is entailed in that agreement and where you think it goes? Yes this is Jeff.
Look we're excited about that arrangement and we think it's a great combination.
A couple of points though I think it demonstrates the value of DecisionSpace and its ability to adapt to and help in seismic interpretation.
It also I think the relationship advances our position there and our access to data to further develop fab software and serve a broader group of customers.
The other thing that it does from our perspective is it puts us in the seismic interpretation part of that business where we believe it is - where there is a lot of value but then keeps us out of the seismic acquisition business.
Is there any potential pull-through on other services you think once you are in the door at the interpretation level? Well I think that we'll work together.
But I think the ability to advance the software and have bigger data sets to work with will always pull through probably more in the software space than more traditional services.
But clearly we believe this is a positive move by Landmark.
Thanks Jeff.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Jim Wicklund from Credit Suisse.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon guys.
Good afternoon Jim.
How long will it take the industry to respond if oil prices one day were to go up and activity one day started to move up? How long would it take the industry to recover 15% of activity in terms of people but industry overall? Jim this is Jeff.
I'd love to have that conversation with you.
I think that it would be a real mix of response and by that I mean the service industry broadly has been beaten up pretty good at what we believe are unsustainable prices.
But I think from our perspective at least at Halliburton I'm confident that we would respond quite quickly.
If you recall it was just 2014 when we hired more than 20 000 people onto the payroll at Halliburton.
And then the way we're taking care of our equipment now I talked about the maintenance processes and the Q10 pumps our ability to respond would be fairly quick.
Okay.
I appreciate that.
And you talk about slower velocity in the international sector.
We've seen guys like Chevron and obviously Pemex in Brazil cut CapEx.
Usually they are done like I said more on a lower velocity level more annual longer-term contracts.
How soon US onshore can react immediately.
How long will it take the NOCs and IOCs to start to pick up activity will it take an annual turn? Yes again you're right that that velocity is slower but at the same time it doesn't slow down as quickly.
So typically we have seen that about a six-month lag behind the US internationally in terms of activity build though it just tends to be more stable.
A lot of government approval is required and partner requirements to get that ramped up.
But inside of existing projects I would say within six months to a year that activity could pick back up.
Six months to a year okay.
My unrelated follow up how many lower tertiary completions do you expect to do this year versus how many did you do last year? Look again a bit of a moving target so I won't comment.
If you think about it though as the lower tertiary is certainly a positive piece of our business.
We love our position there with our ESTMZ and some of our other capability in the lower tertiary.
Okay gentlemen.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Rob Mackenzie from Iberia Capital.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thanks for fitting me in guys.
My question I guess it's for Christian on receivables.
Can you give us a feel for how much of your receivables might be with E&amp;P companies that are distressed or at risk of being distressed to get a feel for the risk we might see for capital accounts? As Jeff pointed out in his prepared remarks one of the key tenets of our strategy is customer alignment and based on that the concentration of our customer in North America 17 customers represent 50% of our revenues and those are the largest companies with better balance sheets that can withstand this downturn.
Now as such we don't have much exposure to the smaller guys not to say that we're totally immune.
But there is much much lower than other service providers in the market today.
Okay.
And my related follow-up I guess would be a similar question internationally vis-à-vis NOCs such as PDVSA Pemex et cetera? Absolutely.
There is no question they have been slow paying.
In fact if you look at their base working capital that's gone up.
Good to say that we lead in that metric and I think we've widened the gap against our peers.
But in terms of international those are the largest companies in the world and we don't expect to have issues there as well.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
At this time I would now like to turn the call back to management for closing remarks.
Okay thank you Danielle.
So I'd like to wrap up the call with just a couple of key points.
First we continue to manage the near term controlling costs while managing to our clients' fluid capital spend outlooks.
Second we remain committed to positioning Halliburton for the recovery which means delivering efficient technology that lowers the cost per BOE for our clients while aligning with those clients with stronger balance sheets and fairway acreage positions.
I thank you.
I look forward to talking with you again next quarter.
Danielle you can close out the call.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes today's program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.