Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Helix Energy Solutions Group.
Review of First Quarter 2011 Results with Investors Conference Call.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Afterwards we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded Tuesday April 26th 2011.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Stephen Powers.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
Here with me today is Owen Kratz our CEO; Tony Tripodo Chief Financial Officer Johnny Edwards Executive Vice President of Oil and Gas; Alisa Johnson our General Counsel and Lloyd Hajdik our SVP Finance.
Hopefully you’ve had an opportunity to review our press release and the related slide presentation release last night.
If you do not have a copy of these materials both can be accessed through the investor relations page on our web site at www.helixesg.com.
The press release can be accessed under the press release’s tab and the slide presentation can be accessed by clicking on today’s webcast icon.
Before we begin our prepared remarks Alisa Johnson will make a statement regarding forward-looking information.
Alisa? Thank you.
During this conference call we anticipate making certain projections and forward-looking statements based on our current expectations.
All statements in this conference call or any associated presentation other than statements of historical facts are forward-looking statements and are made under the Safe Harbor provisions under Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Our actual future results may differ materially from our projections and forward-looking statements due to a number and variety of factors including those set forth in our slide two and in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31st 2010.
Also during this call certain non-GAAP financial disclosures may be made.
In accordance with SEC rules the final slides of our presentation material provide a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP measures to comparable GAAP financial measures.
The reconciliation along with this presentation the earnings press release our annual report and replay of this broadcast are available on our website.
Tony? Thanks.
Good morning.
Moving over to slide five summarizing first quarter results.
We reported a sharp increase in earnings and EBITDA for quarter one with earnings of $0.24 share and EBITA rising 149 million up from 95 million in the prior quarter.
Quarter one’s revenues declined slightly from the 306 million in Q4 to 292 million reflecting weak contracting services activity in the Gulf of Mexico that was almost entirely offset by higher oil and gas revenues.
Oil and gas revenues rose 23% in quarter one versus the prior quarter reflecting a full quarter of production on the Phoenix field as well as higher oil prices.
Well looking back to a year ago which was quarter one ‘11 represented a sharp increase in revenues earnings and EBITDA again with our oil and gas business leading a way for this comparative period.
Over to slide six and seven we generated nice amount of free cash flow in quarter one as our cash balances increased by 50 million during the quarter to 441 million at March 31st.
Our total liquidity at quarter end increased to 837 million and given the size of our balance sheet that’s a significant amount of liquidity.
Again our oil and gas business led the way for quarter one results as our contracting services business was impacted by the low levels of activity in the Gulf of Mexico as a slow pace of permitting has impacted all offshore activities in the Gulf and pipelines all the way to drilling.
We are expiring our contracting service business continues to be well intervention both in the Gulf as well as in the North Sea.
Production rate in the first quarter averaged to 160 million cubic feet a day production in the quarter up 14.4 million cubic feet equivalent with 63% of that production being oil.
Production from the Phoenix field averaged 12 001 barrels of oil equivalent a day net to our interest.
Furthermore much of our oil production is sold at a premium price to quoted WTI prices due to factor that Johnny Edwards will get into later.
Our realized oil and gas prices for the first quarter inclusive of hedges were slightly better than $90 per barrel of oil and $5.77 per gas.
Our realized gas prices benefited from natural gas liquid sales.
I will now turn the call over to Owen for in-depth discussion of our contracting services business.
Thanks Tony.
Good morning everyone.
Let’s look now to slide nine (inaudible) margins improved on a sequential basis primarily due to the loss that we incurred on the Lufeng abandonment project offshore in China in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Moving over to slide 10.
This slide shows the equity and earnings contribution of Independence Hub Marco Polo and the CloughHelix JV.
The results are fairly consistence with the Q4 so I will leave this slide I wanted to review at your leisure.
Over to slide 11 our well intervention business achieved a 77% utilization in Q1.
The Q4000 achieved 88% utilization during the quarter working for some of our key customers and as a healthy and visible backlog for the remainder of 2011.
The Seawell encountered 7 days of weather downtime and was down for another 17 days for repair and maintenance but otherwise fully utilized for the quarter.
The Well Enhancer was down for 40 days in January and February for R&amp;M and was fully utilized for the remainder of the quarter.
Both vessels continue to remain strong and visible backlogs for the remainder of 2011.
So we see we would expect strong results as the year goes on.
The Normand Clough again worked on a day rate construction job that will continue through the third quarter.
Moving to slide 12 as a mentioned a minutes ago weakness in the Gulf of Mexico construction market posed a challenge for our domestic Robotics business in recent month.
That said roughly two-thirds of our Robotics business resides outside of the Gulf and we expect this segments performance to improve throughout the year.
We recently secured a 1 to 2 year contract in India for the Olympic Canyon.
The Island Pioneer is fully booked until the fourth quarter to do trenching work in the North Sea.
And the Deep Cygnus is built at the healthy backlog at wind farm development and trenching work in the North Sea as well.
While the business is off to a slow start all five of our chartered vessels are now utilized and utilization of our trenching and ROV assets in trending upward.
On slide 13 our Subsea Construction assets operated to 33% of utilization for the quarter.
The Caesar spent the quarter in the shipyard undergoing maintenance and upgrades while the Intrepid and the Express completed a few small projects in the Gulf of Mexico.
The Express is now deployed on 170 000 foot pipelay job for Deep Gulf’s [Condor] field and we are working to build a campaign of projects into the fourth quarter.
The Intrepid is currently [dark side] but it will be deployed delay 100 000 feet of seven inch pipe on our own Eugene Island 302 field in May.
We then schedule to mobilize the California mid-year where we are working to build campaign around work that we have already secured and contracted.
Over-supply of pipelay assets in the Gulf of Mexico coupled with customers permitting issue to present a significant challenges for this segment of our business but we are working hard to secure projects for the assets.
Slide 14 illustrates the current design of our deepwater containment system the Helix Fast Response System which we discussed on our year-end conference call.
Since that call four more producers have joined the consortium brining the current number of participants to 24 and six drilling permits have been approved citing our system as the key component as the spill response plan to satisfy BOEMRE regulations.
The system is currently capable of capturing and processing up to 55 000 barrels per day in water depth to 8 000 feet.
And we continue to work with members of our consortium to expand the system with the objective of increasing capacity in later lenient redundancy.
In the near to mid term the HWTG plan to upgrade from our current 10 000 psi well cap to 15 000 psi cap.
This is a dynamic solution and it will continue to evolve over time.
On slide 15 this slide shows the utilization we achieved with our Contracting Services assets in Q1.
And I will leave it for you to look at but there is obviously upside potential through greater utilization.
Now for our oil and gas business I will turn it over to Johnny.
Good morning.
Please turn to slide 16 both slide 16 and 17 provide the financial highlights for oil and gas for the first quarter.
As shown on the slide ERT had a great first quarter.
ERT’s production for the quarter was 14.4 Bcfe compared to 13.7 for the fourth quarter.
The increase in production driven by our strong Phoenix production changed our product mix up to 63% for the first quarter of 2011 compared to 51% from the fourth quarter 2010.
This increased production the change in product mix and a higher oil price realization increased our revenues to 169 million compared to 137 million in the fourth quarter.
Turning to slide 17 our operating cost was slightly lower first quarter 2011 compared to fourth quarter 2010.
Operating expenses by 10 million compared to Q1 2010 primarily reflecting the cost of our HP I utilized in the Phoenix field.
As Tony mentioned earlier ERT’s production for the first quarter averaged to 160 million a day equivalent.
The increase in production over the fourth quarter is associated with the full order of Phoenix production.
In early January the four Phoenix well was bought online.
The Phoenix field averaged 12 100 barrels of oil equivalent per day or just over 40% of ERT’s net production.
The Phoenix field continues to produce over 10 000 barrel oil day equivalent per day net and we can say that Phoenix field has exceeded our expectations.
Our current production in April is averaging 140 million in cubic feet a day equivalent.
Our production is being impacted by mechanical issues at our Noonan well and some inter mid and third-party pipeline outages.
We also additionally have been advised that there will be some future schedule of third-party pipeline outages that will affect oil production including 10 to 12 days at our Phoenix field.
We continue to focus our capital dollars on oil projects in 2011 where we can develop our proved and probable undeveloped oil reserves.
A Little Burn completion in the Phoenix field is one of our key projects in 2011.
We currently have a rig on location completing the Little Burn well and expect to add an estimated 4500 barrels a day equivalent by mid year.
Little Burn well was drilled by BHP in 2005 part of hurricane Rita destroying the TLP structure.
The infrastructure is in place now to hook up the well quickly to the HP I.
We also have oil projects on the shelves we are developing in 2011 we currently have a rig on Eugene Island 302 which is finishing up the completion on a well that ERT drilled in early 2010.
We expect this well to add 800 barrels equivalent by mid year pendings BOEMRE approval for a sales pipeline.
Second we are currently mobilizing our platform rig to our South Marsh 130 field to workover 8 to 10 wells.
The well work program is targeting oil reservoirs behind pipe which have not been depleted.
ERT expects to add another 1000 barrels of oil a day production in 2011 from this workover program.
The follow-up on Tony’s earlier comments ERT’s oil production is primarily marketed with the Gulf Coast Cruise.
Current the Gulf Coast Cruise are trading at a premium when compared to WTI prices actually tracking closer to Brent pricing.
During the first quarter our oil price realization benefited by 3 million from this premium.
However we expect based on the current premium above WTI we estimate the benefit by as much as 10 to 15 million in the second quarter.
On the exploration front we have plans to participate in the drilling of two deepwater exploration wells contingent upon permit approval by the BOEMRE and rig availability.
The first prospect is Kathleen prospect in the Bushwood field.
The Kathleen well is a look-alike to our Danny oil well the permit has been filed with the BOEMRE.
And the second exploration well targets the Phoenix field our Wang prospect.
The well is targeting an untested section of the main field play which most of the other Phoenix wells produced from.
Currently ERT has 70% interest in the Wang well and the permit has not been filed yet though expected by the permit by mid year.
Both of these exploration wells discussed or in existing field with existing infrastructure to handle the production both target oil and they both carry a reasonable chance of success.
Over to you Lloyd.
Thanks Johnny.
Turning to slide 18.
Slide 18 represents our commodity hedge positions of volumes and prices for the balance of 2011 and 2012.
For 20 Bcfe equivalent hedge for the remainder of 2011 covers about 53% of our forecast combined production for April through December.
Of the approximate 20 Bcfe and hedges for the balance of this year the break down of 63% 37% gas and this is inline with our average daily production rate with two-thirds of our production coming from oil.
For 2012 we have hedged a portion of our estimated production and we'll continue to opportunistically put hedges in place to cover the majority of our forecast in production.
Turning over to slide 20.
Slide 20 profiles our current debt and liquidity position as of March 31.
In the first quarter we reduced net debt to $51 million from December 31 as our cash on hand increased correspondingly the 441 million (inaudible).
Based on our outlook for the balance of 2011 we expect further decreases in our net debt provision from the March 31 level.
Tony.
Turning to slide 22 where we have provided an updated overview for our outlook on 2011.
In general we have upgraded our outlook for 2011 for what we outlined a couple of months ago.
First we now forecast oil and gas production at 50 Bcfe up 1 Bcfe from our original forecast.
Our commodity price outlook net of hedges is $96 for oil and slightly better than $5 for gas.
On the oil side we are definitely benefiting from the Gulf Cruise pricing premium and on natural gas side we are benefiting from both our hedges and natural gas liquids by product production.
We now forecast EBITDA for 2011 at 550 million this is up considerably to the original outlook of 475 million and again up substantially from last year of 430 million.
CapEx spending is pegged at 250 million a slight increase in the power upgrades plan for the Caesar.
And as the level of EBITDA with the forecast to the level of CapEx for the year we should generate a nice amount of free cash flow in 2011 allowing us to increase for cash balances from the already healthy $441 million level at March 31.
Turning to slide 23 and 24 we provide little bit more color on our outlook.
On Contracting Services side we booked a nice level of backlog for our well intervention vessel the Q4000 is nearly fully booked for all of the year and both the Well Enhancer and the Seawell appearing a solid book of business as well.
Well both the Express and Intrepid have contracted backlog the permitting process in the Gulf of Mexico has frustrated our ability to put these vessels to work.
Nonetheless we expect the second half of the year for a Subsea construction business to be much better as permit start to get issued and this vessels go to work.
The Express is already back to work today.
As far as the Caesar goes we are in a way taking advantage of the slow activity levels in the Gulf to continue on with the power system upgrades for this vessel.
We expect that Caesar remain import to these upgrades through August.
Again our Robotics business most likely hit its low point in Q1 and the business outlook is much stronger for the rest of the year and as Owen said earlier we have now all five of our construction support vessels to work.
Oil and gas production forecast is 50 Bcfe as two critical assumptions no significant tropical storm activity in the Gulf of Mexico and the Little Burn production commencing mid year.
Again we have secured to permit to complete this well and Johnny said the rig is on location and working to do that.
Our CapEx of 250 million breaks down to 85 million for Contracting Services and 160 million for oil and gas.
And Contracting Services numbers contains little spending above the maintenance other than some upgrades for the HP I to enhance spill containment profile.
Some incremental investment in our historically profitable Robotics business and the power upgrades for the Caesar.
We have assumed no CapEx associated with the potential for the Cat B vessel for Statoil.
The major items in the oil and gas spending are 165 million includes the Little Burn completion and the drilling of the two exploratory wells that Johnny mentioned Kathleen in the Bushwood field and Wang in the Phoenix field.
Both of these exploratory wells targets oil and spending will be contingent upon securing the necessary drilling permits and I think it's important to point out our production forecast assumes no production from these wells in 2011.
Furthermore and as a result of the strong oil price environment we are quietly developing the Shelf field as Johnny mentioned earlier.
Back to you Lloyd.
Slide 26 and 27 our non-GAAP reconciliations schedule presented here for your reference.
I will not necessarily schedule the detail on the cal and at this time I will turn the call back over to Owen for his closing comments.
Owen.
Thanks Lloyd.
As Tony mentioned Helix reported strong first quarter and we are pleased to upgrade our outlook for the remainder of the year.
We have come a long way over the past few year's to streamline our business model and improve capital spending and discipline improve project execution and strengthen the balance sheet.
While the regulatory environment in the Gulf of Mexico presents a challenge to our entire industry our business model is growing more robust which enables us to weather such uncertainties and challenges competitively.
We are proud of what our teams have accomplished but there is still much to do and we will continue to reduce debt and make improvement in debt structure.
We will continue to aggressively pursue both opportunities particularly in low ops where Helix is not only the early adopter but also the clear global leader.
As you are aware we announced a little over a year ago that we have engaged advisors to assist us with evaluating potential alternatives for the sale of the oil and gas business.
About a month after that announcement our industry suffered the worst environmental and our operational disaster in the history of the Gulf when the Macondo well blew.
The regulatory hangover from that event has resulted us in a very challenging environment for the sale of our entire oil and gas business.
Meanwhile our favorable oil prices and strong production of Phoenix which had a very positive impact from our financial condition.
As a result of these factors we determine that we can build more value for the business and their shareholders by developing additional proved developed reserves and converting our high value PUDs.
That sets our plan for the remainder of the year pursued development of a portion of our significant PUD inventory and to drill some of our existing exploration prospects with the focus on oil to generate higher cash flow rather than selling the entire business at this time.
We will continue to evaluate the conventional sale of this specific properties as opportunities arise in which we deem to be in the best interest in terms of economic returns and risk mitigation.
We believe we can garner more value at this approach given the current regulatory environment favorable commodity prices and the size and quality of our PUD inventory.
I would also like to make a few comments on the status of the Statoil Cat B opportunity.
At the time of our year end call we were expecting a tender award announcement around the end of March.
That announcement has been pushed to the later part of this year as Statoil’s requested the competitors undertake advanced engineering studies related to the riser stack.
We have agreed to engage in the feed study and maintain our competitive position in this complex bidding process and we will keep you continually informed of progress as we work through it.
This will be the largest project that Helix has ever undertaken which help to reinforce our global leadership and well intervention.
It's an important opportunity but it's not our only opportunity.
Well intervention is important to the future of our company.
Helix is the global leader in this space and we intent to maintain this competitive position.
So we will continue to build the liquidity necessary to fund our future growth and reduce our debt level.
We cut our net debt in half in little over two year's and we won’t try to reduce that position further in 2011.
The takeaway for this quarter is that Helix is executing a strategic transformation building a strong balance sheet fortifying it's competitive position and delivering quality earnings in a challenging environment.
We look forward to the future with this confidence and optimism.
And with that I will turn it back over to the operator for Q&amp;A.
Owen after a touch and go four or five years here you're looking awfully brilliant with the hybrid contracting E&amp;P model for the first quarter I can remember.
Sounds a little like you're rethinking the whole let's divest of E&amp;P and go to a straight contracting model.
Am I reading that right? We are first and foremast Marshall service contracting company and we are getting back there right now though cash and value is king we have a balance sheet that needs restoration for us to really take advantage of the growth opportunities we have in from well intervention.
And it's the matter of being flexible and we are responding to the market in the manner that generates the highest level of cash and value and that’s what gets us to the end game the fastest.
Well it certainly showed up this quarter.
Fill me in on your optimism for the contracting side.
I know we've had a few permits here issued in the Gulf but it sounds like you're starting to see other stuff.
Is that the international market coming through or maybe just share with me what you think the time lag will be between these permits getting issued and that leading to eventual work for your asset? It's sort of interesting and I may or may not be right in this but the documents surely definitely in a big swamp because of the lack of drilling.
If you were to start drilling at normal permitted levels today you are probably looking at 2013 before a normalization in the market.
Now that sound a bad quarter for us here on the contracting side which we anticipated but I think one thing the consequence of that is that with the international markets remaining robust I think the competition is more keen to deploy assets elsewhere which is given us the opportunity to actually have a little better visibility on utilizing our assets here in the Gulf than what we might have expected looking forward from the fourth quarter of last year.
So I’m not predicting great things it's going to be bad in the Gulf of Mexico but probably not as bad as we were anticipating in the fourth quarter.
So it sounds like really the international market picking up is tightening the whole system and you're certainly seeing that reflected in your order book or however you want to phrase it right now.
I think we are starting to see the visibility of utilization pick up for the rest of the year and that would be my best guess as to what to attribute it to.
Last question for me.
I know you've been somewhat coy on this in the past.
Help us to understand pricing for the well system that's being bid for all these permits.
What are you getting out of that and/or it seems as if the competing system doesn't have the surface storage facilities that you have.
Could you comment on how your system shapes up versus the Exxon-lead group whatever that's called? Let me take the proceeds that we are receiving from large consortium group first.
We rather not get into the details of how much are being spend but it's not a company maker.
We are basically our assets are here they are working the HP I and the Q4000 which are the target based system they are working.
So we are basically making them available to the consortium in order to get the industry going again.
How we are doing that is a little different from the MWCC the philosophy or the approach is we are looking at existing assets and what can we mobilize in the fastest way possible.
Now that may not be a system that’s all inclusive of every well that everyone wants to drill in the Gulf but it covers the predominant number and gets the industry moving again.
Whereas I believe the MWCC is taking a little broader stroke at it creating a system with more capacity probably slower in responding.
So I think between the two systems there is an application which is focusing on what can we do today and what can we get out in the fastest way possible.
That being said we are being paid a retainer by the consortium a stand-by retainer.
Right.
But the preponderance of your business is not going to be that.
It's just the add-on.
Right.
Like I said it's not a company maker.
Everyone shouldn’t read too much into that retainer.
Well it's good to see the hard work pay off this quarter.
Thanks guys.
Thanks Marshall.
The next question comes from the line of Roger Read with Morgan Keegan.
Please proceed.
Keegan</strong> Hey good morning guys.
Good morning.
Keegan</strong> Like Marshall said congratulations on having the right business model here.
(Inaudible).
Keegan</strong> Story of my golf game anyway.
On the oil and gas production side in the second quarter can we get a little bit more clarity on the impact of the pipeline issues and is that pretty much a Q2 event Q2 and Q3 spread out throughout the year? I just wanted to kind of help understand how the quarters roll out within that 50b number.
In terms of production Roger I will give you a broad conceptually you expect to see because of natural declines and the other issues Johnny mentioned too will come down a bit.
Q3 will recover as Little Burn comes on the production and some of the Shelf development work we’re doing also comes on.
And then I think you see quarter four take maybe a slight dip from Q3.
So generally speaking our highest quarter could be quarter three depended upon how Little Burn comes on but Q2 it will come down again because of natural declines.
Okay.
Keegan</strong>  Okay.
Kind of using the 160 to 140 change we've seen so far?  Yes.
Keegan</strong> As an indicator? As an indicator yes.
Although as Johnny said some of that decrease from 160 140 is coming from production problems at Noonan and I guess the silver lining in that is gas.
Keegan</strong> I understand.
0wen probably a question for you.
I understand all challenges in the Gulf the repositioning of the Intrepid here this summer.
What else as you look globally and clearly globally we haven't had the same challenges in the deepwater drilling side what can you do what would you be willing to do in terms of maybe it's the Caesar since it's clearly not going to be working until the latter part of the year anyway but do you move one of these vessels overseas on a semi permanent basis until the Gulf shows significant recovery in drilling and then the follow-on construction work? Well the Caesar I think has always been a global asset.
So that drive will move globally.
The others I wouldn’t say a permanent move I think I described it as we are looking to work with other contractors more closely in a range maybe taking the assets out of Gulf on campaign basis.
Which the Intrepid already is schedule to work in California in the back half of the year already is subject to permitting but we already got the Intrepid moving out of the Gulf and the Express is working on projects assets bidding on projects outside the Gulf.
Keegan</strong> Roughly close to the Gulf in the sense of Trinidad or should we think of it as truly the Middle East or Asia Pacific or something like that? Everywhere.
Keegan</strong> Okay.
And then the final question Owen you mentioned as you looked at that time E&amp;P business you'd love to sell as one piece but maybe not in terms of what the market will allow today but what sort of interest have you had or have you very much marketed the business at this point in terms of selling particular portions or as we saw a few years ago when interests were sold within some of your deepwater portfolio? Just give us an idea of maybe what you're looking at as a way to continue to monetize the business.
Well I think it's a difficult market at best to monetize Gulf of Mexico based E&amp;P business.
I think specific to our properties though you have to consider the 60% of proven reserves our PUD.
So the value equation generally the debt that we ran up in order to drill them the value equation for what we can get for a PUD makes it's a questionable proposition eventually in a tough market.
PDP our proven developed producing is from the comp deal that we have seen is still carry a relatively robust value.
So I think the better long-term value for us would be to continue to look for opportunities to sell packages of PDP which we were doing for the last few year's and is the normal part of our business.
We then reallocate the capital to PUD conversion to PDP and I think what you wind up with is some pretty positives free cash flow over the near-term without any diminishing of the value of the remaining portfolio.
So I think for the long-term value it makes sense to pull that from marketing the whole thing right now selling down PDP and then concentrating on PUD conversion.
Keegan</strong> Okay thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Michael Marino with Stephens Incorporated.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
Just to follow-up on the last question and comment can you all I guess implement the well intervention growth strategy that you've outlined in the past without selling the E&amp;P properties in a lump sum approach? In that regard can you walk me through the free cash flow profile in the back half of the year and how you get balance sheet to that point?  Yes we have modeled this out Michael and we have lot of forward-looking assumptions that go into this thinking that could change radically but we believe we can implement our well intervention growth strategy with or without a sale of E&amp;P.
First of all I mean we consider the fact that we have $837 million of liquidity that’s a good starting point right there.
Secondly think about the cash flow generating from the E&amp;P business today.
So we are generating a healthy amounts of free cash flow from the E&amp;P business and we have always said to ourselves internally here that our development of our E&amp;P properties has be self funding.
So we are never going to aggressively spend on E&amp;P side to the extended taxes or balance sheet again.
So I think we got our balance sheet in a shape that gives us a lot of optionality and what we do in terms of growing the service business.
And right now I believe the E&amp;P business is a positive contributor to that.
Now again if ever got down to $40 oil it would be a different story but then lot of things will be different at $40 oil.
So again as Owen said earlier we worked very hard to get our balance sheet in shape to give us maximum optionality.
And I think we are there.
And we are not finished we will grow even more liquidity by year-end.
Can you walk me through those numbers? I see the CapEx guidance because some of that CapEx could potentially get pushed out a little bit further so that CapEx number is probably a little bit conservative from a free cash flow standpoint anyway.
Yes I think simple math Michael to generate 550 million of EBITDA and spend 250 million in CapEx that leaves us with 300 million and then you got interest and tax to pay and whatever assumptions you want to use on that we will see that it will generate some nice free cash flow this year.
But I guess taxes should be minimum right cash taxes and then the CapEx number is probably a little bit inflated because you do assume drilling two exploratory wells that may or may not happen right? That’s in a number that isn’t definitely in a number of 250 million which not in that number is P&amp;A’s we plan to do 40 to 50 million of P&amp;A’s this year.
As we try to stay on top of our abandonment obligation.
But no matter which way you cut it we are going to generate a nice amount of free cash flow this year.
Okay that's helpful.
Shifting gears to the contracting business are there specific regions out there that give you more optimism? Is it Brazil? Is it Australia? Is it just a global up tick in activity?  Well contracting does first and foremost means well intervention.
So I mean you have to sort to break it down in this components well intervention in the North Sea is robust Norway obviously is a big opportunity market for us that we are pursuing pretty hard.
Brazil is another area where we are in dialogue and we love to penetrate that market.
I think there following we were paying in the last couple of year's in the Asia Pacific market where now we have a good presence in China.
And I think recovery in that market is particularly potential for this year not tremendous close but at least a recovery.
Having said that moving on to Robotics I think our Robotics is perhaps our most global business and we are pretty well positioned with good contacts pursuing everything west Africa has been really strong market in recent year's for us and I think you see us increased our participation there and then really exciting is the fact that more and more opportunities are presenting themselves outside of the oil and gas for Robotics group with the wind farm and the new trencher that we have coming online that’s being built currently for burial of cables in the wind farms.
It's really only the pipelay of part of the business that gives us a little bit of a challenge there and we are not going to do something crazy and try and go out and take on contracts that we shouldn’t be taking on internationally.
But we are going to be patient and there is upside there but like I said before I think you will see us working more hand-in-hand with other contractors and trying to achieve some better utilization for the pipelay asset.
Are you any more optimistic as it relates to the Caesar than you were three months ago? Three months ago we saw no projects opportunities.
Now we actually do have some good stability of projects on the horizon the question is how do we do up then and go after them.
So things have improved I’d said marginally for the season.
Great.
That's helpful thanks.
The next question comes from the line of Joe Gibney with Capital One Southcoast.
Please proceed.
Thanks good morning.
Just had a couple questions on the marine side vessel specific on the Intrepid.
I was just curious you referenced the Eugene Island work.
I was curious how long the mobilization would be how long off charter would be before it kicks in this job in California.
I believe if I recall a schedule correctly the Intrepid schedule go out to Eugene Island and June Johnny? (Inaudible).
For the oil line then it's supposed to from that point on sale of the California.
I believe that because for the end of June so we might have a weaker (inaudible).
But that’s how it goes.
I think it's next job internally for ERT on the oil line for Eugene Island 302 and then of course you said sell for California.
Okay.
That's helpful.
In terms of the Robotics recovery appreciate the color on the five chartered vessels back to work.
Just trying to understand when that actually happened in the quarter.
Is it a fair characterization to say that 2Q is a bit of a bridge quarter in that recovery and you've got a little bit more sustained momentum and higher utilization outlook for robotics in the back half of the year? Is that a fair characterization just looking at it sequentially into Q2? Yes I think the Robotics business itself and we don’t separately disclose numbers for it but I think you will see that those numbers will improve notably in Q2.
So the improvement when to say is a full quarter but almost the fourth quarter.
That’s helpful.
Sure that's helpful.
And just one last one.
Owen you've referenced even consistent cash and extracting value on the model here and obviously being able to adapting to market conditions with balance sheet emphasis.
Against that backdrop could you talk a little bit about your approach to additional hedging as you look at 2012 and you look at the E&amp;P business? We are pretty aggressively looking at hedging by corporate policy were limited to hedging 75% of our forecasting PDP.
And we tend to try to push that we as long the scrip or the hedge price that we can achieve is greater than our budgeted forecast then we look at it as capital preservation and we are inclined to later in the hedges and we are layering in continually right now we are layering in starting for 2012 we are layering in.
Very helpful.
Thank you.
Congratulations on the quarter.
Thanks.
The next question comes from the line of Martin Malloy with Johnson Rice.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
Could you talk about opportunities for another well intervention vessel? If you could do one in addition to the potential Cat B1 for Statoil or if the Statoil potential ward keeps getting pushed out could you go forward on another new well intervention Q4000 type vessel? I think we have the capacity to do so and we have got the optionality of doing it with people of financing opportunities are there.
So I say definitely we have the optionality to consider it.
What would be some of the key factors in terms of deciding to move forward on something like that? Primarily assurance of generating the returns on the capital invested sufficient to one day investment and it have to be a pretty strong guarantee.
Okay.
And then just on the production facilities the revenue and profit gross profit contribution during the first quarter is that a good run rate approximate run rate to think about for the rest of the year? I’m sorry Marty if you can repeat that again I’m sure I was clear on that? Sure.
On the production facilities the revenue and gross profit contribution that we saw in the first quarter is that a good run rate to think about for the rest of the year? I’d say it's going to be higher the rest of the year because of the retainer on the Helix contained system.
Okay.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Philip Dodge with Tuohy Brothers.
Please proceed.
Good morning everybody.
Thanks.
Wanted to ask you on the Phoenix production being better than expected so far would that support an increase in estimated reserves for Phoenix?  This is Johnny Edwards.
We will be looking at that at the mid year reserve report and I can’t say it's a absolute certain but I’d say there is a good chance will be increasing reserves there mid year.
Good.
Okay.
And then also on production do you have an estimate of your production profile spending what you're spending this year and risk adjusting the exploration any way you want? I’m not sure I followed.
Could you repeat that? Yes I guess it's a forecast of production with one of the metrics being the spending in 2011.
I know some of that is exploration so it's not easy but maybe risk adjust that.
None of the exploration is factored into the production profile.
And we look at the risk of our I call it our Shelf projects and we risk weight that just for example at South Marsh 130 I believe we may have risk weighted that and 70 80% range because it's fairly certain but there is mechanical risk.
So yes we do risk weighted and but no we don’t include non-proved reserves in the forecast.
And with that approach would you expect to maintain production raise it or where would you see that headed?  For 2011 or for 2012? Well just looking forward Tony.
I guess we're pretty firm on 2011 but just medium term.
Well I think the way you can look at this is it's the balance between capital reinvestment rate free cash flow.
I personally I think the right way to look at it is to assume flat production annual production going forward.
And we will match our capital with what is required to do that and allocate the remaining free cash flow for other purposes.
Okay thanks Owen.
The next question comes from the line of Stephen Gengaro with Jefferies.
Please proceed.
Thanks.
Good morning gentlemen.
A couple of things the first being on your guidance I was trying to back into this a little bit but given your production guidance can you give us a sense for what you're looking at for contracting services because it seems like when I put the pieces together I'm getting a higher number than your EBITDA gets? Well Stephen that’s a question I would just answer it by saying it anything we said three months ago and that is there is opportunities to do better I think the star is aligned and things happened the right way we can improve on that number.
But you have to sort of risk the number which we have got.
But that’s probably why you are coming up with maybe a higher number Stephen.
Okay guys.
Now it just seems like thinking about the first quarter thinking about the moving pieces the number seems to go up more than you suggested.
(inaudible).
You have risk some of this I mean we risk some at a production.
There are natural declines things have to go right if Little Burn doesn’t come on by mid July and there is no reason it shouldn’t because we are on location with the rig we are actually performing the completion as we speak.
But things go wrong in this business and we don’t want to disappoint.
Okay.
No that's fair.
I just want to make sure I was thinking about it correctly.
And then when we think about the assets the potential asset sale and where you stand on it now can you just give us a sense for the way you're looking at it with a little more detail because it seems like given what it's done in this recent quarter and given the trajectory of production it may be actually the right time to sell it as opposed to the wrong time? Yes Stephen I think in another way to look at this is based on what we are seeing in the sale process the buyer universe is suffering from Macondo hangover in terms of how they are looking at this valuation lines.
In other words there is a huge disconnect between current commodity price level and what buyers are willing to pay.
To the point where that diversion is so great we think we are doing our shareholders a favor by being more patient here and taking approach that Owen outlined which is PUD conversions and maximizing a cash flow from existing production.
So I don’t know when that Macondo hangover subsides but it’s certainly present today.
Having said that I might just say we used to have a saying in ERT that when we can realize full value of a property we will divest it I mean that’s been a modus operandi for 20 year's.
And I think the best we have sold the ERT was back when we had $140 oil.
So I think there is a lesson learned there that there is a sell-by date on certain things.
I just don’t think that today is a day to do it and we have sometime and I think the market is going to improve to see a better opportunity.
Now once you go down the road of selling PDP and you started diminishing the critical mass of the proved reserves unless you are going to offset those reserves you have a critical mass issue which sort of puts you into you got to sell it by package.
But right now I’m very happy with where we are and I think of the future of our production as well as it's marketable is still ahead.
Okay.
No that's very helpful.
That helps clear it up.
And then just one final one just to help me a little bit with the model please say you can on the E&amp;P side you mentioned your operating costs went down on a per unit basis sequentially.
How should we think about that number going forward? Without getting too precise you went from 3.17 to 2.87.
That obviously helped the profitability.
How should we think about that directionally over the next couple quarters given what you said about some of the guidance on the production levels over the next several quarters? I would look at more at the absolute dollars more than the dollar per Mcfe because thee is not a lot of variation in those cost you can see I fourth quarter 2010 we were 43 versus 41.
And those numbers will as production goes up and down those won’t go up and down as much so I would look for the constant dollars more than I would the dollar per Mcf that’s a better gauge.
Good.
That's helpful and it's simpler so thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Joe Mervar with Aluma Sales.
Please proceed.
Thank you for taking my question.
Production volumes out of Phoenix look they were flat throughout Q1 and for the first 22 days of April it looks like the volumes are down 15 16%.
Could you break down the decline between those items you've previously mentioned  mechanical issues or pipeline and that which would be more related to a natural field decline? Thank you.
When Phoenix came on in the fourth quarter we were getting some good flush production which came back without a lot of water and then early January we got the fourth well on which boosted our rates back up.
But over the quarter we saw that same decline rate we haven’t seen like a drop at the end of the quarter that was a constant decline that was happening over the quarter and that’s what we have declined to from January 1st to April 1st there is an average in there.
That was decline going on during the whole first quarter so that wasn’t a drop in April.
Okay.
And then that 10 to 12 days will come later in Q2 the 10 or 12 days production will be off-line? Well we didn’t specifically state Q2 because we don’t have us we have a estimate from the pipeline company that are reconnecting some damage gas lines and end of Q2 and it could drag the Q3.
So we didn’t specify the specific date or the quarter that that would occur in but the 12 days is mainly for reconnection of the gas sales line.
And like Q2 or Q3.
Thanks.
And there are no further questions.
I’d like to just finish with one comment about of it's sort of connector with some of the question spending cash is what got us in to the position we are in.
Cash gets us back out whether or not that derive from free cash flow of monetization event that really depended on the value proposition of what’s available at the time.
I think we have a done a fairly good job of putting the health back into the balance sheet that could provide us the flexibility that we need in order to be able to seek the best value for the shareholders and it's a fluid situation that’s what we are trying to give.
Okay.
With that thanks everyone for joining us today we very much appreciate your interest and look forward to having you participate on our second quarter call in a few months.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the review of the second quarter 2011 results and the 2011 outlook with investors conference call.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded Tuesday July 26 2011.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Stephen Powers Director of Finance and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
Here with me this morning is Owen Kratz our CEO; Tony Tripodo our Chief Financial Officer; Cliff Chamblee EVP of Contracting Services; Johnny Edwards Executive Vice President of Oil &amp; Gas; Alisa Johnson our General Counsel and Lloyd Hajdik Senior VP of Finance.
A special introduction to the investment community is Cliff Chamblee who may be new to the position of Executive Vice President of Contracting Services but a very familiar hand around Helix.
He has been with the company since 1997 most recently serving as President of our successful Robotics business Canyon Offshore.
Hopefully you’ve had a chance and you’ve had an opportunity to review our press release and the related slide presentation release last night.
If you do not have a copy of these materials both can be accessed through the investor relations page on our Web site at www.helixesg.com.
The press release can be accessed under the press releases tab and the slide presentation can be accessed by clicking on today’s Webcast icon.
Before we begin our prepared remarks Alisa Johnson will make a statement regarding forward-looking information.
Alisa? During this conference call we anticipate making certain projections and forward-looking statements based on our current expectations.
All statements in this conference call or in the associated presentation other than statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements and are made under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Our actual future results may differ materially from our projections and forward-looking statements due to a number and variety of factors including those set forth in Slide 2 and in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2010.
Also during this call certain non-GAAP financial disclosures may be made.
And in accordance with SEC rules final slides of our presentation materials provide a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP measures to comparable GAAP financial measures.
The reconciliation along with this presentation and the earnings press release our annual report and the replay of this broadcast are available on our Web site.
Tony? All right.
Good morning everyone.
Moving on to Slide 5 which summarize the second quarter results.
We reported a nice increase in earnings and EBITDA for quarter two with earnings of $0.39 and EBITDA rise to $276 million up from the $149 million in the prior quarter.
Quarter two’s revenues increased 30% over quarter one primarily related to a sharp increase in our Well Intervention and Robotics businesses.
Oil and gas revenues grew slightly over quarter one as higher realized oil prices offset the expected natural decline in production.
Looking back to a year ago Q2’s ‘11 represented a sharp increase in earnings revenues and EBITDA mainly driven by higher oil production and higher oil prices.
Over to Slides 6 and 7 in addition to the nice uptick in earnings the company’s financial condition continues to strengthen.
In quarter two we repaid a $109 million of our term loan and at the same time upsized our revolving credit facility to $600 million.
We also extended the maturity of our remaining term loan and the credit facility to July 15 and under certain circumstances the maturity will fall to 2016.
Along with cash on hand the $414 million at June 30 and available credit facility our total liquidity at June 30 increased nicely to $965 million.
Our oil and gas production in the second quarter averaged a 139 million cubic feet equivalent a day.
While lower than the 160 million cubic feet equivalent in the first quarter due to natural decline rates production exceeded our own expectations due to better than expected well performance in the Phoenix field.
Total production in the second quarter managed (inaudible) cubic feet equivalent.
The Little Burn well was successfully completed in late-May.
Production of this well in the Phoenix field through the Helix Producer I commenced on a sustained basis in the last few days slightly delayed due to the need to secure regulatory approvals for scheduled downtime on the third party operated export pipeline servicing the Phoenix field.
Our overall production levels to July 24 averaged just a 114 million cubic feet equivalent a day due to the pipeline downtime serving the Phoenix field for approximately 10 days.
However the pipeline is now back in service and with Phoenix ramping back up we expected to exit July with a production rate of approximately 155 million cubic feet equivalent a day.
I will now turn the call over to Cliff for an in-depth discussion of our Contracting Services results.
Okay.
Thanks Tony.
Good morning everyone.
Let’s move on over to Slide #9.
The Contracting Service revenues picked up considerably in the second quarter despite the continued weakness in the subsea construction market in the Gulf of Mexico.
The incremental improvements since Quarter 1 is primarily attributed to the improved ROV support plus utilization of 99% in the second quarter versus 65% in the first quarter as well as the 12% improvement in well intervention and vessel utilization from 77% in Quarter 1 to 89% in the second quarter.
Margins also improved sequentially as a result of these increased utilizations as well as the addition of (inaudible) system retainer fee.
So moving on to Slide 10 this slide shows the equity-earnings contribution of Independence Hub Marco Polo and the Clough Helix Joint Venture.
The results (inaudible) system for the first quarter so I’ll leave the slide for you guys’ reference.
Moving on to Slide Number 11.
As I mentioned before our Well Intervention business achieved 89% utilization in the second quarter and Q4000 worth of various projects were shelved throughout the quarter with minimal downtime for minor repairs and maintenance.
Utilization in the North Sea improved from 68% in the first quarter to 87% in the second quarter.
As a result fewer downtime days were repairs and maintenance.
Contracting activity remained strong for the Q4000 the Seawell and the Well Enhancer and we maintained a strong visible backlog for all three vessels for the remainder of the year.
Normand Clough continued to work on a day-rate construction project in China through their Clough Helix Joint Venture which started in the first quarter this year and was scheduled to run through the third quarter this year.
Moving on to Slide 12.
As we mentioned in our previous call the first quarter was a slow period for the Robotics business but it has since rebounded quite nicely.
During the second quarter we kept all (inaudible) business in achieving 99% utilization and continued to improve (inaudible) structure utilization particularly in Europe and West Africa.
While the Gulf of Mexico continues to be a challenge for us.
Our Robotics group truly is a global operation with over two-thirds of the revenues coming outside of the Gulf of Mexico each year.
While geographic reach has been instrumental to the resilience of this business we believe that diversification of our services are offering us key to future growth.
We completed upgrade of our two road-drill units during the quarter and are working with four of them on subsea coring projects in the coming months and we’re excited about the opportunities in this area.
You may also have noticed that on the cover page this quarter of the score of the slide deck there’s a picture of offshore wind turbines in them.
This boat is one of our chartered construction vessels the Deep Cygnus (inaudible) offshore wind farm project in the U.K.
sector of the North Sea.
We believe there’s substantial growth and opportunity in offshore new energy markets supporting windfarm development projects the entrenching cable burrow.
We’ve begun making investments to achieve a leadership position in this area.
We’re currently constructing a new jet venture the T1200 which will be packaged up next year with our other trenching and oil vee equipment aboard a new charter vessel that’s specially built for us.
This will be a most sophisticated and capable trenching spread in the world and we believe sufficient demand of potential returns to make this significant growth catalyst of our modest business in the coming years.
So over to Slide 13.
Our Sub-sea Construction business continues to lag as a result of a weak market in the Gulf of Mexico.
Pald utilization for the Express and the Intrepid are improving and the combined backlog has doubled over the past quarter.
It’s important to note that while permitting activity has improved our customers are subject to permitting requirements for most projects so scheduling has been problematic.
That said the Express has achieved 82% utilization in the second quarter and our backlog is growing and now includes projects in the North Sea next year.
The Intrepid was dockside for most of the second quarter but went back to work the last couple weeks of the quarter.
She is scheduled to perform some diving work for Chevron in the third quarter before deploying her to California.
Last but not least the Caesar remained dockside in Mobile through the quarter and her planned maintenance and upgrades continue.
So on to Slide 14.
This slide illustrates the design of our deep-water containment system.
The Helix Fast Response System.
During the second quarter we received our first quarter retainer fee from a consortium of 24 defendants including the system upgrades for a 15 000 PSI wellcap that’s capable of operating in water depths of up to 10 000 feet.
That’s an improvement of over 5 000 feet and 5 000 PSI and 2 000 feet that we had previously.
Moving on to Slide 15.
This slide shows the utilization we’ve achieved in the contracting services services assets in the second quarter.
I’ll leave that for your guys’ reference and turn that over to Johnny now for the lower GAAP business.
Good morning.
Please turn to Slide 16.
Slide 16 and 17 provide the financial highlights for the oil and gas for the second quarter.
Additional details are provided in the footnotes for your review.
As Tony mentioned earlier oil and gas revenues were up slightly over Q1 due to higher net realized oil prices.
The production for Q2 was 12.7 days compared to 14.4 Bcf equivalent in Q1 and the Q2 production was better than expected with shelf production almost flat to Q1.
The better than expected second quarter results of oil and gas were mainly attributable to the performance of two of our fields.
On the shelf we worked on five wells in South Marshall in thirty field in Q2 and oil sales from the small 130 field increased by over 50% from Q1 to Q2.
In deep water the Phoenix field had four producing wells in Q2.
These wells outperformed our expectations which resulted in over 60% increase in the PDP reserves at our midyear review.
We completed the Little Burn well in Phoenix field in Q2.
This well adds about 4 000 barrels of oil equivalent net to ERT which will bring our net Phoenix production rate back to over 12 000 barrels a day.
We recently came up to full rate in our Phoenix field.
As Tony mentioned the gas oil pipeline was down for approximately 10 days this month for a scheduled re-route of the pipeline.
The full Little Burn production the total net production rate approximates 155 million and this is about 70% oil.
We continue to focus our capital dollars on oil projects in 2011 where we can develop our approved and probable undeveloped oil reserves.
As part of our oil and gas CapEx budgeted at $165 million we have two shale properties scheduled to start up in the second half of this year.
Eugene Island 302 is expected to add about 800 barrels equivalent per day net in the third quarter.
We have already set a platform completed the well in Q2 and we’re waiting on the BOEMRE permit to install the sales line.
Startup is expected in Q3.
We’re installing a platform and facility in South 86 in Q3 which added 500 barrels in Q4 and allows us to drill two oil PUDs in 2012.
On the exploration front we have plans to participate in the drilling of two Deepwater exploration wells contingent on permit approval by the BOEMRE and rig availability.
The first prospect is Kathleen in the Bushwood field and the Kathleen well is a look-alike to our Danny oil well.
The permit has been filed with the BOE.
The second exploration well targets the Wang prospect in the Phoenix field and the well is targeting an untested section of the main field play from which most of the other Phoenix wells produce.
The permit has not been filed yet but we expect to file soon.
Both of these exploration wells target oil in existing fields with existing infrastructure to handle the production.
Over to you Lloyd.
Thanks Johnny.
Turning to Slide 18.
Slide 18 details our commodity hedge position for a significant portion of our forecasted production for the second half of 2011 through December 2012.
The 13.5 Bcfe hedge for the remainder of 2011 covers about 60% of our forecasted combined production.
And since we are weighted about two-thirds to oil production our remaining 2011 hedges are broken down about 68% for oil and 32% for gas.
In the second quarter we layered in additional hedge contracts for 2012 for both oil and gas.
Further we entered into some collar crude oil contracts based on Brent Crude Pricing.
We did this to better correlate our financial hedges against the actual pricing we were receiving for our GOM crude sales and will continue to opportunistically hedge our forecasted 2012 production depending on the current commodities markets.
Turn over to Slide 20.
Slide 20 profiles our current debt and liquidity position at June 30.
And as Tony mentioned earlier in June we amended our senior credit agreement to among other things extend the maturity date for both the term loan and the revolver and to increase the capacity of the revolver from $435 million to $600 million.
We repaid $109 million of the term loan and ended the second quarter with net debt of $833 million a decrease of $83 million from the first quarter.
And given the term loan payment total cash decreased $27 million in the second quarter but our liquidity position increased $128 million to $965 million at June 30 with the increase in capacity of our revolver.
And based on our outlook for the balance of 2011 we expect further decrease in our net debt position from the June 30 level.
Tony? Okay.
I’m going to turn to Slide 22 now which outlines our updated outlook for the year.
First all our oil and gas production forecast remains at 50 Bcfe in 2011 which is up from the original 2011 outlook of 29 Bcfe equivalent.
Again this forecast assumes no significant disruption caused by tropical storm activity in the Gulf of Mexico.
Forecast oil and gas price net of hedges at $95 a barrel for oil and 543 Mcfe for gas.
On the oil side we’re definitely benefiting from the Gulf crude pricing premium over West Texas Intermediate.
And on the natural gas side we’re benefiting from both our hedges in natural gas liquids byproduct production.
Due to the better than expected performance in Q2 and the improving outlook for our contracting services business we now forecast EBITDA at $575 million in 2011 which is up considerably from the original outlook of $475 million and up from the outlook we presented at the Q1 conference call of $550 million.
You will note a plus sign on the slide next to the EBITDA forecast which suggests we have upside potential in the 575 number.
Again the big variable that could impact this number to the downside would be significant disruption to our oil and gas business caused by tropical storm activity.
Capital spending’s pegged at $275 million a slight increase due to planned spending on well intervention equipment upgrades and engineering work on potential future well intervention assets.
However no fleet expansion’s planned at this time.
At the level of EBITDA and with the forecasted level of CapEx for the year we should continue to generate free cash flow for the second half of 2011 allowing us to further reduce our net debt position from June 30th.
Owen? I’d just add a little more color on the outlook.
On the contracting service side we booked a nice level of backlog for our Well intervention vessels.
The Q4000 is nearly fully booked for all of the year and both the Enhancer and the Seawell are carrying a solid book of business as well.
As previously mentioned backlog for both the Express and the Intrepid has picked up.
Both vessels are now working in the Gulf of Mexico and we still expect the Intrepid to sail for California later in Q3 subject to customer permitting.
In addition we’ve secured work for the Express in the North Sea next year.
We’re – and finally we’re not counting on putting the Caesar to work this year after she completes her planned shipyard upgrades.
In Canyon our Robotics business is seeing a marked increase in activity in Q2 trenching for the Renewable Energy business in Europe has opened up a new and exciting growth path for our Robotics business.
The assets and operating know how for subsea oil field trenching and burial apply as well to the offshore renewable energy and we’re keen to pursue and expand in this space.
Our CapEx of $275 million breaks down to $110 million for Contracting Services and $165 million for oil and gas.
The Contracting Services number of contains maintenance capital some upgrades to the HP1 to enhance its build containment profile some incremental investment in our historically profitable Robotics business and the thruster upgrade for the Caesar.
Major items in the oil and gas spending of $165 million includes the Little Burn completion which is now finished and the drilling of two exploratory wells the Kathleen well and the Bushwood Peeled and the Wang well in the Phoenix field.
Both of these exploratory wells target oil and spending will be contingent upon securing the necessary drilling permits.
In fact just this morning we have received the permit for Kathleen.
So this is a nice positive for the outlook.
Further and as a result of strong oil price environment we’re quietly developing the shale fields as Johnny mentioned earlier.
So now back to you Lloyd.
Slide 26 and 27 are a non-GAAP reconciliation schedule percent for your reference here.
I will not go over these schedules in detail.
I’ll turn the call back over to Owen for closing comments.
All right well I’ll debrief.
It was a good quarter and there’s further upside potential.
We’re pleased with a continuing improvement.
Not only in our work performance but also in the fundamentals of our financial health and positioning for the future.
This is especially true since this is all occurring during a very difficult market with uncertain regulatory environment.
Our people quite honestly have just been doing a great job.
There’s still upside room for improvement and better results can be generated from our current asset base.
First our pipe lay assets are contributing very little in this market but there’s indicators to suggest a return of enough of a market for us to push better returns.
Second our oil – our Well Ops division in Southeast Asia is now positioned for improved returns.
Third Canyon is performing well but in a weak market.
Not only do we expect the market to improve but Canyon also has some exciting potential in support of the renewable energy market.
This market is increasingly drawing on traditional oil and gas contractors to apply the technology to the renewable industry.
Fourth on the production side we have – we’ve initiated a program to convert existing PUD reserves to PDP.
We expect to be able to hold annual production at approximately the current levels as well as generate free cash flow.
This conversion of PUD to PDP should enhance the volume of the remaining reserves.
We will continue to seek buyers for some of our fields when the economics can be achieved as we’ve always done historically in the past.
Finally we now have greater flexibility under our newly amended credit facility that’ll allow us to consider further debt repayment that should have a positive impact on future earnings.
Beyond these inherent growth potentials we’re pursuing some exciting growth initiatives such as the Cat B vessel opportunity for Norway as well as other opportunities.
Our financial position will continue to improve allowing us to take advantage of these opportunities as they’re secured.
Things look good now but potentially brighter ahead.
And with that I’ll turn it back over to the operator for Q&amp;A.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from the line of Jim Rollyson with Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
It seems like Marine is kind of improving a little bit better maybe than expected.
And obviously you’re starting to build some backlog for things second half and even into next year.
Can you talk a little bit about just kind of the pricing and margin outlook at least relative to our expectations? Margins came in pretty strong this quarter compared to last quarter for sure.
And I’m kind of curious as to how you see margins trending over the next two or three quarters.
And are we starting to get enough bidding activity that there’s room for that to improve? Or it’s mostly just on utilization that margins have picked up so far? Well I’ll let Cliff take that.
But I’ll just start by saying that I think the market is still very very tough right now.
I really attribute our quarter to the performance pick-up and the efforts of the people we have here at Helix.
But I’ll let Cliff comment more on what he sees out – ahead in the market.
Yeah on the Contracting side I think – but just from the roll-off side it’s just utilization that’s driving that.
Where the downside is we mentioned is in the Gulf of Mexico.
So the utilization is still pretty low there.
But it’s starting to come back.
So on the subsea construction side pipeline side we’re starting to pick up utilization there.
Not great margins but we are up – to do – our backlog filling up.
We are starting to increase those margins in the digital going forward.
And on the canyon side it’s primarily due to the West Africa North Sea and a little bit of Asia stuff – the Gulf of Mexico for the canyon side – for the product side is still pretty weak.
So getting a little bit better it sounds like.
Yeah.
Jim I’ll add a comment here on margins.
I think utilizations is definitely the key factor driving margins today.
But I would say based on what we’re sensing in terms of rates and pricing there’s probably a tendency more in the future on the upside than the downside.
On the Grand Canyon charter that you guys have coming in next is that replacing any of your existing charter vessels? Or is that completely incremental? In theory it’s going to replace one of the charter vessels that we have now – the Island Pine here which is over in the North Sea.
That vessel – we’re supposed to get it in May – to May to June of next year.
We’ll just play it by ear.
We have the option to keep the Island Pine near if the market’s good and if not we can give it back and use the deep canyon going forward on some of the wind forms dredging projects that we have.
Then I guess the one incremental part at this part is the new trencher right? Correct.
Okay.
Oh and any update on the stat-oil feed study for possible new Q4000 type vessel? No real update.
We’re still continuing to work hard on the re-submission.
The re-submission is due September 15th.
It was postponed to that date to allow us time to do the feed study for adding the cap – or not the cap the back to the submission.
And then Stat-oil is saying award sometime between November 15th and the end of the year.
Okay treat.
Great quarter.
I’ll turn it back.
Thanks.
And our next question comes from the line of Roger Read with Morgan Keegan.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Hey Roger.
Real quick the Caesar laid up for the rest of the year but what appears to be an overall – let’s say slight improvement in the market are you bidding this vessel for 2012? And if so where it would kind of be most likely to go? We’re – again I’ll turn it over to Cliff.
But we’re being very selective with the Seacor.
Right now we’re not planning to work it.
There’s nothing in our projections for it yet we are remaining open especially when it comes to working with other contractors on larger projects.
Yes that’s right.
We’re bidding it directly as you like but we’re also bidding it with other contractors on the effects projects – providing support on that project.
But most of the stuff that we’re bidding for ‘12 and ‘13 is – as I was mentioning – is selective projects that we really want to go after.
And they’re either here in the Gulf of Mexico or Brazil primarily.
And at this point what would you think – it could work half of 2012 most of 2012 very little of 2012? I don’t think that you’re going to see us put any contribution for the Seacor into our forecast or projections.
Okay that’s helpful.
Flipping over to the E&amp;P side permit to drill the Kathleen well – give us an idea of what your net ownership is in that.
Maybe the rough costs as we break down this increase in CapEx – $250 to $275 on the near term but $225 to $275 from the beginning of the year.
Is that driving a portion of that increase or was something like this already included in the $225? Kathleen is in the Bushwood field and we haven’t included anything in our forecast for an expiration well as far as contribution on production side.
To answer the first part of that question Deep Gulf is our partner there in the Bushwood field and we’ve sold down an interest to 50%.
We got a nice promote and we won’t go into those details so we will have 50% of the Kathleen well once it’s drilled.
But as I mentioned none of the results of that well are included in our projections.
But Roger CapEx has been in our number from the start for Kathleen.
The $225 that we originally had for CapEx included Kathleen.
So can you give us a little bit of an idea then what the $50 million increment is here? Is that the shelf work? It’s mainly on the services side adding some capacity Canyon netting some upgrades to well and invention.
That’s where most of the increase in CapEx is coming from.
It’s really not the MP side.
Yes and Roger that was a $25 million increase overall from $250 to $275.
Well from the original it was $225 that’s what I was trying to make sure of.
Okay.
Quarter one it’s $250.
Yes yes.
Sequentially just $25 million but $50 from the beginning of the year.
Okay...
Yes that’s all in the service side as we’re starting to position and start growing again.
That’s helpful there.
And then a final question if Wang goes forward is that included in the numbers or do you look at that at this point probably as more likely a 2012 expenditure event? Roger Wang is included in our CapEx forecast but not the production forecast.
Okay.
And then final question for me as you look at the well intervention business you’re at a high level of utilization.
I know the long story of whether you’re going to go Cat B or a different version of the Q4000 set next generation.
But given the high utilization in that area what are you seeing in the way of pricing power there? I know ultimately kind of drilling rates impact that.
We haven’t seen any problem on the drilling rate side.
So maybe give us an idea of where we are on ability to raise prices there or improve margins going forward.
Well that’s the discussion that we’ve been having across the contract and service not just in the well ops side of it.
But we have had a discussion and we are pushing to price things slightly to test the market a little bit on little opportunities.
But some release are NSA Type contracts.
We’ve already got pricing established with the (inaudible).
So ‘11 is set but ‘12 has potential? There might be a little bit of room the back end of ‘11 in Gulf of Mexico but most of its set and ‘12 has potential.
Correct.
Great.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of Joe Gibney with Capital One.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
This is a couple of vessels specific questions.
Of course if you can help me out a little bit the Express contracts and moving in the North Sea in the back half of 2012 curious if this is a term oriented contract.
I know Gulf of Mexico is showing some signs of life here as you indicated.
Does this mean you’d also consider moving the Intrepid out? Just try to add a little color on where you stand on PipeLego Mexico.
Well as we said the backlog for Gulf of Mexico pipe lay through this year is pretty full and is going up quite nicely into the first quarter next year.
And we do plan – it’s a moving target there with permitting stuff but we do plan to send the Express to the North Sea probably early third quarter late second quarter early third quarter of next year.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And just if we could circle around a little bit on non-oil field demand your robotics utilization obviously on the ROV support side very strong.
Tony you indicated some upward bias here still hard to get much better than 99% utilization there.
Has this turned aggressively here in the North Sea? You’ve referenced the wind farm development.
Obviously you’re making some investments on a little bit more sophisticated trenching systems.
Just curious on the sustainability of your ROV support robotics utilization because it was a pretty stout core here in 2Q? Well between the North Sea and West Africa we’re able to move those vessels back and forth from project to project.
So the oil and gas status in our construction business is doing pretty well utilization wise and rate wise.
And then we’ve got this added kicker of the energy business.
It’s kind of a mirror of what the telecommunications business was more transoceanic cables of maybe 10 years ago or so.
But if you keep up with it in Europe there’s a whole bunch of great (inaudible) all kinds of energy.
And I think this is just the beginning of what’s going to happen in Europe and hopefully come across to the East Coast of the U.S.
as well.
So we see a pretty big future in that market.
We’re proud to position ourselves to be a leader in that market for another (inaudible).
Okay fair enough.
A last one for me and I’ll turn it back.
Just in terms of P&amp;A expectations on the oil and gas side for the back half of the year maybe a little bit of help there kind of calibrating on what expectations are on your 50B production run rates.
Should we be hovering in this kind of low $50 million per quarter P&amp;A run rate? Well in terms of – on the gas side for a second.
I think what you saw in Q2 is probably what you’re going to see going forward absent any major revisions up or down okay.
But I would expect our – if your question was limited Joe to the oil and gas side...
It was.
That’s fine.
I think that kind of second quarter DD&amp;A rate should continue on.
Again the only wild card there are if we come to Q4 when we do our reserve report and we have a major upward or downward revision that obviously could impact the DD&amp;A rates.
Got you.
I appreciate it gentlemen.
I’ll turn it back.
(Operator Instructions) And our next question comes from the line of Martin Malloy with Johnson Rice.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Are there any dry-dock things we should be mindful of next couple of quarters? No not this year.
The first major one we have will be Q4000 in I think February or March of next year.
And that’s out of three or four we dry out.
Okay.
And in the earnings release you referred to a revision of your proof reserve estimate.
Could you talk a little bit more about that during the quarter? Yes.
This was an internal look.
We felt compelled in a certain field to take a look at our reserves based on production rates and it wasn’t a comprehensive look.
So therefore we feel it would be prudent not to talk about what the mid-year reserves came out because it was a limited look at the reserves.
But we felt compelled to increase the PDP reserves for Phoenix because the wells are out-performing the declined curves we assumed.
But we also took some minor negative revisions in a few other fields just based on production curves.
But again we don’t feel like the amount of work done was robust enough to publish numbers.
Okay.
And then I’m not sure if I heard correctly but did you suggest that as you convert the PUD participating reserves that production should stay relatively flat from ‘11 to ‘12? Yeah.
We haven’t done our 2012 budget but the big picture with the PUD conversions shows that we can maintain approximately a flat production from 2011 to 2012.
Okay.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Michael Moreno with Stephens Incorporated.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
My question – question on I guess Kathleen with the permit in hand how long before you can actually get up there and start drilling and what’s the time line in terms of bringing production on line there? Currently we’re negotiating for a rig to drill the well.
Having a permit allows you to do the rig negotiations.
So getting the rig we expect to get a rig this year.
The Bushwood field has the Danny well there.
We have the infrastructure in place.
It will be a Danny look-alike a Danny twin almost just a little deeper.
So the infrastructure’s there once it’s drilled and completed – but it is an exploration well – once it’s drilled completed it’s successful.
It’s a short time to hook it up – probably a couple of months and in deepwater a couple of months is pretty quick.
Okay.
So sort of late Q4 before we see some production from Kathleen probably? We’re not going to budget any production in Q4.
We’re going to start it at 2012.
Okay.
And maybe help us understand how the government’s working with your other pending permits.
What kind of time line are you looking at in terms of start to finish on the permitting front now that you’ve gotten Kathleen I guess? Well different permits seem to take a different amount of time.
Thinks we would expect to get quickly a pipeline permit for example we’ve waited a full quarter on a gas pipeline permit at Eugene Island 302.
So it’s hard to estimate.
It’s uncertain as to what they will do.
It almost depends on who in the government gets your permit to work on.
So when we get the Wang permit in I believe the Kathleen permit took about three months.
So I don’t know that that’s going to be the same.
It depends on who in the government gets our Wang permit.
I’d like to just jump in to add my two cents regulatory.
It really is to the point now where it’s not just permitting process but also regulatory.
We just saw that on the delay on Little Burn driven by another regulatory body and it wasn’t connected with permitting.
Cliff is looking and he’s mentioned earlier the difficulty of scheduling the assets on pipelay projects because of the erratic nature of the permitting and the scheduling there.
It’s really getting to the point where the government and the regulatory process and the permitting is dictating our management portfolio and management of our assets.
And I think it’s not too well appreciated as to how difficult that really is in this market which is why my earlier comment that I think a lot of our performance here is down to the scrambling of the Helix personnel to try and accommodate all this.
Okay.
Great.
Appreciate the color.
One kind of follow up on the robotics group.
I guess historically Tony you’ve talked about visibility there being more short term and having maybe six months of kind of visibility.
With the stuff going on in the North Sea do you have more visibility there than maybe you’ve had historically? Kind of maybe talk about the visibility of that segment.
Well the North Sea in general always has a positive plan further in advance than they are in the Gulf of Mexico.
It’s historically been that way and it continues to be that way now.
So yeah there is more visibility for long-term planning and projects in the Gulf of Mexico and we’re hoping that it’s even more so in this visible Energy/Wind Farm business.
I don’t know if that answers your question or not.
Do you have kind of a year? Can you look out a year and say that business is going to be pretty busy for the next year? It’s not really that we have contracts that we see out for a year other than on some of the variable stuff we have frame agreement with two different companies that go out five years with X amount of numbers of days per year that we’re guaranteed.
So on that variable side there is a little bit of that but on the – most of our revenue still comes from the long and robotics and that’s more just consistent with this historical trends than it is any real visibility.
I mean like six months there’s quite a bit of visibility in the Robotics business for us and I don’t see that improving dramatically when we can look out and see a year out in advance.
Okay.
Okay.
Thanks.
There are no further questions on the phone lines but as a reminder 1-4 for any questions.
And there seems to be no further question.
I will turn the call back to you sir.
Okay.
Well thanks everyone for joining us today.
We very much appreciate your interest and participation and look forward to having you participate on our Q3 call here in a few months.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your line.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the review of Third Quarter 2011 Results and 2011 Outlook with Investors Conference Call.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Afterwards we’ll conduct the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) As a remainder this conference is being recorded today Tuesday October 25 2011.
It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Stephen Powers Director of Finance and Investor Relations of Helix Energy Solutions Group.
Please go ahead.
Finance and Investor Relations</strong> Thanks (Sharon).
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
With me today is Owen Kratz our CEO; Tony Tripodo our Chief Financial Officer; Cliff Chamblee Executive Vice President Contracting Services; Johnny Edwards Executive Vice President of Oil and Gas; Alisa Johnson our General Counsel; Lloyd Hajdik our Senior VP of Finance.
Hopefully you’ve had an opportunity to review our press release and the related slide presentation material released last night.
If you do not have a copy of these materials both could be accessed through the Investor Relations page on our website at www.helixesg.com.
The press release can be accessed under the press release’s tab and the slide presentation can be accessed by clicking on today’s webcast icon.
Before we begin our prepared remarks Alisa Johnson will make a statement regarding forward-looking information.
Alisa? Thank you.
Joining this conference we anticipate making certain projections and forward-looking statements based on our current expectations.
All statements in this conference call or in the associated presentation other than statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements and are made under Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Our actual futures results may differ materially from our projections and forward-looking statement due to a number of variety of factors.
Including those set forth in slide two and in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31st 2010.
Also during this call certain non-GAAP financial disclosures may be made.
In accordance with SEC rules the final slides of our presentation material provide a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP measures to comparable GAAP financial measures.
The reconciliation along with this presentation the earnings press release our annual report and replay of this broadcast are available on our website.
Owen we are now make some.
All right will start the presentation with slide five you will see high level summary of third quarter results.
Quarter three continued our progression is successive quarterly revenue earnings an EBITDA increases in 2011 with earnings of $0.43 up from $0.39 from Q2 and EBITDA rising slightly to $178 million not from $176 million in the prior quarter.
Quarter three is revenues increased 10% over Q2 not were the about Q3 result of the underlying strong improvement in our contracting services business which more than offset the various production disruption experience some oil and gas business.
A matter will discuss bit more later as well as the high effective tax rate.
Our going slide six Q3 was characterize by high utilization of our contracting services as I said led by strong performance in both well intervention and robotic.
We’ve an achieved high utilization within real pipelay assets albeit at low margins.
Our visibility in the contracting services business is going stronger and that’s were able to increase our full year EBITDA outlook for 2011.
Our oil and gas production second quarter averaged $127 million cubic feet equivalent per day with oil representing 69% of that production.
Again much of our oil production is sold Louisiana light sweet market rates which is that a significant premium to the WTI prices you often see quoted.
Pipeline disruptions particularly in the pipeline servicing our phoenix field along with the production slowdown due to tropical storm lee as down our production rates in Q3.
Tony?  Yes thank you.
Over the slide seven in addition to the sequential uptake in earnings the companies balance sheet continues to strengthen.
In Q3 we took advantage of our high liquidity levels and went into the open market to repurchase $75 million of our high-yield notes.
Year-to-date we have paid down approximately $190 million of debt well at the same time maintaining robust liquidity levels which now stands at $933 million at September 30.
The higher effective tax rate mentioned by Owen earlier is 33% and is primarily due to higher proportion of US earnings.
I will now turn the call over to Cliff discussion of our contracting services results.
Contracting Services</strong> Okay thanks.
As I mentioned after innovation in contracting services business continue to improve Q400 achieved 9% utilization and Express and Intrepid posted approximately 95% utilization 95% utilization each innovation of ROVs and Trenchers increase from 54% the second quarter to 67% in the third quarter.
Is that activity levels translated into 30% increase an contracting services revenue with slight improvement gross profit margins to 27%.
From the slide seven this slide shows equity in earnings contribution of the independent Hub Marco Polo and Clough Helix JV.
Results are fairly consistent with the second quarter and I’ll leave the slide for reference.
On the slide seven well I mentioned business achieve near four utilization in third quarter Q4000 performed multiple projects were Shell and Anadarko in Gulf of Mexico.
Our side from the few days R&amp;M down time for the Seawell to North Sea versus utilized everyday in the third quarter.
Normand Clough was 100% utilizing construction projects offshore China.
Demand for our assets and services in the Wellhead remain strong in backlog in the Gulf of Mexico and North Sea its building well in 2012.
Moving to slide 12 Canyon utilization and financial performance during improved in the largest business in the third quarter we kept all of our chartered vessels follow US added two new all these fleet (indiscernible) new ROVDrill units an increase the ROV Trencher utilization up to 67%.
The offshore removal hedge based used to be area focus and we have market and we are making incremental investments secured by firm contracts to expand the capacity.
In the third quarter we utilize the trenching squares or the Deep Cygnus to perform rate cable installation and burial operations I think Greater Gabbard and Wind Farm the UK Sector of the North Sea.
One of our other charter vessels the Island Pioneer performs power cable trenching and burial operations in UK sector of the North Sea.
In Q4 the Island Pioneer is scheduled to join the Deep Cygnus on the Greater Gabbard wind farm to continue our cable installation and burial project through February of next year.
On the slide 13 which is pipe lay we mentioned improving activity levels for our pipe lay assets and our call with you last quarter business got off to a rough star during the first half of year but utilization of the Express and Intrepid beginning to improve toward the end of the second quarter.
This trend continues in the Q3 as the two assets each achieved approximately 95% utilization.
Backlog to this Express continues to build in Gulf of Mexico and the Intrepid set sail for California about a week ago which you remain through the end of the year and in the January.
The Caesar had been in shipyard all year are undergoing planned maintenance and upgrades which were completed at the quarter end after sea trails and Caesar sale in the middle of October and is now performing accommodations work in the Bay of Campeche.
On the next slide 14 this slide illustrates the design of our deepwater containment system the Helix Fast Response System available to members that are consorting with 24 independent operators in the Gulf of Mexico.
The system has been cited as still response containment plan in 38 approved deepwater permits to-date.
Moving on to the slide 15 the slide shows the utilization we achieved in our contracting services in access in the second quarter which I’ll leave for your reference and now on our oil and gas business I’ll turn over to John.
Oil and Gas</strong> Thanks ERT third quarter production what we’ve exceeded Q2.
As further footnote on page 17 our operating expenses were up by $9 million in Q3 2011 over Q2 due to the fact that we expense the substantial portion of our weather derivative policy during hurricane season.
The increase in Q3 2011 over Q3 2010 is the cost associated with the Phoenix field.
The Phoenix field has been in production now for one year with first oil produced on October 19 2010.
Also during Q3 we continue to receive a premium for our wholesales about WTI excluding hedges ERT received over $13 of barrel for WTI for all of our GOM crude.
Looking back at the third quarter ERT brought on Little Burn well in the Phoenix field and we continued with the successful look over program in the South Marsh 130 field.
These wells headed over 4000 barrels a day equivalent to ERT’s 3Q production capacity.
Looking forward we have some exciting opportunities the Green Canyon 490 well are wider which was drilled in 4Q of 2009 is currently being tag back to a compliant tower in Green Canyon 260.
First production is expected in Q1 2012.
In the Bushwood field we expected to add production from two wells in 2012.
We currently have a rig in the Bushwood field completing the Nancy well which was drilled in 4Q of 2008.
We have received the drilling permit for the Kathleen well which was renamed Danny II.
This well is an exploration well targeting oil productions just below the Danny oil well.
The timing of the Danny II well will be depended upon securing a rig.
We also have drilling opportunities in the Phoenix field.
We have submitted type of work towards receiving the drilling permit for our Wang exploration oil well and also a PUD oil which we can drill our Phonies field.
And the timing of these wells will also be dependent on receiving drilling permits and securing a rig.
Over to you Lloyd? Finance</strong> Thanks Johnny.
Slide 18 illustrates our commodity hedge position for the balance of 2011 as well as hedges put in place so far for 2012.
Quarter three we also layer in some additional crude oil hedges for 2013.
The $6.6 billion cubic feet equivalent hedge for the remainder of 2011 covers about 60% of our forecasted combined production.
The remaining quarter four hedges are weighted about two-thirds to oil production which is in line with our current production profile.
In the third quarter we layered in additional oil and gas hedge contracts for 2012 and some additional – some initial oil hedge contracts for 2013.
Our Q3 swap and costless collar hedge contract for crude were based on current brand crude pricing.
And as we’ve mentioned before we’re utilizing the benchmark to better correlate our financial hedges against the actual pricing we are receiving for our Gulf of Mexico crude sales.
We continue to opportunistically hedge our forecast of 2012 and now 2013 production depending on the current commodities markets.
Over to slide 20 slide 20 profiles our current debt and liquidity position at September 30.
As Tony mentioned earlier we paid down in total of about $190 million in gross debt since the beginning of the year.
In the third quarter along we repurchased $75 million of our 9.5% high yield bonds at a discount at January 2012 first call price 104.75.
We ended the third quarter with $375 million of cash on hand down from the $414 million at June 30.
The decrease is largely attributable to the high yield debt purchases in the third quarter.
That significance our growth and net debt balances have decreased $855 million and $1.0 billion respectively since year-end 2008.
Our liquidity position stands at $933 million as of September 30 and based on our outlook for the fourth quarter we expect further decreases in our net debt position from the September 30 levels.
Tony? Okay.
Moving over to slide 22 which is an update of our 2011 outlook.
Despite the production disruptions mentioned earlier our oil and gas production forecast remains intact at 50 billion cubic feet for 2011.
Again that’s up from the original forecast of $49 billion cubic feet equivalent for the full year 2011.
We forecast oil and gas prices net of hedges at $96 a barrel for oil and 582 nm for gas.
On the oil side we are definitely benefiting from the up or less Gulf crude pricing premium.
And in natural gas side we are benefiting both from our hedges and natural gas liquids byproduct production.
Due to the stronger near-term outlook and visibility for our contracting services business we now forecast EBITDA at $625 million in 2011 up considerably from the original outlook of $475 and up from the outlook we presented a quarter ago of $550.
You will notice again a plus sign on the slide next to EBITDA forecast which suggest we have upside potential to the $625 number.
CapEx spending is still forecasted at $275 million and that’s the same as last quarter.
At the level of EBITDA with forecasted level of CapEx for the year we should continue to generate free cash flow for the remainder of 2011 allowing us to further reduce our net debt position from September 30.
Slide 23 and 24 provide more color on our outlook.
On the Contracting Services side we have booked a nice level of backlog for our well intervention vessels.
The Q4000 is nearly fully booked for all of this year and into 2012 and both the Well Enhancer and the Seawell are carrying a solid book of business as well going into 2012 with the exception of regulatory dry dock requirements for all three of these vessels in 2012 we anticipate very high utilization level.
As previously mentioned backlog of both Express and Intrepid have picked up.
Intrepid set sail for California which has two projects on the contract which will keep her there through January.
Both of these vessels have regulatory dry dock schedule in 2012 as well.
The Express is currently operating in the Gulf of Mexico with fairly good backlog going into 2012 and the Caesar has gone to work as Cliff mentioned in the Bay of Campeche in an accommodations project.
Turning to our Robotics business three are in North Sea one is up the cost of India and one is in the Gulf of Mexico.
Our CapEx at $275 million breaks down to $110 per contracts and services and $165 for oil and gas.
Contracting Service numbers contains low spending above maintenance some upgrades to the Helix produced to enhance the spill containment profile and some incremental investment in our historically profitable robotics business and the cluster upgrades for the Caesar.
The major items in the oil and gas spending $165 remaining to be spend the drilling of the Katelyn well and the completion of Nancy well both in the Bushwood field.
As Johy mentioned we expect the Nancy well to be bought into production sometime in Q1 of next year.
Back to you Lloyd.
Finance</strong> Slide 26 and 27 are non-GAAP reconsolidation schedules that was presented here for your reference.
I will not go over these schedules in detail during the call.
And at this time I’d like to turn the call back over to Owen for his closing comments.
All right Lloyd.
Our company and people continue to work well an improved performance.
We’ve been successful investing in oil and gas assets loss the value and convert PUD reserves to PDP.
And will continue with this game plan and keep oil and gas reinvestment within its own cash flow our generation.
On the services side well intervention Canyon continued perform well and the construction group utilization is up by performance and margins have much more in the greatly improve.
The seas are upgrades largely behind us which makes vessel very capable global assets we’ve not soft put back into the pipe lay market deployed on accommodations contract for the near term.
Going forward our focus will beyond an improvement to performance in this business unit and unlocking the value of the assets.
In well intervention Canyon were asset constrained.
We’ve added some assets in Canyon which have an quite yet come to the market and we’re considering various operations to grow the well intervention business.
Will be working further improved to growth potential of our services by adding assets and both well intervention in Canyon well improving the value realize from our construction group.
We now reduced that levels to manageable levels liquidity is high in cash flow strong coupled with opportunities and well intervention in Canyon we planned to embark on a growth plan in this areas.
As we continue to unlock the value in our current oil and gas reserves we expect our financial condition to continue to strengthen.
With that I will turned back over to the operator for Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is from Jim Rollyson with Raymond James.
Please proceed.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Jim.
Owen I guess first your well intervention business seems to be kick and but all of the businesses is improving pretty rapidly use pipe lay starting to pickup and if got backlog going into ‘12.
Can you maybe spend just minute talking about the outlook in terms of bidding as to fill in ‘12 and you mentioned margins still have lot of room to go.
Just kind what’s developing on that side of the still kind started levels that we’ve been seeing or your starting to see things release and science Horizon that might start to pick up little bit?  And specifically on construction or where they are three groups.
Yeah.
All three groups.
Okay.
Let me like Cliff speak to that because day-to-day involve with market here.
Yeah well in general first things I’d say is (indiscernible) budgeting process for 2012 and so we don’t have all the quite figured not yet.
But I see it from a operating service groups well also have a good 2012 as we mentioned the backlogs pretty substantial therefore for next year and both US Gulf of Mexico and North Sea little bit of work down Africa.
And the margins are improving slightly in that area.
From the Canyon standpoint is probably pretty similar get their backlog usually as for our advanced but we booked up some of the work in winter time for fewer vessels that we normally have I don’t time during the winter months due to some of trenching in renewable market.
We booked those up for the winter and we expect the spring and summer to be pretty substantially booked as well.
And in the last just the pipe lay just the construction business I think is going be not too much different from this year.
I think we’ll have a reasonable amount backlog for the real vessels the Express and Intrepid.
But just don’t see the margins greatly improving but I think our performance will improve the margin slightly.
And do you think the Caesar will that some point find its way back into bidding work or you guys are talked about in the past possibly shown the vessel you can of where do you stand on that?  We are looking both options there is secret we’ve been looking trying to Caesar but were also chasing some work will start later part of next year for pipe lay work from Caesar as well.
All right.
And realize here in the budgeting process and you may want to defer this but ask it anyway.
Since you brought up in the press release on the five dry dock for next year you’ve got obviously some significant vessels going out for drydock.
Have you thought about kind of how this might impact you on a year-over-year basis because it seems like it’s a little up year-over-year in terms of the number of drydocks and significant assets but you also have some things coming into the market on the Canyon side just kind of trying to think about how we should model this from a year-over-year perspective?  Yeah I mean Jim I’ll take that question.
Number one we are going through a budgeting process so we haven’t ultimately determined our numbers for 2012.
I think it’s unusual that the five vessels coincidentally are having drydocks in 2012.
We had non in 2011.
Just the way this cycle worked the regulatory required a normally last 20 to 30 days beyond that it’s tough to give you guidance on the impact of that.
All right I appreciate it.
It’s helpful.
And then last question from me you guys brought back the 75 million of senior unsecured notes in the quarter.
Any plans to pursue that option again in the fourth quarter?  Yeah I would say this Jim our first priority in paying down debt if we can opportunistically do that and we feel good about the macro conditions a lot of F slip there Jim.
But we really would like to pay down the high yield debt if we can.
Obviously our liquidity position is good it gives us the flexibility to do so.
So a lot depends on market conditions and how we feel about the macro situation.
Great thanks guys.
That’s our favorite debt to pay down.
I understand.
Okay.
Our next question is from Joe Gibney with Capital One.
Please proceed.
Thanks good morning.
Just wanted to drill down a little bit more on the drydocks if we would in terms of timing specifically on the queue I think the expectation have been from some downturn there in the first quarter.
Is that still accurate for drydock as well and as well for Well Enhancer well it be first half of the year just trying to get a sense of timing on a progressive basis.
No I think this is the one I think you will see most of these drydocks front loaded in the first half of year.
We would prefer to get them out of the way during the slower part of the season and rougher weather.
I think the Well Enhancer is scheduled for the last half of the year.
That one.
Yeah.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then Johnny if you could I know you guys haven't formalized this you’ve usually talked about production potentially being flat year-over-year ’12 versus ’11.
You’ve got you’re waiting on a wagon carefully your paper works have been submitted on Wang Nancy is supposed to come on first quarter ’12.
Has anything changed relative to your perception of timing impairments on Kathleen and Wang as you’re here in the third quarter versus 2Q.
I mean do you think it’s still an achievable target to be flat year-over-year at this point in production.
Well in 2011 we have done really well.
We exceeded our budgeted number our budget was 40 to 46 range what we originally thought and we first hit the 49 and we did really well.
I think to keep it flat year-over-year that assumption would require us to be successful on both Wang and Kathleen and to get them drilled in a timely basis.
And I don’t really know the rig market and permitting market is going to allow us to do that.
I really don’t want to speculate but if we have the ability to keep it flat if we could get those wells drilled in a timely basis and if they are successful because both Wang and Kathleen are exploration wells.
Understood and drilled on a timely basis you mean first half of the year correct?  Early 2012.
Okay.
Thank you gentlemen I appreciate it.
I’ll turn it back.
Our next question is from Michael Marino with Stephens Incorporated.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
Owen you mentioned possible I guess growth opportunities in the wells ops business and intervention markets outside the much talked about stat oil bid.
What other opportunities are you seeing is that a market you may approach from a new build standpoint with that oil?  In a word yes there are several sectors of that market though you have the light intervention market which we have never we dominate the light intervention market in the North Sea but we have no light intervention asset in the Gulf of Mexico.
So that’s an option whether that’s a new or an existing vessel there is options there to consider.
And then as far as additional vessels we every time we build one we start designing the next one.
So there has been one on the table for quite a while.
And when we pull the trigger I think that is another option that we’ll consider.
Like I said in my remarks we’re looking at a lot of options those would be organic and there is also M&amp;A options.
So we’re looking at quite in the way right now.
And at this point is it more is it something looks more like the Q or something looks more like the well enhancer or both? I prefer not to speculate to obviously for competitive reasons I’d like to keep it and our rest as long as possible.
But also until the decisions made I think it would be wrong to preannounce anything.
Sure understandable.
And just one housekeeping Tony the SG&amp;A line I guess that came down a quarter is it something that will continue or to kind of bounce back Q4 and need a help there.
I think it’s going to be relatively flat maybe to be concerned of slightly up in the fourth quarter.
Okay that.
We are not really doing anything to change activity levels in SG&amp;A to cause it move higher or lower that much.
Okay great.
Thanks.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question is from Roger Read with Morgan Keegan.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
Good morning Roger.
I guess lot of stuff has been asked but maybe looking at the amount of drydock time you’re going to have you’ve got the Caesar at least out and floating doing a little work.
What’s the potential for putting it into more the conventional market is it that you’ve mentioned reel lay versus I guess J–lay system I mean is that the difference here it’s a reel lay is more in demand and just a better more cost effective type vessel as we look at 2012? Yeah the Caesar is an Essalay vessel.
Actually (indiscernible).
Yeah the other two vessels are reel lay.
Reel lay is there is far more reel lay vessels on the market than there are S–lay.
And reel lay actually fits more with all type of construction which is the surf market in the field construction work.
S–lay is usually reserved for export lines or lines of with large enough diameter where you need a weight code and there for can’t be reel.
That sort of standalone market and outside of where we are headed which is why we’re passing right now the sea whether options are on own divesting – divestment of Caesar.
But there are opportunities like Cliff mentioned then we are planning we’re in the planning stages to man up and start to rebid the vessel.
But we’re going to be taking it little bit slow so that we can make sure that when we do contract the vessel our performance will be up.
Okay.
Should we think about it as staying basically in an accommodation mode for the near term or is the short term work and then back to the dock? As we think it will be in accommodation mode for the first half (indiscernible) quarter may of first half of the year.
Okay.
And then I don’t know if you want to go into it given maybe your hesitation on the previous questions.
But the Cat–B Owen can you give us maybe an  update where we stand and that was originally kind of February of this year and then push back to year end where do we stand on ones Statoil move forward with that.
To my knowledge all of the submissions from the three bidders are all submitted to Statoil they’re in the process right now of evaluating the submissions.
It will then turn into a sort of back in forth clarification dialogue probably with all three and Statoil announcing the big plan to go to contract in February.
So it’s wait and see here now the work –all the works done.
So February ’12 is the date to expect something.
Yes that’s what we’re told right now.
Okay.
And then final question along the well intervention you’ve mentioned some work in West Africa next year.
Can you maybe give us a little more on is that a specific to one customer that you’ve been working for in the North Sea or something totally and new as you think about whether you had a light or heavy well intervention vessels that what we should be thinking about more of a Southern Hemisphere opportunity.
Well we have an opportunity down in Africa and from the well offset for the North Sea operations they have never been there in Africa but from the Canyon side we’ve been working down there so we leveraged a little bit also that experience and it is a wintertime campaign which is typically a slow time in North Sea so we take advantage of slow time and there is no deepwater activity picking up off the coast West Africa so taking advantage of that and treat it just like any other project.
I think it’s about 60 day campaign and other.
But specifically Roger is the Well Enhancer it’s going down there and its with major ENP customer.
Okay.
Let’s if you may thank you.
And our next question is from Mario Barraza with Tuohy Brothers.
Please proceed.
Hi thanks.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Hi I know pretty much guys are run down the majority my questions for can you just talk a little more about the renewable energy opportunity going forward? We’ll this is pretty broad question but..
No just more in offshore in the UK and North Sea you guys are picking up some activity there? Right we have maybe 1.5 vessels can working in that market full time right now.
And the partner market is after installation of the actual turbines is doing the interconnect cables between the turbines and varying those for protection and then also the trunk lines going from the wind farm to beach for protection trunk lines.
And that market is picking up another vessel somebody at Grand Canyon was come out next year having another asset the T-1200 Trencher will go on there.
As I mentioned is talk about contract that really assets for base in the back to the contract.
So that’s drilling market for us in the Canyon spinoff of the pipeline market that we were already in.
There are some talking the first one going of the East Coast to the US.
That does few years away ever goes quite few potential against the right now.
We believe so market activity is in Europe and I think..
Okay all right.
Thank you guys.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question is from Martin Malloy with Johnson Rice.
Please proceed.
Congratulations on the quarter.
Thank you.
Could you is there any help you could give us in terms of thinking about the impact of your investments from the ROV and Canyon in 2011 first half of ‘12 in terms of either revenues or return looking forward on the investment how much you’ve invested? Marty I’ll just say we expect our Robotics business to grow next year.
Again were not quite through the budgeting process but we’ve made investments based on committed backlog and that meets our return hotels at least 15% after tax return on capital.
So I just say that when support vessel that Cliff mentioned the Grand Canyon we’ve acquired ROVs we are building a trencher for the renewable market.
And then all that back by from backlog.
Yeah.
Just to add to that budget-to-budget 12 in the Canyon side the budget will go up even though we finalize it it will go up over the 11 budget and one of the just Grand Canyon was that going be replacement vessel for chartered vessels and we have.
And becomes backlog work right now or Grand Canyon come up and keep the vessels that it was supposed to replace.
So we have added capacity in our fleet for next year at least for the busy part of the year through the summer and fall Okay.
And then the ROV drill upgrades is that enabling ROVs to working drill support what is that.
That is a question I guess it is a little confusing here no it’s well drill maybe not the greatest name but business in the geo technical business and we have first acquiring job in the actually in the renewable rig one business as well doing core samples so they can determine what type foundation we need to put the (indiscernible).
Okay thank you.
Our next question is from (indiscernible) with Siemens &amp; Company.
Please proceed.
Thanks good morning.
Good morning.
The first question you guys have historically given pretty good colors surrounding the permit process in the Gulf of Mexico and where extend.
Could you talk about if it’s you’re still seeing a constrainer is it largely better understood today been where you were in the summer?  Tony do you want that.
Well we have received the Kathleen which we renamed any two permits.
The process is still rigorous and the rigorousness of it is because it’s 1000 of pages required to fulfil the requirements that therefore it’s very time consuming.
And if you make any mistakes but or mistakes we don’t fill it out properly it’s back to square one and restart.
So the process is a lot more time consuming and stretched out than it used to be.
Maybe not all that bad I’m not saying it’s bad is just more time consuming and therefore it will take us longer and everyone longer and that’s probably the color I could give.
On more of the macro view I think permitting is up substantially from where it was it’s not back to premier condo levels.
But I think the bigger bottle neck and correct me if I’m wrong Johnny but the bigger bottle neck is not so much getting permit through although it is lot tedious than it used to be.
The biggest bottle neck right now is the lack of rigs in the Gulf of Mexico.
We saw a lot of rigs exit in getting actually getting your hands on the rig it’s very difficult and of course to permit you have to specify which rig you’re using and if you can’t mail the rig down then it’s - that you says another hurdle delay on the permit.
There is not a lot of free rigs.
And then Tony one for you on the tax rate.
If you could just sort of provide us some color I think why Q3 just guide to 27% net payment higher so which we will be thinking about Q4 and then also into ‘12? Well year to date we at 30% we book 33% in the third quarter to catch up to a 30% rate and we think 30% is going to be rate the fourth quarter as well.
And that’s largely being driven by much higher earnings in the U.S.
where we have a higher effective tax rate here higher statutory tax rate.
Because of the strong earnings being produced while the E&amp;P business.
And I still contain the go forward basis where we see our business falling out globally we still expect our rate to be between 25% and 30% ongoing basis.
All right.
Thanks I’ll turn it back.
Mr.
Powers there are no further questions.
We do have another follow-up question from Michael Marino with Stephens Incorporated.
Please proceed.
Thanks I want to follow–up on the guidance for 2011.
And I guess the implied EBITDA number that you guys are getting to what’s kind of the delta there between I guess Q4 and Q3 is it I mean you give the production guidance.
So is there some seasonality to the vessel utilization or? Yeah there is always some seasonality Michael in the fourth quarter in our business we take a dip.
We don’t expect the dip to be as pronounced in Q4 as it has been prior years namely because we’re sending a well an answer down to West Africa Canyon is sizing up a bit better in the fourth quarter than it normally does at the same time we expect maybe Canyon utilization in the fourth quarter to be slightly lower.
So we normally take a dip and I think if you back into the fourth quarter number where sort of guide into a bit of dip based on where we are year–to–date.
But we feel pretty good overall about where we are right now in terms of our backlog and utilization for the remainder.
Year-to-date we are at $500 million of EBITDA.
So that would suggest slight decrease in EBITDA but we noticed we did have the plus sign behind that 625 number two.
Okay sounds good.
Thanks.
I’m showing no further questions at this time.
Mr.
Powers? Finance and Investor Relations</strong>  Okay thanks (Sharon).
Thanks everyone for joining us today.
We very much appreciate your interest and participation.
We look forward to having you participate on the fourth quarter call in a few months.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you all for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your line.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the review of Fourth Quarter 2011 Results and 2012 Outlook with Investors Conference Call.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Afterwards we’ll conduct the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
As a remainder this conference is being recorded Thursday February 23 2012.
It is now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Tony Tripodo please go ahead.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
Joining me today is Owen Kratz our CEO; Cliff Chamblee Executive Vice President Contracting Services; Johnny Edwards Executive Vice President of Oil and Gas; Alisa Johnson our General Counsel; Lloyd Hajdik our Senior VP of Finance.
And at this time I’d also like to introduce Terrance Jamerson.
He’s coming over from Canyon our Robotics business unit to assume the Investor Relations responsibility from Stephen Powers.
Stephen is actually swapping positions with Terrence and has transferred to Canyon.
Terrence has been with the Helix organization for four-plus years.
And at the end of this call I’ll have Terrence supply you his contact information and particulars.
Hopefully you’ve had an opportunity to review our press release and the related slide presentation released last night.
If you do not have a copy of these materials both can be accessed through the Investor Relations page on our website at www.helixesg.com.
The press release can be accessed under the press release’s tab and the slide presentation can be accessed by clicking on today’s webcast icon.
Before we begin our prepared remarks Alisa Johnson will make a statement regarding forward-looking information.
Alisa?  During this conference call we anticipate making certain projections and forward-looking statements based on our current expectations.
All statements in this conference call or in the associated presentation other than statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements and are made under Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Our actual futures results may differ materially from our projections and forward-looking statement due to a number and variety of factors including those set forth in slide two and in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31st 2010 and in subsequent Form 10-Qs.
Also during this call certain non-GAAP financial disclosures may be made.
In accordance with SEC rules the final slides of our presentation materials provide a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP measures to comparable GAAP financial measures.
The reconciliation along with this presentation the earnings press release our annual report and replay of this broadcast are available on our website.
Owen Kratz will now make some opening remarks.
Good morning everybody we’ll start with slide five which is the  high level summary of fourth quarter results.
Quarter four’s revenues increased from $372 million in Q3 to $396 million.
The increase is attributable to our Oil and Gas segment a factor of both higher production and higher oil prices.
As we previously signaled our Contracting Services revenue declined in Q4 due in part to the transfer of the well enhancer to West Africa.
However we expect contracting service revenue to return to Q3 levels in the first quarter of 2012.
In addition to the good operating results we continue to generate a significant amount of cash flow with $166 million of EBITDA in Q4.
Moving to Slides 6 and 7 quarter four’s EPS is $0.16.
However backing out the impairment charges and other items noted in our press release our Q4 EPS would have been $0.66.
Much of the impairment’s related to declining economics and natural gas fields.
Utilization remained high in our well intervention business at 98%.
However accounting convention required us to defer the mobilization revenues for the well enhancer until Q1 of this year.
We did achieve 100% utilization for our two reel pipelay asset; albeit that no profit contribution.
The outlook for the Contracting Services business is definitely looking up.
Given that both our production and reserves are now more heavily weighted to oil we’re transitioning our reporting format to speak in terms of barrels of oil equivalence versus cubic feet of gas equivalent.
Our Oil and Gas production in the fourth quarter averaged 24 000 barrels of oil equivalent up from 21 000 barrels of oil equivalent in Q3.
Quarter three’s production was impacted by tropical storm activity and production from our Phoenix field continues to outperform our expectations.
Again much of our oil production is sold at Louisiana light sweet prices which is at a significant premium to the West Texas intermediate prices.
We sold our oil production at an average price of nearly $111 a barrel in Q4.
The entire – for the entire year our oil and gas production amounted to 8.7 million barrels equivalent or in bcfe equivalent 52.2 bcfe.
Tony?  Yes continuing on Slide 7 from a balance sheet and cash flow perspective quarter four was very good for Helix.
Our cash balances increased by $171 million from $375 million at the end of Q3 to $546 million at year-end.
We also paid down an additional $18 million of principal on our term loan.
Our total liquidity now stands at a very healthy $1.1 billion and our net debt has been reduced to $609 million at year-end.
After a committed focus to balance sheet improvement we have now reduced our net debt-to-cap ratio from an unhealthy 60% at year-end ’08 to below 30% at year-end ’11.
I’ll now turn the call over to Cliff for an in-depth discussion of our contracting services results.
Thanks and good morning all.
As you can see Contracting Services had a good fourth quarter with total revenues of $225 million up from a year ago but slightly down from Q3.
Our gross profit margins at 22% in quarter four was down quarter-to-quarter but significantly higher than a year ago when it was at only 4%.
Utilization’s harvest business unit with both Well Ops and Canyon vessels of 98% and 93% respectively.
The pipeline vessels utilization was at 87% with the Express and the Intrepid working in the pipeline mode and the Caesar on accommodations mode down in Mexico.
Moving over to Slide 10 this slide shows the equity and earnings contribution of the independence Marco Polo and the now SapuraCrest JV.
The results are fairly consistent with Q3 so I’ll leave the slide for your reference.
On to Slide 11 Well Intervention business has continued to be very robust to the point we’re looking at alternatives to expand that capacity.
To that point we announced last week that we plan to commence construction of a new build Semisubmersible Well Intervention vessel this year styled after the Q4000.
The Q had nearly 100% utilization between working for Shell and Anadarko and is booked through the year-end of 2012 and beyond.
Our two North Sea vessels were also very busy with 96% utilization and also carry a great backlog going forward.
The Well Enhancer sailed to West Africa in December and is performing very well setting new water depth records for that vessel and roughly 500 meters.
On the Robotics side Canyon experienced high utilization for the construction support vessels as well.
In addition to that the individual ROVs and trenching assets realized higher utilization also.
We completed the first road drill projects with our new assets and we are optimistic about this service line and hope to grow this business very rapidly.
The renewable side of the business also continues to be a highlight for us in the fourth quarter.
And along with our new vessel at Grand Canyon which will be delivered this summer we believe this business will change and grow for us.
On over to Slide 13.
In the Subsea Construction the Pipeline Group which historically has been the Gulf of Mexico focused has two of the three assets outside of our traditional U.S.
Gulf of Mexico arena Intrepid’s been in California and the Caesar in Mexico while the Express continues to experience high utilization here in the Gulf.
The outlook for this business is actually improving nicely.
On to Slide 14 this slide’s just a bit of a confirmation on the utilization side which I’ve been speaking about in all three of the groups.
So with that I’ll turn it over to Johnny for the Oil and Gas side of the business.
Good morning.
Please turn over to Slide 15.
I guess both Slides 15 and 16 the financial highlights for fourth quarter.
Production and revenue for Q4 2011 was higher than Q3 basically due to better run time than oil price improvement.
The Phoenix field with the HP1 continued to produced very well in Q4.
Our production mix was two thirds oil.
As for the footnote on Page 15 we recorded impairments in Q4 of 108 million.
Approximately 79 million was related to natural gas properties where economics could not support the carrying values of those properties with the lower gas prices.
The remaining 28 million was related to ARO impairments the largest being our only U.K.
property which was negatively impacted by a regulatory changes in the well abandonment process.
Slide 16 I’ll make a note the absolute dollars of operating cost were slightly higher in Q4 mainly due to two facility upgrades on the shale where we had some piping corrosion and a more active shale well workable program to improve our shale production.
Our operating cost per Boe actually decreased.
Slide 17 and 18 provide much detail on our year-end reserve report.
Slide 17 provides the breakout of reserves in oil gas and oil equivalence for the reconciliation of reserves from year-end 2010 to year-end 2011.
The total proved reserves at year-end 2011 are about 39 billion barrels equivalent.
This is the first year that we’ve provided SEC probable reserves.
The probable reserves are almost 20 million barrels equivalent.
Most of the downward revision improved natural gas reserves mainly at our Bushwood field moved to probable.
We added both proved and probable oil reserves at mainly at a Phoenix field due to our better than expected production performance.
The reserves are shown in oil equivalence because we’re now over 58% oil for our proved reserves.
Slide 18 provides a breakout between proved developed and undeveloped reserves by Shale and deep and by oil and by gas.
The combination of higher oil prices and oil reserve additions actually increased our PV-10 at year-end 2011 for the proved reserved to almost 1.5 billion which is higher than our year-end 2010.
Looking forward we have some very exciting opportunities.
In Bushwood field we expect to add production from two wells in 2012.
The Nancy well was drilled in fourth quarter 2008 has now been completed and is waiting to flow.
First production for Nancy is now estimated in Q3 of 2012.
Also we’ve contracted a rig now to drill the Danny II oil well.
This well is an exploration well targeting oil production just below the Danny oil well.
The Danny II is expected to spud by May 1 of 2012 with first production in Q3 of 2012.
We have multiple drilling opportunities in The Phoenix field.
We have filed the APD permit for the Wang exploration oil well.
We also have a (Pud) well were we’d like to drill at Phoenix it’s called our Head and Neck Pud well in the main pay zone.
We expect to receive the Wang APD at any time now and we’re trying to secure a drilling rig as we speak.
We are targeting drilling the Wang well in Q3 of 2012.
The timing of course of these wells would be depending upon receiving the required drilling permits and securing a rig.
Over to you Lloyd.
Thanks Johnny.
Slide 19 details our commodity hedge positions covering our 2012 production and a portion of our 2013 production.
The 4.6 million barrels of oil equivalent hedged for 2012 covers about 60% of our forecasted combined production of 7.5 million barrels equivalent.
And regarding our oil hedges 75% of our current hedges in place by volume for 2012 and 2013 are based on the Brent benchmark to better correlate our financial hedges against the actual pricing we’re receiving for our Gulf of Mexico accrued sales.
<br>The actual spread between the WGI benchmark and what we actually receive for our crude oil sales in the fourth quarter there was approximately $20 per barrel.
Generally speaking we have a goal of hedging up to 75% of our forecasted proved developed production for the current year and we begin to layer in hedges on our forecasted production from our approved undeveloped reserves only when the reserves are very close to the first production.
Turning over to Slide 21 this slide profiles our current debt levels and liquidity position at December 31.
And as Tony mentioned earlier we paid down an additional $18 million of our term loan in the fourth quarter and for the full-year 2011 we have repaid a little over $210 million in debt bringing our gross and net debt balances down to 1.2 billion and 609 million respectively at the end of the year.
We ended December with $546 million of cash on hand and again that’s up $171 million from the $375 million at September 30.
As mentioned earlier our liquidity position stands at a very healthy $1.1 billion at the end of the year.
And as we mentioned in our press release earlier this week we closed an amendment to our credit facility to allow for a new $100 million term loan committed by Seneca the Banks.
And the terms of this loan are the same as the resolver and is expected sometime in March.
Together with proceeds from the term loan and an incremental $100 million of existing liquidity we intend to call $200 million of our high-yield bonds with a redemption date in late March.
Net debt balances do not change but the cash interest savings from replacing the more expensive 9.5% debt is very significant from now until January 2016 maturity of the high-yield.
Tony?  Yes turning to Slide 23 where we present our 2012 outlook.
We’re following up a very strong 2011 with another strong outlook for 2012.
Forecast EBITDAX at approximately the 600 million and I’ll get in to the basic assumptions that underlay that number.
While this is slightly down from 2011 levels we don’t anticipate being able to match 2011 production levels due to the slower pace in securing permits for our two key exploration projects scheduled in 2012.
Also even though we forecast stronger market conditions for our Contracting Services business in 2012 four dry docks presents a bit a bit of a headwind.
As you can see based on our commodity price forecast coupled with the hedges we have in place we estimate realized commodity prices at $104.80 for oil $4.56 for natural gas.
That being said we are actually realizing higher LLO prices for oil than our forecast.
CapEx spending is pegged at $445 million including an estimated $130 million in 2012 for the construction of the new build well intervention semi that we announced last week.
On Slide 24 the key assumptions and factors that go in our outlook are as follows.
Number one we have a very strong backlog for our well intervention vessels with the Q4000 fully booked in 2012 and building backlog into 2013.
The Well Enhancer and Sea Well are expected to stay very busy in 2012 as well.
<br>We expect to grow in revenue base for Robotics particularly for renewable energy trenching and coring services.
We are adding capacity in ROVs and we expect our robotic business to have a very strong year.
We have four dry docks scheduled for 2012 with an estimated P&amp;L impact of 25 million.
The dry dock schedule is presently scheduled as follows.
The Intrepid in April upon return from California the Q4000 in March the Sea Well in April and the Well Enhancer in July.
The above schedule is subject to change but this is our best estimate for now.
On to Slide 25 for our Oil and Gas business aside from the commodity price assumptions previously outlined the key variables baked in to our forecast are as follows.
No significant tropical storm disruptions in 2012 much like 2011.
The Danny II well and The Phoenix field and oil target gets drilled in the first half of 2012 is successful and commences production mid-year.
The permit and the rig for this well is secured.
In The Phoenix field either the Wang prospect or the Head and Neck pod both oil targets get drilled and commence production sometime in Q4.
Permit is pending and rig negotiations are in process.
As with 2011 we anticipate 90% of our oil and gas revenues to be from liquids thus we are highly levered to the price of oil.
On to Slide 26 we will spend more in CapEx in 2012 than 2011 partly due to the estimated $130 million for the well intervention semi and in part as we pivot to a growth mode with the goal of capturing a multitude of opportunities in our Robotics businesses.
Thus $250 million is projected with the Contracting Service business including the $130 for the new build.
On the oil and gas side we project to spend $195 million with the majority slated for drilling and if successful completion of the Danny II and either the Head and Neck or Wang wells.
I’ll skip Slides 28 and 29 leave them for your reference.
And at this time I’ll turn the call back over to Owen.
Okay thanks Tony.
As you can see from this quarters reported results we’re continuing to progress the transition of the company in line with our previously stated strategy.
We continue to improve the balance sheet and have now reached the targeted 30% debt ratio that we’re comfortable with.
We’re now running a more efficient oil and gas business by high-grading our properties and de-risking the business model while at the same time generating significant cash flow.
We’ll continue to try in monetize our noncore assets but it’s also time for us to begin new capacities for growth.
Our emphasis will be to add [inaudible] and capability primarily in well intervention and robotics.
We’re now asset constrained in those areas so you’ll see us add capacity there.
We recently announced plans for construction of the New Build Semisubmersible Well Intervention Vessel based on the success and lessons learned from the Q4000.
For now we’ll refer to it as the Q plus.
In the near-term we’re adding a new vessel to the robotic support fleet to be in service during the second half of this year and we’re looking at another vessel beyond that.
We’re adding a new trencher as well to be in service in the back half of this year.
We’re in process of also adding a minimum of 6 new work class ROVs over the next 12 months.
We’re building new well interventions and seeking the best deployment platforms.
There’s a lot in the works.
<br>We’re basically opportunity rich but we will address growth as a measured pace with an ability to retain quality of service and only at a pace that allows us to maintain the strong balance sheet and liquidity position.
I realize this is a bit vague but as I said there’s a lot in the works.
For the past few years we focused on the balance sheet and have now put ourselves in a position to launch growth.
So they’ll be a period here during 2012 where the process will be the initiation of steps to grow but actual ramp – actual results will ramp up over time.
So stay tuned and with that I’ll turn it back over for Q&amp;A.
Yes before we do that let me have Terrance introduce himself and then we can go to Q&amp;A.
Okay thanks Tony.
Good morning.
As Tony mentioned my name is Terrance Jamerson.
For the past four years I’ve worked in our robotics division serving as a General Manager of Accounting and Finance of that business unit.
I look forward to the new opportunity and working with each of you guys and the new investor relations capacity.
My new phone number which is actually the same as Stephen’s old number 281-848-6644.
This number as well as my e-mail address is also posted on the Helix website under investor relations at the contact information tab.
We’re ready for Q&amp;A now operator.
Certainly thank you.
(Operator instructions).
And our first question comes from the line of Marshall Adkins with Raymond James please go ahead.
Morning guys I want to get a little more specifics I guess on the Q-Plus that we’re calling it you know the new build.
Walk me through what is going to be different about this you know how are you going to fund it timing and what kind of rate of return do you think you’re going to get on this thing?  A lot of questions there I know.
Well the Q-Plus is basically taking the methodologies that are incorporated in the Q4000 and just putting it on a slightly larger platform.
You know some of the things that we have learned from the Q4000 was a primer for a little larger air gap a little greater deck load.
So it’s basically the Q4000-plus with respect and I’m not sure if I remember all of your question but…  Well overall cost and you know how do you think the returns are going to be on this one et cetera et cetera?  I think – well the overall cost I might as well mention it’s going to be in the neighborhood of half a billion.
On financing this it is our intentions right now to finance this on our own balance sheet but the timing of the payments we believe we’re going to be able to fund this out of our existing cash flow without an increase in debt.
With respect to the returns if you go back and historically you remember the initial returns on the Q4 000 were relatively low we were very – we were the pioneers in this business market and it took a few years to ramp up.
Without getting into too much detail I’ll just save it I think the visibility of the backlog and the acceptance of our methodologies and the quality of our service means that this one will hit the ground running in about three years with much better returns then what the Q4 000 started with.
And then we have in general we have mid-team return on capital targets for the corporation and I think this will follow in that rage.
Fantastic last question form me you know Owen you’ve been around awhile not that you’re old but I would like to get your perspective or at least your gut feel on the market going forward of for both pipe laying well intervention now that we’re starting to ramp up around the world you got all kinds of new build rigs out there – you know it just seems like everything is heading your way on a somewhat lag basis but I would rather hear it from you in terms of what’s your perspective out over the next two years for that industry in general?  Well I will speak more to the part of the industry that I am really excited about and that’s the well intervention side – I mean for years if not decades now our vision has been that oil and gas profits is going to go [inaudible] for deeper waters the commercial way of developing that is subsea to make that buyable but oil and gas doesn’t know how much water is over it so you have to come up with paradigm shifts in the way that you do things.
The area – I think there has been a lot of focus on doing bad on the subsea construction side I think there has been less focus on the what you do on the well side.
Most of what is done in the deep waters is currently done by drill rigs and it has been our focus to come up with drill rig alternatives.
Admitting the work that drill rigs do providing vessels that are more efficient at doing them and there for approaching the deep water drilling a little differently than the shallow water drilling – now that has a lot of different segments depending on how you work divide that scope.
It’s been our preference to focus on a vessel design that is – you know there is two schools of thought in this area one is to build smaller vessels that are more task specific and there for lower cost.
In these early days of the developing market our preference has been to focus on larger vessels with greater capability looking forward to the future regulatory demands and I think the Q4 000 I think it’s surprising how right we got it.
And this vessel is just a continuation of that process but this industry the subsea well intervention market is still in its infancy which is what really excites me and I see business you know restarting the growth of the company but certainly not the end of where we can take this.
Very helpful and thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Marino with Stephens please go ahead.
Morning Owen.
Good morning.
I was curious if you could expand on that a little bit as it relates to the Gulf of Mexico and maybe more in your term I guess in the prepared remarks there were some notable to me at least was optimism in the robotics business in the Gulf of Mexico and I was curious if that impacts – if your thoughts on the Express as optimistic as well?  On the Express meaning the pipeline vessel?  Right in the Gulf.
I think our path forward if you look at our company I think it is best to think of us as having a preference for focusing on the highly specialized niches.
I think the Q4000 fits in the realm I think what we do in robotics we’re not a commodity type robotic provider we really focus on – we’re the number on the number one provider of the specialty trenching market recently penetrating into the robotic driller market.
So it’s specialty aspects of the market place that I think we bring the most to bare and not the greatest competitive advantage.
Given the limited balance sheet of future growth I think will be slanted in that direction with respect to the Express that – it’s a real pipe laid vessel it’s in the subsea construction market while it’s a very capable vessel if you look at the limitations of our balance sheet and the competitive position we have in the market place I don’t think that’s an area where you will see us as focused on future growth.
I do having said that though the market is finally recovering after [inaudible] the backlog is growing hopefully we will see the margins improve going forward as the market does strengthen but I am a little worried about the supply outside in that market place.
So all things considered I think you will see us take a deemphasized look at the subsea construction market going forward and a greater focus on robotics and well intervention.
Okay and maybe more specific to maybe your near term outlook or your 2012 outlook on the Gulf of Mexico you noted some I guess some anticipated recovery or you know continued recovery in the Gulf maybe a little bit more color on kind of the ramp there in 2012 in the Gulf.
2011 we were very pessimistic about the outlook on subsea construction in the Gulf of Mexico we positioned vessels outside of the Gulf through the year I think the market has greatly improved and our backlog is actually filled in quite nicely but I think I’ll turn this over to Cliff because he works closer with the day-to-day let him give you his perspective on the Gulf of Mexico subsea market.
Okay thank you yes for 2012 I don’t think we’re saying the Gulf we see a huge ramp up and someone mentioned earlier you know there’s a lot of drilling rigs being built and a lot of permits being release or more than there were but we’re a lifetime usually 12 18 maybe 24 months behind that.
The good news for us is that we’ve got a pretty decent back bubble you asked us specifically about the Express and it’s been really the only vessel in the Gulf here lately we had to trap it out in California and [inaudible] down in Mexico as we had mentioned but for the backlog for the Express we’ve got more [inaudible] for it now it’s been busy and continues to be busy and we’re going to move it out of the Gulf for some projects that we’ve got over in the Mediterranean in Europe but the good news is when that’s over there and it’s booked up until September or October then it comes back here for work we also have got work booked for the Intrepid here in the Gulf of Mexico as well.
So I wouldn’t – it’s not great times in the Gulf of Mexico but it’s certainly improving and we’re keeping these assets moving around so that… Our next question comes from the line of Martin Malloy with Johnson Rice and Company.
Please go ahead.
Congratulations on the quarter.
Thank you.
Is there an update on the stat oil contract? I’ll take that.
The stat oil contract was delayed in their announcement severely and was supposed to have been announced February 15.
February 15 came and went and there’s been no word so the simple answer is we simply don’t know.
And we’re – they’re – we simply don’t know.
Having said that we’ve just decided that enough time has gone by and enough effort and we’ve decided to move on rather than focus on the CATB and that’s what prompted our announcement last week of building the new vessel.
Okay.
You mentioned being asset constrained in the oil intervention Oil V markets can you talk about what you’re able to do in terms of pricing there?  The pricing is increase – we were able to increase the oil price.
Cliff you want to speak to the specific pricing that you’re seeing? Okay.
Well on the oil intervention side you know we’re pretty optimistic about that or very optimistic about that and with the backlog that we mentioned with the Q in the Gulf and the – through this year and most of ’13 as well already filled up and the rates are coming up and hence the new build and the same with the two well intervention vessels that are based out of the North Sea one being in Africa at the moment [inaudible].
We’re seeing rates to continue to improve in that theater as well.
And also on the robotics side not so much on the Oil V’s themselves but the vessel side that we have we see the rates continue to increase there as well.
But probably more importantly is the utilization side of it from the robotics side is increasing and we’re able to move those assets bouncing back and forth between here and the UK sector as well.
Thank you.
(Operator instructions).
Our next question comes from the line of Joe Gibney with Capital One.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Just a question on the dry dock schedule the $25 million impact on EBITDA show the color there on when these dry docks occurs.
Should we be thinking about timeframe for each of these or vessels out of the fleet in the same kind of three to four weeks kind of bandwidth or is it a little bit longer?  I’m just trying to drill down a little bit on those expectations.
I think Joe generally we estimate 30 days per vessel.
You know it really depends on what you find once you bring it into dry dock.
Sometimes it can take a few days less sometimes it can take a few days more.
For instance back in October we mentioned we had five dry docks and this time we’re saying four and the reason why one has come off is because Express actually went through it’s dry dock earlier this year and that was only a week process and she’s off and back to work.
We don’t expect that to be as good an outlook for the rest of the vessels but it’s just a pure estimate and the 25 million is based on about an average of 30 days per vessel.
Okay that’s helpful.
And just to clarify your commentary that – correct me if I’m wrong I think you referenced quarter one marine revenue being equivalent to what you saw in the third quarter.
Is that the case even with the dry dock of the Q4000 30 days or is some of that just a function of this deferred mode revenue on the well enhancers accurate?  Yes.
Even though we’ll lose about a month’s worth of revenues on our highest revenue generating asset the Q4000 we do expect Q1 revenues to bounce back to Q3 levels.
And a part as a function of booking the mode revenues for the well enhancer here in the first two months that we were unable to book in December.
Okay helpful.
And then just one last one for me.
You referenced some of the capacity additions on the robotics side.
I was just wondering if you could repeat that.
It looks like you did pick up another vessel on your charter [inaudible].
I thought the – I believe it was the Norman Clipper was expected to roll off it looks like you added a vessel addition and you referenced potentially another vessel coming on.
What would be the timing of that additional charter vessel is that second half of ’12?  Yes what we do have coming on is a vessel called the Grand Canyon that’s going to be delivered to use in probably June of this year and we have a new trencher called the T1200 and a couple of [inaudible] that will go in there for mid this year.
But we’re also negotiating for another one another vessel to follow that in 2013.
Okay and that was – and it was six an addition of potentially six [inaudible] RVs in the next 12 months is that correct?  That’s correct.
All right.
Thank you gentlemen.
I’ll turn it back.
(Operator instructions).
And we do have another question from the line of Anthony Google from Upstream.
Please go ahead.
Yes hi.
Regarding the Q-Plus when and where will construction of this semi-sub occur?  We’ve not announced the location of the construction because we’re still in contract negotiations which should be over here shortly and of course sensitive to the yard’s announcement criteria we’re going to hold off on announcing where it is.
But when it’s due would be early – right now we’re forecasting early 2015 short of putting it into service.
Okay and my other question this engineering must draw upon some of your effort for the Stat Oil CATB bid but to be clear this is not a Norwegian Sea class type semi-sub that you’ll be building correct?  No.
What we’ve done is every since we’ve build the Q4000 we immediate started the design process trying to look at what the next vessel would be.
If you go back to the year 2000 with the Q4000 it was always our intentions to have a fleet of these.
So immediately following the Q we started incorporating design ideas based on how the Q was functioning.
When the Stat Oil CATB came up it actually required a redesign to meet the Stat Oil spec but it was a separate effort from what we had started previously.
I think back then we were calling it the H4500 but – then during the Stat Oil CATB process we continued – and then – but parallel design process that led towards this vessel.
So this is not the CATB vessel that we’re building this is our own design based on the Q4000.
Okay appreciate it.
Thank you.
And there appears to be no further questions at this time.
Thanks for joining us today.
We are very much – we very much appreciate your interest and participation and look forward to having you participate on our first quarter 2012 call in the next couple of months.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Have a good day everyone.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the review of the First Quarter 2012 Results Conference Call.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Afterwards we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
As a remainder this conference is being recorded Monday April 23 2012.
I’ll now like to turn the conference over to Terrance Jamerson please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
Joining me today is Owen Kratz our CEO Tony Tripodo our CFO Cliff Chamblee Executive Vice President of Contracting Services Johnny Edwards Executive Vice President of Oil and Gas Alisa Johnson our General Counsel and Lloyd Hajdik our Senior VP of Finance.
Hopefully you had an opportunity to review our press release and related slide presentation released yesterday afternoon.
If you do not have a copy of these materials both can be accessed through the Investor Relations page on our website at www.helixesg.com.
The press release can be accessed under the press release’s tab and the slide presentation can be accessed by clicking on today’s webcast icon.
Before we begin our prepared remarks Alisa Johnson will make a statement regarding forward-looking information.
Alisa? During this conference call we anticipate making certain projections and forward-looking statements based on our current expectations.
All statements in this conference call or in the associated presentation other than statements of historical facts are forward-looking statements and are made under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Our actual future results may differ materially from our projections and forward-looking statements due to a number and variety of factors including those set forth in slide two and in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31st 2011.
Also during this call certain non-GAAP financial disclosures may be made.
In accordance with SEC rules the final slides of our presentation materials provide a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP measures to comparable GAAP financial measures.
The reconciliation along with this presentation the earnings press release our annual report and a replay of this broadcast are available on our website.
Owen.
Good morning everyone.
We left you on a pretty positive note at the end of the last quarter.
We’ll skip page 3 and 4 here so moving on to Slide 5 which is the high level summary of first quarter results.
Quarter one’s revenue has increased from $396 million in Q4 to $408 million this quarter.
With all of the increasing attributable to our Contracting Service segment an increase that more than offset the decrease in Oil and Gas revenues resulting from lower oil and gas production.
Consistent with the increased revenues we also reported increased earnings in operating cash flow.
The EBITDA generated of 209 million represents an all time post Caldag divestiture quarterly record for Helix.
Moving on to Slides 6 and 7 quarter one’s reported EPS is $0.62.
However this is after absorbing 17 million of pretax charges or $0.10 after tax associated with the early repayment of a portion of our Senior Unsecured Notes and a portion of our Convertible Notes.
The uptick in Contracting Services revenues and operating results in Q1 was actually led by our subsea construction business which saw a 94% vessel utilization in Q1.
However our well intervention business also had an increased operating result from Q4.
Despite the fact that the Q4 our Q4000 and our dry dock in early March and the Seawell went into dry dock in late March.
Canyon our Robotics business had a very active quarter utilizing 5 different stock market vessels at various times during the quarter in addition to its four regular vessels under long term charter.
Our Oil and Gas production in the first quarter totaled 2 million barrels of oil equivalent down from 2.2 million barrels of oil equivalent in Q4.
Quarter one’s production decline was impacted by the sale of our main pass field as well as the shutting of our Noonan gas well along with normal decline rates.
We continue to benefit from our oil production being sold at Louisiana light sweet prices which is at a significant premium to West Texas intermediate prices realizing 109 a barrel net of our oil hedge contracts.
In addition natural gas liquids production along with our natural gas hedge contracts allowed us to realize $5.82 from our natural gas production in Q1.
Tony? Yes thanks Owen.
Continuing on slide 7 from a balance sheet perspective we continue to strengthen our financial condition.
Our net debt position which continues to decrease went from 609 million at year end ’11 to 560 million at the end of the first quarter.
Our cash balances increased to 620 million at the end of Q1 from 546 million at year end.
We did a bit of a re-haul of our capital debt structure during the quarter.
First we issued 200 million of new 3.25% Convertible Notes due in 2032 and used the proceeds to buy back 142 million of the 300 million of pre-existing Convertible Notes which we fully expect to be put for repayment in December of this year.
The remaining 158 million of the old converts are expected to be put to us and retired in December.
Essentially we preserved a low-cost form of capital and convertible debt by issuing new 200 million notes to replace the 300 million that would fully expect to be repaid by year end and reducing the net amount in this type of debt capital by a 100 million.
Further more we issued new 100 million of the syndicated term loan A and along our revolver borrowings called and retired 200 million of our 9.5% Senior Unsecured Notes.
The net effect of this reshuffling results in a much lower cost debt capital structure.
With this I’ll turn the call over to Cliff for an in-depth discussion of our Contracting Services results.
Okay.
Thanks Tony.
Good morning all.
As you can see Contracting Services had another strong quarter with a total revenue of 265 million up over a 100 million about a year ago and 40 million higher than Q4 last year.
Our gross profit margins of 27% were also significantly higher than a year ago as well as improving upon last quarter’s margins.
Utilization was higher this business unit with Well Ops and Canyon vessels at 84% and 93% respectively.
The pipeline vessels utilization was 94% with Express and Intrepid working in a pipeline mode and the Caesar in accommodations mode.
So moving on to Slide 10 this slide shows the equity and earnings contribution of the independent hub Marco Polo and the SapuraCrest JV.
The results are consistent except for the $4 million write down to close off the JV in South East Asia.
Over to Slide 11 the Q4000 is down at 67% utilization for the quarter and had a near 100% utilization in January and February as they work for Shell and Helix Oil and Gas projects prior to entering the dry dock in early March.
Our two North Sea vessels were also busy with 93% utilization despite the Seawell transiting for dry dock in late March.
The Well Enhancer successfully completed its West African campaign.
This campaign represented the deepest operations conducted from the Well Enhancer since joining our fleet in early 2009.
Both North Sea vessels carry strong backlogs the rest of the year except for a planned dry dock for the Well Enhancer in the third quarter.
The Q4000s’ backlog is beginning to extend into 2014 also note our second Intervention Riser System is now in the Gulf of Mexico and working for Exxon.
So moving on to Slide 12 on the Robotics side Canyon experienced high utilization for the construction support vessels as well with a record 9 vessels on hire during the quarter.
The renewable side of the business is again a highlight for us this quarter as we continued to generate significant trenching revenues in the renewable energies market utilizing the Island Pioneer and the Deep Cygnus vessels as well as our ROVDrill coring assets.
We are still on target for our Q2 delivery of our new vessel the Grand Canyon and believe this business will generate growth for us.
On to Slide 13 in Subsea Construction the Express continues to achieve high utilization here in the Gulf.
She departed for a project in the Mediterranean earlier this month and is now expected back in the Gulf until the third quarter.
The Intrepid finished its campaign off the coast of California before transiting back to Gulf of Mexico at the end of March.
Caesar remains on an accommodations project down in Mexico where the contract is now being extended through August.
On to Slide 14 I leave that for your review and with that I’ll turn it over to Johnny on the Oil and Gas side.
Good morning.
Please turn over to Slide 15.
Slides 15 and 16 provide the financial highlights for Oil and Gas for the first quarter.
Production and revenue for Q1 2012 was lower than Q4 mainly due to the sale of our main pass area properties and the shutdown of the Bushwood Noonan gas well due to high water production.
Our production mix in Q1 was 71% oil.
On Slide 16 our operating costs were lower in Q1 with the major differences being reduced workover expenses and less facility repair work.
Looking forward we have some exciting opportunities.
On the Shelf we expect to start two oil producing properties in the second quarter.
We will begin production from our (inaudible) field at about 1000 barrels of oil equivalent per day net and at (inaudible) 86 we will begin producing about 500 barrels of oil equivalent per day net from one well with two additional wells to drill this year.
In deep water we expect to add production from two wells in 2012 in the Bushwood field.
First the Danny II well is expected to spud by the end of this month.
This is an exploration well targeting oil just below our Danny oil well.
If successful we will add an estimated 3600 barrels of oil equivalent per day net.
Production from Danny II is scheduled for third quarter.
Also in the Bushwood field the Nancy well which was drilled in fourth quarter 2008 has been completed and is waiting to flow.
First production from Nancy is estimated in Q3 also in 2012.
This gas well will add an estimated in equivalent basis 2000 barrels oil equivalent per day net.
The Phoenix field and the HP1 continue to produce very well in Q1.
We have received the APD and we have contracted a rig to drill the Wang well.
The rig for the Wang well will not be available until mid to late Q3 therefore we have scheduled first production for Q1 2013.
If successful the Wang well can add an estimated 3400 barrels oil equivalent per day net.
We also have two proved undeveloped oil wells to drill at Phoenix but we do not anticipate drilling those until after 2012.
Over to you Lloyd.
Thanks Johnny.
Slide 17 summarizes our current commodity hedge positions with the 3.2 million barrels of oil equivalent covering about 62% of our forecasted combined oil and natural gas production for 2012.
On estimated production from PDP were hedged on a combined basis totaling 74% for the year.
We also have a portion of our 2013 production hedge notably with natural gas slightly above a floor price of $4 per Mcfe in oil with a floor price of nearly $100 per barrel.
And regarding our oil hedges over 80% of our current hedge is in place by volume for 2012 and 2013 are based on the Brent benchmark.
And we have mentioned on past calls that we are using the Brent benchmark to better correlate our financial hedges against the actual pricing we are receiving for our Gulf of Mexico crude sales.
The actual spread in quarter one between the WTI benchmark and what we actually received for our crude oil sales in the first quarter was approximately $15 per barrel.
Turning to slide 19 and 20.
Slide 19 profiles our current debt levels and liquidity position at March 31.
Gross debt increased slightly during the quarter as a result of the completion of our new $200 million 3.25% Convertible Senior Note offering.
As Tony mentioned earlier we used $142 million of the proceeds to repurchase and retire a portion of our existing 3.25% Convertible Senior Notes.
The existing notes affordable to Helix beginning in December of 2012.
We ended the first quarter with $620 million of cash on hand and that’s up $74 million from the $546 million at December 31 and our liquidity position remained at $1.1 billion as of the end of the first quarter.
Over to slide 20.
This slide provides our current update on overall debt maturity profile as of March 31st.
As we mentioned on the quarter four call earlier by Tony we introduced our new $100 million term loan with a syndicate of banks in February.
This term loan funded in late March and we took the proceeds plus $100 million borrowed under the revolver we paid $200 million of our 9.5% Senior Unsecured Notes on March 30th.
The Senior Unsecured Notes have been reduced to $275 million or half of the original $550 million issuance in December 2007.
With the reduction in the high yield bonds we have realized a sizeable cash interest savings over the next few years with our overall cost that’s just slightly over 5% at March 31.
Tony? Thanks Lloyd.
Well we are off to a much better start in 2012 than we originally expected.
As such we now expect our EBITDAX forecast for all of 2012 to exceed the approximate $600 million we originally forecasted for 2012.
The key variables impact in this forecast in addition to the commodity price assumptions shown on the chart on slide 22 are little or no tropical disruptions impacting our oil and gas business as well as the successful drilling and completion as Danny 2 oil target.
As Johnny mentioned we expect to spud as well later this month and estimate first production around October 1st.
What has changed is that although we have secured our permit in rig for the Wang oil target which we expect to spud in Q3 we have pushed in a production contribution out of our forecast until 2013.
But despite moving Wang production out of the 2012 forecast we still estimate our total production as 7.5 million barrels of oil equivalent the same as our original 2012 forecast.
With both the Seawell and Q4000 and dry dock for the most of April we expect our contract and service business to pull back somewhat in Q2 however activity levels remain very strong particularly in the well intervention business.
Our CapEx estimate for 2012 is $450 million essentially the same as our original forecast $130 million of the $450 million in CapEx is slated for the new Q plus well intervention semi of which we paid $60 million first installment in Q1.
We have contracted two additional ROV support vessels under long term arrangements based on a very favorable outlook for the ROV business both for the oil field and for the renewable energy markets both of these vessels are copycats of the Grand Canyon vessel which is expected to enter our fleet mid-year.
The other two vessels are expected to be delivered in 2013 and 2014 respectively.
I believe they will replace existing long term charter vessels in our robotics fleet or depending on market conditions expand our ROV support capacity in the future.
CapEx spending again is $450 million essentially the same as our original forecast and again $130 million of this represents spending for the new Q plus vessel.
I’ll skip slides 27 28 leave them for your reference and at this time I’ll turn the call back over to Owen for closing remarks.
For the bottom line is that the company has been in good shape operating well and position for growth while continuing to strengthen financially.
Debt is down to a comfortable level for a service company our size.
All assets are at high utilization levels.
The markets we serve are strengthening and margins continue to improve.
We are bringing on new assets into growing markets that are measured proved and paced.
And then in the last 12 months we have committed to adding six new world class ROVs a new trench is going into service in the renewables market in July or August onboard a new build charter vessel as mentioned in the previous presentations.
The construction of the new Q plus is now being kicked off at the Jurong yard in Singapore.
By the end of Q2 we should have four of the five dry docks scheduled in 2012 behind us.
These steps towards that in growth are being achieved within our strong cash position and without adding debt.
The debt reshuffling we have been able to accomplish the past six months has served to reduce our debt service and there is more that can be done.
Presently we have a strong visibility on the utilization and rates.
Production is consistently in line with our estimates with two highly prospective wells to be drilled.
We now have permits and rig contracts in hand for both of these wells.
For now things are going well.
We are on track to exceed our original 2012 outlook to the investment markets.
Our strategy over the past three years was to delever the balance sheet and to grow the well ops and robotics service lines.
We have identified the growth opportunities and have the financial strength to execute and have taken the initial steps.
We are now on the verge of adding meaningful growth capacity to Helix and remain open to monetization options on assets that would allow us to accelerate growth but we are in the fortunate position of not being under any pressure to monetize for less than the reasonable value and still comfortably achieve our targeted service growth.
I am proud of what we have accomplished in the position we are in and with that I’ll turn it back over to the operator for Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Jim Rollyson with Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Jim.
Excellent quarter.
Tony you mentioned marine probably pulling back going into the second quarter compared to first quarter given the dry docks schedule and all.
I was wondering if you or Owen can maybe just kind of characterize what you are seeing or thinking in when it comes to marine margins? You had really strong sequential uptick in margins and that’s even with the Q4000 being out for the better part of the month in the quarter.
As you kind of look out number one at your schedule and how you think about it for this year but also equally important just from a pricing standpoint looking out you mentioned Q4000 having backlog going into 14 how is that margin curve kind of progressing? I’ll take this and I’ll let Tony follow up if you want.
Jim I think all of the markets that we are looking at are gradually strengthening over time.
I think there is a long way for them to go so I do think that margins will improve on the back of the market.
But even without the market I think what you are seeing in the company is a real focus on our cost and our operating efficiency and I think that’s greatly improved and there is always more work to be done there.
So I think we have the internal opportunity to at least hold margins where they are and possibly improve them going forward.
Jim I think obviously utilization is important to margins but I do think there is opportunity for margin expansion in our well intervention business and long term margin expansion in the Subsea construction business.
As you know there are much better margins in Q1 and that’s with one vessel update even though it’s worth.
Caesar really not making any money so there is opportunity for a more meaningful work for the Caesar in the future we hope.
So all things being equal we see the environment being more positive for margin improvement as we go forward.
That’s great color.
On 2Q specifically you have got the Q out for April you got to see well that will be out for a good chunk of the quarter.
How much impact do we have from the couple of vessels that are in relocation one coming back from California and the one going to Mediterranean is that 30-day type impacts or just kind of trying to get a sense of how utilization might look from 1Q to Q2? Well Jim the mobilization of the Express and the de-mob of the Intrepid were still revenue earning periods for us so that’s really not an impact.
The big impact for us again is the Q4000 and the Seawell being out of service for most of April.
It rather well there in dry dock but the other two vessels are in revenue producing mode even as they are mobil.
Okay helpful and last one you guys have the two new charters similar to the Grand Canyon which I think said may be replacement or maybe additive just thoughts on capabilities versus your existing fleet and maybe kind of how charter rates are looking for the two new vessels versus what you have been paying or even what you are paying on the Grand Canyon? This is Cliff I will take that one.
Yeah we get that the Grand Canyon is coming to us in July of this year and then we have contracted two almost identical vessels to it after that and we kind of got involved that with the first charter to the Deep Cygnus a very similar vessel or so.
We believe we got the spec that is right for the market size shape crainage etcetera for those vessels.
As you mentioned the idea is we kind of have a fleet contracted on a rotating basis so depending on market fluctuations we can either add two by keeping the next two vessels coming out or we can replace sort of vessels that we have and take those off charters let those charters expire.
Alright thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Joe Gibney with Capital One please go ahead.
Thanks good morning just a follow up on the chartering question.
You guys flexed up on the smart vessel side with a five short-term charters.
I was just curious how that is looking into the sequential quarter has it drawn off a little more outside of the four you got on long term I was just kind of curious as it was up a lot sequentially? Yeah we have long term chartered vessels they usually run for 3 years to 5 years and options on those as well and those are our primary vessels.
And then from an opportunistic stand point as we see short jobs pop up that could be anywhere from 2 weeks to 6 months then we pick up other vessels for those as required and that is what you are seeing reflected in this last report.
That is a little hard to predict what we will do but I expect that we will throughout the year we will continue -- all those vessels are pretty much gone at the moment but we will pick those or similar type of vessels up through the rest of the year in Southeast Asia and with the rig drill asset well.
Okay that is helpful.
And just outside of near term utilization impacts from the dry dock schedule just curious on the Subsea construction size as a strong quarter you guys have a lot of visibility now more so than you have had in the past.
Can the Express and the Intrepid outside of dry dock schedules maintain 90% utilization? It is a high hurdle rate but given your visibility is that reasonable to get pass the dry dock side of things? Yeah I will that one again.
Yeah with Express I don’t think we have too much concern on the high utilization for it as we mentioned it is on the way to the mid and then go on to the North Sea and then back here we will probably pick some more work in the North Sea and we got work when it is back here.
The Intrepid it will be a bit of a struggle to keep it working rest of this year because it is truly Gulf of Mexico based but we are starting to see that turn a bit as well.
So yeah we don’t have a real strong backlog for the Intrepid but that is also a vessel that we pick up we are pretty short to lead time but we are going to execute the work so it is typically not contracted out a year in advance it is usually two months in advance or so before we contract.
Alright fair enough.
Last one for me just curious Tony if you could detail what the deferred mob revenue contribution was for the (inaudible) during the quarter? Joe of the top of my head I don’t have that figure so let me get back to you on that.
Okay thanks guys I will turn it back.
And our next question comes from the line of Martin Malloy with Johnson Rice please go ahead.
Congratulations on the quarter.
Thanks Marty.
Could you talk about opportunities with Statoil on the Cat-A contract? I will take that.
We have spent a lot of time on Cat-B and I think you saw last week well I think prior to that you would have heard us say that we were moving on without considering the Cat-B and with the build of the Q Plus.
The other contract that we are involved with Statoil tendering is for a Cat-A which is a small amount of haul similar to the Enhancer type vessel or Seawell.
I think the tendering process is through all submissions are in and we are now awaiting the award and when we actually hear about that award I am not too sure given the history of extensions that Statoil puts on things.
So it is should be near but I can’t tell you exactly when we might hear.
Okay.
And then with respect to the Caesar vessel outside of working on accommodations mode are there bidding opportunities that you are seeing out there to prove up the pipeline capabilities of the vessel? Yeah right now the extended accommodation is in Mexico through August into first part of September.
There is an option we are discussing on how to extend that further into next year but we are also now planning to get back into the pipeline mode with that vessel probably half way through 2013 or so in the mid 2013.
And yeah there are projects that we are chasing here in the Gulf and internationally.
Okay thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Marino with Stephens please go ahead.
Good morning.
A question on well intervention rates I guess drill rig rates have moved up -- could you maybe compare what is your bidding the well intervention assets for today versus maybe what you are working them forward of today? Well a lot of the well intervention work that we have today and the rest of this year is long term contracts that we had in place so we are not really able to raise those rates.
But yeah we do see I think Tony mentioned earlier room for improvement in well intervention business so that’s definitely part of our strategy to get those rates up and part of the timing to build the Q Plus and we are talking to clients now about the rates for the Q Plus.
So those margin rates and margins on Well Enhancer Seawell and the Q4000 here are steadily increasing as we can but as I mentioned some of these are one and two-year contracts so we can’t increase rates until those expire but we do see room for improvement.
But generally speaking the rates in our backlog Michael are higher than what you saw a year ago generally speaking.
So that is locked up in our backlog right now and certainly drill rig rates if they hold up pretend well for our rate situation beyond which backlog as well and certainly when you see a generation six drilling rigs out there at 550 a day and higher that is going to give us plenty of opportunity to put the Q Plus to work at very nice rates.
Right.
Just in order of the magnitude I mean are you talking 10% kind of increases from which you are currently working or is it greater than that? Well I think we are talking about opportunity for rate increases.
I certainly think there is an opportunity over the next two years to see a 10% rate increase but that again is going to be subject to market conditions at the time.
Sure good.
And just maybe if I could looking out a little bit further on the E&amp;P business in the 2013 I guess this year you will spend close to $200 million there is that kind of a good level for or strategically Owen how you see kind of spending in that business where you are working things on the shelf and maybe some opportunistic things in the deep water but kind of trying to keep it in that range or maybe your thoughts on kind of E&amp;P longer term and how much spending you direct there? Let me let Johnny express what his wish list is and then I will look at the balance sheet and later on tell you what the actual is going to be.
Fair enough.
Yes.
In 2013 we could have similar number of projects and similar spending that we do in 2012.
We still have a backlog of projects to develop that are in proved undeveloped category and we still have some deep water wells we would like to drill in the Phoenix field because the Phoenix field has just continually outperformed our expectations.
So we will be bring in another list in 2013 that will look like 2012.
I might just add a follow on I think Johnny and the guys at the ERT [ph] are allocating capital very wisely in them.
And I think as a company there is a refocus on the return on capital for every dollar deployed from CapEx that boards well but we will endeavor a very prudent a row with a lot of discipline to stay within or close to our cash flow and avoid any recurrence of debt increases.
Great that is very helpful.
Thank you.
And there appears to be no further questions at this time.
Okay.
Thanks for joining us today.
We very much appreciate your interest and participation and look forward to having you participate on our second quarter 2012 call in July thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the review of Second Quarter 2012 Results Conference Call.
During the presentation all participants will be in listen-only mode.
Afterwards we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator instructions).
Today’s call is being recorded Tuesday July 24.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Terrence Jamerson.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
Joining me we have Owen Kratz our CEO; Tony Tripodo our CFO; Clifford Chamblee Executive Vice President of Contracting Services; Johnny Edwards Executive VP of Oil and Gas; Alisa Johnson our General Counsel; and Lloyd Hajdik our Senior Vice President of Finance.
Hopefully you have had an opportunity to review our press release and the related slide presentation released last night.
If you do not have a copy of these materials both can be accessed through the Investor Relations page on our website at www.helixesg.com.
The press release can be accessed under the press releases’ tab and the slide presentation can be accessed by clicking on today's webcast icon.
Before we begin our prepared remarks Alisa Johnson will make a statement regarding forward-looking information.
Alisa? Thank you.
During this conference call we anticipate making certain projections and forward-looking statements based on our current expectations.
All statements in this conference call or in the associated presentation other than statements of historical facts are forward-looking statements and are made under the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Our actual future results may differ materially from our projections and forward-looking statements due to a number and variety of factors including those set forth in our Slide 2 and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2011.
Also during this call certain non-GAAP financial disclosures maybe made.
In accordance with SEC rules the final slides of our presentation materials provide a reconciliation of certain GAAP measures to comparable GAAP financial measures.
The reconciliation along with this presentation the earnings press release our annual report and a replay of this broadcast are available on our website.
I will now turn this over for some opening remarks to Tony Tripodo? Yes.
Owen did you want to take slide 5 or you want me to start on slide 5? I am here now Tony I will go ahead.
We are moving on to slide 5 which is the high-level summary of second quarter results.
Quarter two’s revenues decreased from $408 million in Q1 to $347 million this quarter with most of the decrease attributable to the Q4000 and the Seawell being out of service for a good part of the quarter as they underwent the regulatory dry docks as well as lower oil and gas revenues resulting from lower production levels.
Both dry docks ran longer than we had planned and consistent with the decrease revenues we also reported lower earnings and operating cash flow.
Nevertheless given the fact that our two historically best contributing assets the Q4000 and the Seawell experienced a lot of non-revenue producing base we still managed to generate $152 million of EBITDA.
On the slide 6 and 7 Quarter two’s reported EPS is $0.42 which is inclusive of absorbing $15 million of impairment charges or $0.09 after tax associated with the decision to cold stack our oldest pipe lay vessel the Intrepid.
The Intrepid was due to for its regulatory dry dock in April and based on the lack of contract visibility in the amount of expenditures that we projected would be required by the regulatory dry dock we determined that it was better economic decision to cold stuck the vessel.
The Intrepid has not really contributed anything to the bottom line for us lately.
Canyon our robotics business unit as well as our subsea construction continue to put up good numbers in the second quarter.
The Express our other real pipe lay vessel made a nice contribution to our results in Q2 from a Subsea construction project offshore Israel.
Our oil and gas production in the second quarter totaled 1.7 million barrels of oil equivalent down from 2 million barrels of oil equivalent in Q1.
Quarter two’s production declined was impacted by a prolonged shutdown of our South Marsh Island 130 deal for repairs as well as natural declines.
We continue to benefit from our oil production being sold at Louisiana light sweet prices which is at a significant premium to the West Texas intermediate prices realizing $107 plus a barrel net of our oil hedge contracts.
In addition natural gas liquid production along with our natural gas hedge contracts allowed us to realize $5.76 for our natural gas production in Q1.
Additionally we are very pleased to report last week that success from drilling the Danny II well.
Johnny will speak to that later.
Tony? Yes.
Thanks Owen.
From a balance sheet perspective we continue to strengthen our financial condition.
Our net debt position decreased from $560 million at the end of quarter one to $530 million at the end of Q2.
Our cash balances increased to $650 million at the end of Q2 from $546 million at year end.
So we are in pretty good shape right now and with that I will turn the call over to Cliff for an in depth discussion of our Contracting Services’ results.
Alright.
Thanks.
Good morning all.
As you can see contracting services was slightly down compared to the first quarter with the total revenues of $230 million.
However still $38 million higher than the second quarter of 2011.
Our gross profit margins were at 20% lower than both last year and last quarter primarily due to three of our vessels being at the dock for a substantial portion of the quarter.
As a result we have lower utilization for our Subsea construction and Well Intervention vessels at 73% and 67% respectively.
We are moving on to slide 7.
This slide shows the equity earnings contribution of the Independence Hub Marco Polo and the SapuraCrest JV.
A couple of key highlights here.
Our earnings at Independence Hub are lower than Q2 due to the expiration of the supplemental monthly demand fee that ended at the end of the first quarter.
Also the $4 million under SapuraCrest JV for the second quarter as recovery.
Freely estimated loss when we completed our exit from this joint venture in April.
Moving on to slide 11.
As Owen mentioned earlier the Q4000 was in dry dock longer than we expected which put it at 45% utilization for the quarter.
Over the North Sea the Well Enhancer was 100% utilized for the quarter while the Seawell was in dry dock in April and a portion of May.
Outside of our last dry dock the Well Enhancer coming up in August our well of engine assets remain fully booked to the rest of 2012 and we continue to improve visibility end of 2013 and 2014 with the Q4000.
Moving on to slide number 14 on the robotics side.
Canyon continues to experience high utilization for the construction support vessels as well as the trenchers over the North Sea.
For the second quarter we added three more ROV systems to our fleet which were mainly put to work on long term contract.
Our latest trencher the T1200 was mobilized on to a spot vessel and put into service in June.
We anticipate taking delivery of Grand Canyon vessel in the third quarter as well as continuing to expand our ROV fleet with three more assets.
Moving on to slide 13 in subsea we have a strong utilization of both the Express which finished a campaign offshore Israel.
And Caesar which continues on accommodations work down in Mexico.
Due to lack of work moving forward in 2012 and the associated cost for the dry dock we did decide to cold stuck the Intrepid.
We did manage to extend the Caesar contract through July of 2013 and continue to firm up more work for the Express in the fourth quarter when we returned back to Gulf of Mexico.
On slide 14.
I will leave the slide detailing the best utilization for your reference.
With that I’ll turn it over to Johnny for the oil and gas side.
Good morning.
Please turn over to slide 15.
Both slides 15 and 16 provide the financial highlights for oil and gas for the second quarter.
Production and revenue for Q2 2012 was lower than Q1 for oil and gas.
The difference in production in addition to normal declines was due to mainly to downtime of two of our larger shelf deals including SMI 130 that Owen mentioned our facility repairs and downtime from tropical storm Debby.
We did have some downtime due to that and downtime in one of our field from third party pipelines.
Our production mix in Q2 was 73% oil.
Turn it over to slide 16; our operating costs were slightly higher in Q2 with the major difference being in our work over expense cash flow.
The higher work over expense were largely a result of the facility repair work on the two shelf properties that I mentioned previously.
Looking forward we are excited about the new oil discovery on our Danny II well in the Bushwood field.
We are currently in the process of completing the well.
We are waiting on the lab for detail results from the compositional analysis results of the liquid samples obtained by MDT tests but we expect to flow the Danny II well back to our East Cameron 3D1 facility through the same flow line as we flow the Danny I well.
Utilizing the existing infrastructure will allow us to start up Danny II early in the fourth quarter.
Danny II should produce in excess of 3000 barrels equivalent per day net to our interest.
Also in the Bushwood field we have the Nancy well which was drilled in fourth quarter 2008.
It’s been completed and is waiting to flow.
First production from Nancy is now estimated for Q4 of 2012.
This gas well will add over 2000 barrels equivalent net to our interest per day.
The Phoenix field and the HP1 continue to produce very well in Q2.
We have received the APD and contracted a rig to drill our Wang well.
The rig for the Wang will not be available now until early Q4.
Therefore we have scheduled first production for Q1 of 2013.
If successful the Wang well will also add over 3000 barrels of oil equivalent per day net to our interest.
Lloyd? Thanks Johnny.
Turning over to slide 17.
Slide 17 provides a summary of our current commodity heads positions for the second and half of 2012 and for the fully year of 2013.
For the remainder of this year we have approximately 2.6 million barrels of oil equivalent hedged which covers approximately 79% of our forecasted Q3 and Q4 combined production.
For the fully year of 2012 we have hedged approximately 74% of our estimated combined oil and gas production of 7 million barrels of oil equivalent.
During the second quarter we entered into additional Brent crude oil hedges for 2013 and as a result we have hedges in place totaling approximately 3.7 barrels of oil equivalent.
Our 2013 floor price were all hedges as approximately $100 per barrels.
And for natural gas the floor price is slightly above $4 per MCF.
Regarding our oil hedges approximately 90% of our current hedges in place by volume for the remainder of 2012 and for 2013 are based on the Brent benchmark as it continues to be a significant spread between WTI and Brent.
The actual spread in the second quarter between WTI or what we asked to receive for our Gulf of Mexico crude sales was approximately $13 per barrels.
Turning over to slide 19.
And this slide profiles our current gross and net debt levels and liquidity position at June 30.
Gross debt of $1.18 billion was essentially unchanged for March 31 but our net debt decreased $29 million to $531 million as our cash on hand increased to $650 million from $620 million.
And our current net debt to book capitalization ratio stands at 25% at June 30.
Our liquidated position remained at a very health $1.1 billion the same as the end of the first quarter.
Over to slide 20.
Slide 20 provides a current update on our overall debt maturity profile as of June 30.
There have not been any significant changes in the debt profile since the end of March other than schedules loan amortization totaling $2 million.
I would like to point out that the holders of our remaining $3.75% convertible senior notes due in 2025 have at first option to put the box to us in December of this year.
After this optional put of the 2025 convertible senior notes our next near term maturity is not until July 2015 when our credit facility matures.
Maturity dates of the term loans and the revolver which comprise the credit facility can be extended into 2016 if we have refinanced or repaid the remaining $275 million over 9.5% senior unsecured notes in full by the 2015 maturity date.
Tony? Thanks Lloyd.
As we move on to slide 22 we are holding our EBIDAX forecast for all of 2012 at greater than $600 million.
The key variables impacting this forecast.
In addition to the commodity price assumption shown on this chart are little or no tropical storm disruptions impacting our oil and gas business from this point on and beyond set of production from Danny II at the beginning of Q4.
As Johnny mentioned we expect to complete this well by mid-August.
We have lowered our production forecast for the entire year at 7 million barrels of oil equivalent based on some of the downtime we had in Q2 and this is slightly lower than our original forecast of 7.5 million barrels.
Furthermore we have adjusted our oil and commodity price forecast to reflect the down tag in all prices we have seen since the end of Q1.
We now forecast realize $98 for our oil production for the remainder of 2012 net of hedges.
Again despite the lower production levels and oil price assumptions we still expect to generate in excess of $600 million of the EBITDA for the year and this is directly the result of the strong outlook for our contracting services business.
Our well Intervention vessels continue to expand backlog and the Q4000 is now booking backlog in the 2014 while the Seawell and Well Enhancer nearly fully booked for 2013.
Robotics continues to run at high-activity levels for both the oil field and the renewable energy markets.
The Grand Canyon is expected to join the ROV support vessel fleet in August.
And our newest trencher the T1200 is already in water and contributing.
Our CapEx estimate for 2012 is now $635 million up from our original forecast as a result of the announcement we made this morning on the acquisition and conversion of the D5-34 drill ship which is estimated to have an all in capital cost of $180 million.
Additionally $130 million of the $635 million in CapEx slated for the new Q plus Well Intervention semi of which we have already paid some $60 million in the first quarter.
Aside from the Grand Canyon for our robotic fleet we have contracted two additional ROV support vessels under long-term charter arrangements based on a very favorable outlook for the ROV business.
Both for the oil field and for the renewable energy market.
Both of these vessels are copycats for the Grand Canyon vessel.
And these two vessels are expected to be delivered in 2013 and 2014 respectively and will either replace existing long term chartered vessels in our robotics fleet or depending upon market conditions will actually serve to increase our ROV support capacity in the future.
I will skip slides 27 and 28 I’ll leave them for our reference and at this time I’ll turn the call back over to Owen for closing remarks.
Thanks Tony.
Well things are pretty exciting for Helix right now.
As you know we put a lot of effort into building our balance sheet strength and refocusing on the company’s service contracting.
We are well positioned for the increasing demand that we see for our services especially in well ops and robotics.
And we are into the initial phase of some exciting expansion of our capacity in these areas.
In well ops over the past 12 months we have or are adding one new Intervention riser system that we are currently running to produce for use on their contracted drill rigs.
We are in construction on another system that will be deployed on a newly chartered vessel.
To process or modifying this new chartered vessel for application to the light Well Intervention market in 2013.
We announced and started work on the Q plus the next evolutionary step-up from the Q4000 for heavy Intervention market starting early 2015.
And we’ve just announced the acquisition of a drill ship that we’ll modify for heavy intervention in the flood and abandonment market.
We’re also beginning the construction of another intervention riser system and we’re assessing additional vessel addition depending on financial strength as we believe we’ll still be asset constrained following these additions.
In robotics we have or are adding 10 world-class vehicles all of which have their first full year of contribution in 2013.
We’ve successfully introduced ROV drill as a new and vital technology for the geo-technical quarrying market.
We’ve now taken delivery of our new T1200 Trencher as Tony mentioned which recently went into service on an interim vessel as we await delivery of the new build chartered vessel the Grand Canyon.
We’ve also committed to two additional new build vessels that will be added to our fleet one each in 2013 and 2014.
We do see the demand and have intentions of continuing this growth.
All this is pretty exciting for us and will be reflected in our 2013 forecast as we go through our budgeting process later on this year.
And at this time we’ll be happy to take any questions.
Thank you.
(Operator instructions).
Our first question comes from the line of Jim Rollyson with Raymond James.
Good morning guys.
Owen could you give us a little more detail on the Discover 534 just in terms of once you get this converted and up and running maybe what kind of capacity you think this holds maybe in relation to the Q4000 and kind of relative pricing for this asset versus what you’ve got in the intervention fleet today? That’s an awful lot Jim.
I don’t know how specific I can get on everything right now.
She is a drill ship.
She’s had a remarkable career drilling.
She’s very successful.
We are going to be making some modifications for her to make her more efficient for the intervention market and we’re targeting heavy intervention.
So it should be able to do most of what the Q4000 can do.
But I think primarily we’ve had a lot of interest from clients not just in the Gulf of Mexico but from other regions as well looking for a P&amp;A solution and we just are completely asset constrained.
So by having this asset it allows us to tackle the demand that we’re seeing from clients in a number of regions as well as perhaps shift some work off the Q4000 and make it available for other work.
Are there opportunities or do you have any desire to pursue any other assets like this for similar type business or is this kind of a one off deal based on customer demand? I think we’ll let sort of the market dictate that Jim as well as our balance sheet.
We can only – I think we’re adding assets about as aggressively as we can and right now given our financial strength.
We don’t want re-lever the company back up.
And we also are pretty maxed out on the human resources that we have for initiating growth.
So we’re moving about as aggressively as we can.
We are like I said in my comments that we are still assessing other options and we’ll be looking for additional vessels in the future because this is something that’s going to be enough to meet all the demand that we’re seeing.
Sure.
Last one for me.
You guys have been pretty positive in commentary about the robotics business obviously adding some assets some more world class ROVs and support vessels etc.
Can you maybe characterize kind of how the pricing is in that business today and how you see that going forward maybe compared to what it’s been over the last few years? Cliff I think you’re probably closer to the answer a little better.
Okay yeah sure.
Well the pricing is one thing but sheer volume of work is the other.
Besides our traditional oil and gas work where we started there’s also the wind farm work the renewable energy work that’s continuing to grow at a pretty aggressive rate in Europe.
So that’s one side of it over in the North Sea and over on the Gulf of Mexico side we’ve also – after post Macondo and the permits getting re-released and rigs coming back to the Gulf etc.
We’re anticipating more work in the Gulf that we’re already seeing that we’ve tied up with a major contractor here who we’ve got a pretty good relationship for doing construction work.
As far as the pricing they’re continuing to creep up.
It’s a bit of a supply and demand thing so different times of the year different regions are higher.
But we’ve also seen some of the post hurricane work in the Gulf several contractors popped up and after all that hurricane work we’ve done those contractors seem to be evaporating.
So there’s less players here in the Gulf of Mexico.
So we do anticipate the rates to go up while we’re contracting these three boats.
Great.
Helpful color.
Thanks guys.
Our next question comes from the line of Martin Malloy with Johnson Rice &amp; Company.
Good morning.
You mentioned that you’re building a few other well intervention systems.
Is there any help you can give us in terms of the capital cost of those systems and the returns that you look for? The capital cost is a little difficult to nail down because you have differing regulatory environments for each of the regions in the world.
We’ve been doing a lot of the work over the last few years in trying to standardize.
But handle hard I can’t tell you that we’ve got one standard that suffices everywhere.
The capital cost I can tell you ranges from $15 million to $35 million depending on the type of system requested.
Okay.
And then with regards to the Caesar vessel has there been any change in terms of the outlook for potentially getting some pipelay work for that vessel after the Pemex job that it’s currently on? Yeah I can probably answer that Owen.
Well I think as I said in the slide section there we’re contracted down in Mexico now through July of next year and our plan is to we’re actively bidding S lay pipe work for the Caesar now and our plan is to continue that and stop the work down in the accommodations in the end of July and we’ve got some more commissioning work to do at the end of that in July.
It will probably take a couple of months and then roll straight into pipelay is our plan.
Okay.
Thank you.
Martin Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Joe Gibney with Capital One.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Cliff question for you on the Express.
A lot of the Intrepid stacking I’m sure was a asset specific issue but you referenced firming up a little bit more work for the Express in the fourth quarter when it gets back in the Gulf of Mexico.
Has anything changed in your outlook for that particular asset as you look into next year? Does pipelay feel and look a little bit softer given your ascertations of the market and your decision of stacking the Intrepid? Just curious if you can comment about what you’ve got in the queue for the Express perhaps near term? Yeah.
We’re pretty bullish about the Express.
It’s in the North Sea right now doing some work.
It will come back over here.
It’s got a pretty extensive backlog when it gets here.
I think it’s got basically the rest of the year we have maybe a 20 day hole or so we could – to fill up.
So we feel pretty good about the Express as far as our utilization for next year.
There’s not a lot of those type of assets in the Gulf here where we plan on using the vessel and it remains to be seen whether we take it back to an RC any next year or not.
Okay that’s helpful.
And John just a question for you.
Just want to clarify a little bit about your comments about Danny II production.
You referenced in excess of 3000 barrels in that per day.
Your previous figure was 3600.
Is that still attainable or are you sort of going to hold judgment here until we can complete the well here by mid August? Just trying to ascertain whether or not that is lower than initially expected or where we stand on that? I don’t think our rate projections on Danny II have changed yet.
I was just being maybe a little more conservative until we actually get the lab results from the MDT samples that we took in the well.
We don’t have – we opened up one of the chambers and we know we had black oil in the chamber.
So we know we have an oil well but we don’t know exactly what the gas to oil ratio is and our position there yet.
So I don’t think we have had anything else that would give us any change there.
Okay fair enough.
Appreciate it.
Last one for me just clarify the number of world class ROV additions.
I thought it was six for the year.
I don’t know if that’s still on track.
I thought I heard referenced it to 10 for the year out of Owen.
I just wanted to clarify what world class ROV additions in ’12 is.
Is it six or is it 10? Yeah I think what Owen was saying there was his comment was that they have a full year of contribution in 2013 because they’re staggered in.
Some came in end of last year.
Some are coming in through this year some will come next year.
So as they staggered in they’re all going to have contribution for ’13.
All right fair enough.
Thank you.
I’ll turn it back.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Marino with Stephens.
Good morning.
First question for Tony.
I know it’s a little early to ask about 2013 CapEx but Owen you rattled of a bunch of things that you guys are pursuing and with I guess the conversion and then the new build.
Could you give us a little bit of insight into how much you kind of expect to spend on the contracting side just maybe ballpark it for us in 2013? Well we have no plans to buy another drillship at this time.
So that won’t be reflected in our CapEx guidance.
We’ll spend a like amount in 2013 for the Q Plus as we will in 2012.
We have very scheduled payments to the shipyard on the Q Plus.
I would expect 2013 CapEx to be lower overall and really a lot lower because of lower spending on oil and gas.
Without the Wang well in 2013 without Danny II in 2013 we should expect a lot lower CapEx in total.
So I think overall you’re going to see our capital spending lower in 2013.
What do you expect total cost for Wang and Danny II to be? Round numbers Johnny? 175 million.
Together total yeah.
Okay.
And then just as a follow up for Owen.
I guess previously you talked about the Caesar being a non-core asset.
Is that still the case and maybe if that thing can prove up its capability in pipelay you would look to divest that or where do you – what are you thinking there? I don’t think that our aspirations with the Caesar have changed.
We still consider it non-core to our group of services that we offer to the extent that we could find another home for it we’d be open to it.
Okay perfect.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from the line of Joshua Jayne with Simmons &amp; Co.
Thanks.
First question on contracting services.
Gross margins were a little bit light from the dry docks but with the number of them behind you for the year how can we think about a progression for the back half of the year and can we get back to Q1 levels? Josh I think certainly the dry docks weighed on our margins both from a volume standpoint plus we incurred incremental R&amp;M expenditures associated with the Q4000 while she was in dry dock.
So I would expect at minimum that our gross profit margins will increase in our contracting service business going forward with the only counterbalance to that being the Express was probably our highest earning asset in Q2.
It came off of a very successful project in Israel and has a little bit of that in July but won’t be as profitable in Q3 as it was in Q2.
So that will taper some of the increase in gross profit margins in Q3.
With that vessel we have a transit back across the Atlantic with it as well and we’ve got a dry dock at the Enhancer.
Yeah.
And Enhancer dry dock should not be as prolonged as either the dry docks in Q2 as she’s a much newer vessel.
So right now we’re not anticipating any surprises on the well Enhancer but you never know once you get into dry dock.
But overall I think to answer your question it’s a long answer to say we expect margins to go up.
Sounds good.
Another one just on floater rates in general.
We’ve seen a number of positive deepwater filtration in the Gulf for the past couple of weeks with some contracts extending out into 2016.
Could you talk about how this frames your optimism around the Q4000 and if pricing has continued to inch higher as you increase your backlog on that vessel? I think with rates going up very well for our heavy well intervention assets.
Just seeing that Josh period.
It can only help.
Okay.
And then last one on the balance sheet.
Does this acquisition lower the probability that you might take out some of your high yield debt at the beginning of next year and could you just talk about sort of your plans for the balance sheet over the next couple of quarters? Josh I think that’s a very perceptive question and I think the answer to that is we are less likely to call the high yield notes in early 2016 and we might but otherwise if we had acquired the D 534.
The jury is out but I think we’re going to be less aggressive about doing that I’ll just say that.
Okay.
Our next question comes from the line of Anthony Gugel with Upstream.
Yes hi.
Just one question do you see increased competition in the well P&amp;A market? Could that be another drive for acquiring the D 534? And I ask also particularly because I heard Diamond Offshore's call and they made reference to the P&amp;A market in the Gulf specifically mentioning the ocean Saratoga.
I’m sure that the demand in the P&amp;A market is going to create well there’s going to be more demand than what can currently be provided.
So yes I do expect other competitive offerings to be in the market on the P&amp;A side.
I think it’s important for us.
We have long term assets coming specifically targeting the heavy intervention side.
A lot of our utilization is taken on our current assets by P&amp;A.
So it was important for us to have a P&amp;A offering both to free up near term asset availability and to fill the market demand between now and when our new asset the Q plus arrives.
Okay.
Thank you.
And there are no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the call back to you for any further presentation or closing remarks.
Okay.
Thanks for joining us today.
We very much appreciate your interest and participation and look forward to having you participate on our third quarter 2012 call in October.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Felicia and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to review third quarter 2012 results conference call.
All lines have been placed on-mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder today’s conference call is being recorded today Tuesday October 23rd.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Terrence Jamerson.
Mr.
Jamerson you may begin.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
Joining me we have Owen Kratz our CEO; Tony Tripodo our CFO; Cliff Chamblee Executive Vice President of Contracting Services; Johnny Edwards Executive Vice President of Oil and Gas; Alisa Johnson our General Counsel and Lloyd Hajdik our SVP of Finance.
Hopefully you all have had an opportunity to review our press release and the related slide presentation released last night.
If you do not have a copy of these materials both can be accessed through the Investor Relations page on our website at www.helixesg.com.
The press release can be accessed under the Press Releases’ tab and the slide presentation can be accessed by clicking on today’s webcast icon.
Before we begin our prepared remarks Alisa will make a statement regarding forward-looking information.
During this conference call we anticipate making certain projections and forward-looking statements based on our current expectations.
All statements in this conference call or in the associated presentation other than statements of historical facts are forward-looking statements and are made under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Our actual future results may differ materially from our projections and forward-looking statements due to a number and variety of factors including those set forth in our Slide 2 and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2011.
Also during this call certain non-GAAP financial disclosures maybe made.
In accordance with SEC rules the final slides of our presentation materials provide a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP measures to comparable GAAP financial measures.
The reconciliation along with this presentation the earnings press release our annual report and a replay of this broadcast are available on our website.
Owen will now make some opening remarks.
Good morning everyone.
Let’s move on to slide five which is a high level summary of third quarter results.
Quarter three’s revenues decreased slightly from $347 million in Q2 to $336 million this quarter with the decrease attributable to lower oil and gas revenues resulting from production disruptions associated with Hurricane Isaac normal decline curves as well as lower realized oil prices.
On the other hand our Contracting Services’ revenues increased from Q2 as the Q4000 and Seawell returned to service for full quarter off of their regulatory drydocks in the prior quarter.
Robotics also posted a stronger quarter reflecting robust activity levels particularly in the North Sea.
I believe it’s important to note that for the first time in many many quarters the significant majority of our overall EBITDA was generated by our Contracting Services business as opposed to our E&amp;P business.
This reflects the very markets we’re operating in and the outlook for our well intervention and Robotics business remains very strong.
On to slide six and seven from an EPS perspective Q3’s earnings had a fair amount of noise; posted EPS of $0.14 was impacted by a variety of irregular items.
First we sold the Intrepid pipelay vessel in Q3 for $14.5 million resulting in a pretax book loss of $12.9 million.
As you may recall the Intrepid was the vessel we elected to cold stack the prior quarter due to the lack of market visibility along with the amount of expenditures that would have been required to maintain regulatory class certification.
I will talk some more about the divestiture of our entire pipelay fleet which we announced last week more in my closing remarks.
Second we took an impairment charge of $4.4 million to reduce the book value of certain of our Australian well intervention assets that are being held-for-sale.
We decided to pair back the scope operations in Australia where we have struggled to achieve consistently acceptable financial results.
Third we finally closed the book on our sole UK oil and gas property Camelot by completing the decommissioning activities and booking an additional pretax charge of $6 million associated with these activities.
Last Hurricane Isaac shutdown our production in the Gulf of Mexico for all the part of 10 days in Q3 resulting in the deferral of approximately 130 000 barrels of oil equivalent with the pretax impact of $7.5 million.
On an after-tax basis the impact of these four items amounted to $0.21 per share.
In addition to the above items we flipped in $10.1 million non-cash hedge gain in Q2 to a non-cash hedge loss of $9.4 million.
Non-cash hedge loss in Q3 neared $20 million swing.
Our oil and gas production in the third quarter totaled 1.5 million barrels of oil equivalent down from 1.7 million barrels of oil equivalent in Q2.
Quarter three’s production was affected by the previously discussed impact of Hurricane Isaac as well as natural declines.
We continue to benefit from a high majority of our production being oil 72% as well as oil sold at Louisiana Light Sweet prices which is currently at a significant premium to West Texas intermediate prices.
We realized $98.5 a barrel net of our oil hedges hedge contracts in Q3.
In addition NGL production along with our natural gas hedge contracts allowed us to realize $5.69 per 1 000 cubic feet for our natural gas production in Q3.
From a balance sheet perspective our cash and liquidity levels remained strong.
Cash decreased from $650 million at June 30th to $584 million at September 30th mainly owing to our acquisition of the Transocean D534 drillship which we’ve renamed the H534 for 85 million in August.
We're in the process of converting this vessel to well intervention assets; our liquidity levels of more than $1 billion remains high.
I'll now turn it over to Cliff for an in-depth discussion of our contracting service results.
As you can see contracting service revenues improved quarter-over-quarter by approximately (inaudible) in the Q4 return from [dry dock] offsetting Well Enhancer dry dock in Q3.
The benefit of having only one vessel in dry dock in the third quarter versus two vessels in Q2 can also be seen as a gross profit improvement.
Q3 profits were 27% was 7% higher than gross profits in Q2.
Collectively the third quarter utilization across all three business units and contracting services were at the highest level for the year.
Both well intervention vessels return from dry docks in Q2 the Seawell and Q4000 were at 100% utilization for the quarter.
All the intervention support vessels were at nearly (inaudible) utilization also at 98% for the quarter and the Express season rent 93% utilization in Q3 on a combined basis.
Turn over to slide 10.
Again as I mentioned on the previous slide the Q4000 was fully utilized in the third quarter.
Her backlog now extends completely through the end of 2014 with customers interest remaining strong in the years beyond 2014.
The Intervention riser system number two was a significant contributor to Well Intervention profits for the quarter as well as that was deployed off the Ocean Victory drill rig for 55 days in Q3.
Conversion of our newly acquired drill ship Helix 534 remains on schedule as she is expected to enter the Gulf of Mexico in mid-2013.
We're seeing strong customer interest (inaudible) and is anticipating adding significant sand backlog in the near future.
In the North Sea the Seawell was also fully utilized for the third quarter while the Well Enhancer was in dry dock for a total of 52 days.
The drydock was completed earlier this month and the Well Enhancer is now back in service.
We continue to add 2013 backlog for both vessels which now stands at over 500 days next year between the two.
As many of you are now aware we signed a long-term charter with the Skandi Constructor vessel in Q3.
We now take over the chartered vessel till next year we’d already have over 75 days of backlog signed on this vessel and we already expect it to commence in the middle of 2013.
We move on to slide 11 under Robotics.
We saw another great quarter for this business unit as strong utilization in both long-term charter and spot vessels and this business improved quarter-over-quarter.
Our next trencher the T1200 which is pictured on the right on the slide successfully completed its first job in quarter three.
We also placed two more ROVs in service in the third quarter two more ROVs were purchased earlier in 2012 and we’re extremely excited about signing one of our [ROV] drill units to a multi-year agreement expected to begin in January of 2013 as well with the performing of the geotechnical survey work.
We plan to place two more ROVs in the service in Q4 both of those ROVs will be placed on our newest charter vessel the Grand Canyon which has finally entered our fleet this month.
On to slide 12 in Subsea Construction the Express had another strong quarter with 94% utilization as she wrapped up the campaign in the North Sea and transited back to the Gulf of Mexico in September where it’s currently working.
The Caesar continued its accommodations work down in Mexico where she is remaining through until July of 2013.
And last just a brief touch on the last two [ports] (inaudible) here.
Last week we announced an agreement to sell all three of our pipeline vessels which Owen will be addressing in more detail in his closing remarks.
On to slide 13 I’ll leave this slide (inaudible) utilization for your reference and with that I will turn it over to Johnny for the oil and gas slide.
Good morning please turn to slide 14.
Slides 14 and 15 provide the financial highlights for oil and gas for the third quarter.
Production and revenue for Q3 2012 were lower than Q2 for oil and gas the difference as Owen mentioned is production was mainly down from hurricane Isaac about 130 000 barrels of oil equivalent and the revenue was further reduced by about $9 a barrel reduction in average realized oil price in the third quarter compared to Q2.
Our production mix in Q3 remains 72% oil which is consistent with Q2.
Turning over to slide 15 our operating cost were 7 million higher in Q3 with the difference being the timing of the cat bond of $8 million in Q3.
Most of the cat bond charge is allocated to Q3 which is the peak of the hurricane season.
Looking forward we are excited about the new oil discovery in our Danny II well in the Bushwood field.
We currently are in the process of hooking up the Danny II through the same [flow] line which Danny 1 flows.
We should have Danny II on production about the end of this week and we expect Danny II to produce over 3 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day net to (inaudible).
Also in the Bushwood field the Nancy well which was drilled in fourth quarter 2008 has been completed and is waiting to flow.
First production from Nancy is now estimated for Q1 or at the end of Q1 in 2013.
This gas well will add over 2 000 barrels oil equivalent net to ERT.
The Phoenix field and the HP1 continue to produce very well in Q3 the HP1 left the Phoenix field for eight days for hurricane Isaac.
The HP1 returned to the field took up the [buoy] and returned Phoenix to production.
The drilling rate for the Wang well should around in the Phoenix field by the end of this week.
The Wang well is an exploration well in the Phoenix field targeting a separate fall block in the same sand which is currently producing in the existing wells.
The success for the Wang well will also add over 3000 barrels of oil equivalent for day net the ERT over to you Lloyd.
Slide 16 updates our current commodity hedge positions for the fourth quarter of 2012 and the full year 2013.
For the remainder of this year we have approximately 1.2 million barrels of oil equivalent hedged which covers approximately 86% our forecasted Q4 combined production.
In the full year 2012 we will have hedged approximately 78% of our estimated combine oil and gas production of 6.6 million barrels of oil equivalent.
We did not put any additional natural gas or crude oil hedges in place in the third quarter.
At 2013 we have hedges in place totaling approximately 3.7 million barrels oil equivalent and our 2013 floor price for our oil hedges is just under a $100 per barrel and for natural gas the floor price is slightly above $4 for Mcf.
Regarding our oil hedges over 90% of our current hedges in place by volume for the fourth quarter of 2012 and for 2013 are based on the Brent benchmark as it continues to be a significant spread between WTI and Brent.
The differential in the third quarter between WTI and what we actually see for our Gulf of Mexico crude oil sales was approximately $10 per barrel.
Turning to slide 18 this slide profiles our current gross and net debt levels and liquidity position in September 30.
Gross debt of $1.17 billion was essentially unchanged from June 30 while our net debt increased $58 million to $589 million.
Our cash balance has decreased from $650 million at June 30 to $584 million at September 30 as we deployed cash per current CapEx needs namely the $85 million to purchased the Helix 534 from Transocean in August and for our ongoing newbuild semisubmersible the Q5000 and our current net debt to book capitalization ratio stands at 27% at September 30.
Our liquidity position was a very robust $1.0 billion plus as of the end of the third quarter.
Over to slide 19 this slide provides a current update on our overall debt maturity profile as of September 30.
There really have not been any significant changes in our debt positions since the end of June other than loan amortization totaling $10.3 million in the quarter.
Tony? Thank you.
Thank you Lloyd and I am going to move over to slide 21 and good morning to everybody.
First of all we're maintaining our EBITDAX cash flow for all of 2012 that [created] $600 million despite the impact of Hurricane Isaac production disruption in Q3.
Our contracting service business remains strong and we have very high yield vessel utilization levels for the remainder of 2012.
And so far the sales of pipelay assets go there is really no 2012 impact forecasted for the spinning transaction this year from an EBITDA perspective as the closing will take place estimated in February for the Express in July for the Caesar.
The key variables impacting Q4 in addition to the commodity price assumptions shown on the chart is the offset of production from Danny II on the schedule that Johnny outlined earlier which is sometime this week where it lowered our production forecast for the entire year to 6.6 million barrels of oil equivalent reflecting a part downtime impact from Hurricane Isaac in Q3.
Furthermore we have adjusted our all in commodity price forecast reflect a down tick in oil prices which we have seen since the end of quarter one and quarter two.
However again I want to emphasize our overall EBITDA guidance for 2012 remains intact.
Our well intervention vessels continue to expand backlog and the Q4000 is now looking backlog through 2014 while the Seawell and Well Enhancer are nearly fully booked for 2013.
Our total backlog for the well intervention business is now at historic levels in excess of $500 million at the end of the quarter.
Robotics continues to run at high activity levels both for the oilfield and renewable energy markets.
The Grand Canyon has now joined the ROV support vessel fleet.
Our CapEx estimate for 2012 has now been lower to $545 million as some of our previously anticipated CapEx spending has been pushed out to 2013.
We have spent $340 million in CapEx for the nine months and the remainder of the CapEx in 2012 is associated mainly with the Q5000 and the H534 conversion in the Wang exploratory well.
You now see overseas our Express vessels in Q4 will result in an after-tax impairment charge of $100 million in Q4 related to the Caesar.
I’ll now skip slides 26 and 27 leave them for your reference and I’ll return the call back to Owen for closing remarks.
Thanks Tony.
We have an awful lot of other things going on inside the company right now.
For some time now we’ve made it clear that our strategic intent was to restore the focus of the company to our contracting service business with a specific focus on leveraging our strong market positions in well intervention and robotics.
The first step in this transition was to restore the financial strength in our balance sheet.
Step two is to begin the deployment of capital into growing well intervention and robotics.
This can be seen with the addition of world class vehicles the T1200 trencher the Grand Canyon robotics support vessel the H534 intervention vessel the IRS number two which is renal intervention system that we have.
The charter of this can be constructed going into the North Sea market and initiation of the construction of the Q5000.
At the same time we have continued to deploy capital to sustain our oil and gas production deal significant positive free cash flow.
Overtime as we generate cash and realize the new growth in well intervention and robotics we have said that our intent is to divest of non-core assets; this allows for effective reallocation of capital and simplifies the business model.
Consistent with our stated strategy last week we announced the sale of all three of our pipelay assets.
This was not a strong market niche for us and our decision was to focus on our strength and well intervention and robotics.
The impairment realized in Q4 will not be small but the price received is that multiple of five times 2012 EBITDA levels and an even higher multiple when looking at longer term run rate that we would expect.
Similarly we have downsized our operations in Australia due to the difficulty in achieving consistent good financial returns.
This creates a bit of noise in our reporting but it should be taken as a positive indication of the execution of our long standing strategy.
The transformation of the company is well underway and going quite well.
We have good visibility and strong demand for all of our current well intervention and robotic assets as well as those newly added or are on the way.
We see continuing to be asset constrained and we will continue the transition of the company by potentially adding assets and resources going forward.
We are actually in the process about adding additional facilities both in Houston and Aberdeen to accommodate this future growth.
Our position of well intervention and robotics is strong and we are focused on the next steps.
With that at this time we will turn it back over for some questions.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Jim Rollyson with Raymond James.
Owen it sounds pretty bullish on the green side especially on the intervention.
A couple of questions maybe around that maybe for one given the fact that you have continued to add backlog onto especially the Q4000 now through ‘14 and as well a few well in Express kind of curious about the pricing side of things.
If the market this strong I presumed that pricing or margin opportunities have continued to get a little bit better.
So maybe talk about how we should think about margins over the course of the next couple of years a backlog or they kind of slopping upward and maybe what opportunities you have to further expand margins given to your assets constraint comment? I might let Cliff answer because he is involved with the market from day-to-day but let me just start out by saying.
I think rates will go up but having said that I don't think they were looking to be opportunistic.
I think we are in for the long haul and we want to serve our client based with a consistent level of performance that at a good price.
The market is still very competitive.
I think our rates are going to be tied more to our corporate return hurdles based on return on capital but these are expensive assets and costs are increasing.
So rates will go up but we're very mindful of the return on capital targets.
Yeah I agree what you said there our intention is to fill the market that we're not able to do with our assets.
As you mentioned with third quarter backlog and our clients are hungry for more assets to build out immediately and hence the 534 coming and we’re getting now what we believe to be reasonable returns and set ourselves internally to drive those rates and so we don’t see a huge upturn in the rates.
We're just trying to build the market (inaudible) rates.
And from being asset constrained standpoint should we expect you mentioned looking at other opportunities should we be looking more for additional charter opportunities or more 534 type opportunities or more Q5000 type opportunities or is it all of the above? Yes but to put it in a better framework we have spend we’ve had a number of years here to really plan our strategy and look hard at this market.
We’ve looked at a lot of the floating assets out there.
Our moves with the 534 with the Skandi Constructor we're sort of picking the best of the best.
I think it's our preference long-term to have newbuild purpose build dedicated especially assets suited to the Well Intervention and Robotics market so I think going forward our bias would be on newbuild versus picking up additional older vessels.
Makes sense; and last one from me it’s kind of switching gears maybe not quite as exciting but on the production side of things obviously you guys had issues in the quarter with the hurricane as did everybody.
But when I look back to say the second quarter and you produced well over almost 19 000 barrels a day and that’s obviously fallen down in the third quarter because of the Hurricanes but starting off first part of October with 14 000 a day run rate kind of works out to about 25% decline rate in six months or so.
Curious just how should we think about decline rates notwithstanding the new projects you’ve kind of outlaid what the production rates will be for those but how do you guys think about decline rates or what we should model for your underlying decline rates? Is it just normal decline or is this some other mechanical or geological issues that have caused that to fall off so quickly? Yeah this is Johnny Edwards.
The Gulf of Mexico typical decline rate for oil without adding new projects 25% is actually a good decline; typically it can 30% or more.
But 25% kind of reflects oil projects which were 70% plus oil so I think that’s not a bad decline to model in short of the new projects that’ll be coming on stream.
But is that the sum we should model in on an annual basis right; not over a six month period? Right that’s an annual 25% 25% to 30%.
Jim I think if you go back to the end of last year in our guidance going forward we sort of talked about the decline here lowering production for a period of time until we had our new projects coming on-stream at which time we would expect to exceed our historic production levels for a while.
And I think that’s still the case I think it’s shifting around a little bit just because of the timing of the projects and availability of rigs.
But I think that model is sort of what you’re seeing play-out.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Gibney with Capital One.
Owen the questions are on how we should think about longer term margins in marine or move some of the lumpiness of pipeline out certainly robotics and well intervention are running in elevated levels and historic is kind of a low to mid 20% gross margin mindset inclusive of construction.
Should we sort of more firmly view this as a high 20% is better run rate going forward now given what you are seeing in the market? Yeah certainly Joe I think you really almost answered your question.
We certainly see much higher margins in well intervention and robotics than we do and Subsea Construction.
So absence of Subsea Construction we just see our margins trend upward it’s purely in robotics and well intervention.
Along those lines I was curious what could you breakout possibly the pipeline vessel contribution in terms of revenue and EBITDA in this most recent completed quarter? I will just say that directionally the Subsea Construction revenues were down in Q3 and that’s really a factor of Q2 being so good for a Subsea Construction because express work in [Israel] and in North Sea.
I think quarter four will trend little bit downward as well.
For Subsea Construction we don’t have as high utilization for (inaudible).
On the other hand we expect well intervention to pick up in Q4 as the Well Enhancer comes back and we’ll have all three vessels working and we expect kind of a similar quarter if not a little down for robotics as we don’t have as much visibility for spot market in Q4 and some of that is seasonal.
So overall I think we are going to see kind of roughly a similar quarter in quarter four of the contracting services compared to Q3.
In terms of the contribution of revenues Subsea Construction contributed about 15% of our revenues in contract and services in Q3.
And Owen I just one for you to strategically just (inaudible) on kind of retaining this pool based given the sales some of the pipelay assets and how that (inaudible) is providing third parties moving services as if they want to be in longer time and such as it is highly accretive to margin mix I just want to get your thoughts on that if it’s still a part of the piece of which you want to deal on the green side going forward? I don't know that place that strong of a role going the strategic framework of the company but have been said that the there is a shortage of quality deep water for facilities in the Gulf of Mexico ours is really one of the best.
We do believe that there is a decent third party service to provide to the industry and providing spooling for other contractors.
I sort of never understood why every contractor had their spooling base.
And then on top of that I think there is other thing we have a lot of additional land down there so there is other uses we can put it to.
And having said that it’s an appreciating asset and the quality assets that we don't monitoring onto.
I didn't see on the slide that no its become an increasingly minor piece of the business but what was the equity income breakdown between (inaudible) and Marco Polo this quarter.
And I was also just curious to get your thoughts on your ongoing G&amp;A run rate Johnny.
It’s really a last same as last quarter.
In terms of the contribution and in terms of SG&amp;A I would expect it to not vary that much two to three levels on average.
Your next question comes from the line of Martin Malloy with Johnson Rice With all the moving parts on the marine side with adding the 534 and the Skandi Constructor and removing the pipelay vessels.
Once these vessels that are being added the two vessels come in to the fleet can you give us an idea of maybe what mid-cycle EBITDA and maybe high-end low cycle EBITDA might be for the fleet or for the marines? I think I am going to defer on that.
I am sorry but we're right in the middle of our budgeting process and I think we will have a lot better answer for you once we complete the budgeting and look at what next year is going to actually look like.
In addition they don’t really get here till the middle of next year.
If you look at the fall cycle which is what you’re looking at? I think in the past you’ve talked about kind of a low high and mid-cycle EBITDA for the marine side and just with all the moving parts I was wondering if you might update that.
But maybe it sounds like you all prefer to wait.
Yeah I think we prefer to wait.
I would say that we expect the Q5000 to produce EBITDA equal to or better than the Q4000.
We think the H534 will be priced at a level that’s not that much different than the Q4000 and therefore should have pretty good EBITDA contribution.
So all-in-all I think these assets will be nice contributors to EBITDA once they get off in the water and contribute.
I’ll just say that so you can do a little bit of extrapolation from there.
They’ve touched on the backend with Skandi Constructor (inaudible) charter.
Right.
Just short term asset.
And there have been several transactions in last two months for E&amp;P assets in the Gulf of Mexico.
Are you seeing any renewed interest in your assets? Marty I would say that certainly the deal flow has picked up and I think it’s promising but we don’t have anything specifically to say about E&amp;P business from a divestitures standpoint at this time.
Okay.
And then just one last question the FTI Edison Chouest announcement yesterday is that a different market from what you’re really targeting with your well intervention assets? You know its kind off the press Marty it’s difficult for us to comment on it because we’re not sure what Edison Chouest vessel capability is to do well intervention.
We are not sure Edison Chouest has any vessels that can really do heavy well intervention but they did sign --.
They don’t turn out the (inaudible).
So if I had to guess I think they see a pretty strong market in worldwide in some of the things we’re doing and I think there is a good chance for them to team up and start to look at this market.
There has been a much of small end players in the Gulf that have [tempted] some done okay some done not very well at all.
So I think it’s a market everybody is kind of trying in to prying to a little bit now but we are leaps and bounds ahead of (inaudible) assets and vessels.
Your next question comes from the line of Trey Stolz with Iberia Capital Partners.
Hi guys I think Joe covered most of my questions on the -- I want to try and decipher the pipe lay divestiture going forward.
But I guess any thought on reporting of the discontinued operations going forward?  Hi it’s Lloyd.
We are just going through the accounting on that right now and it hasn’t been decided whether or not on the technical literature if it falls as discontinued ops.
Yeah because we obviously have the impairment charge that we have taken up in the fourth quarter and then again on the Express went it closes in Q1 so we are still going through the accounting ramifications on that.
Okay great.
And may be a future stat will might be on holding definitely but are there any other well intervention projects either for NOCs or large independents that you have focused on in the near future?   Well everything that we do from the aspect of deciding to add assets is based on a lot of dialogue with our client base as to what they need and what their aspirations are.
Having said that a vast majority of the market out there in the deepwater is made up of operators with well headcounts that are insufficient to support bankable contracts.
So what we are really focused on is providing the industry with a fleet of kickable assets and then rolling up the utilization as we see it based on dialogue that we are having ongoing.
I got you as opposed to long-term contracts with an individual operator going forward?   Yeah I think there are few and far between and we have sort of got that t-shirt hanging in our closet with our experience all in the disappointing experience with Statoil and the Cat B.
So I think we are much better served our shareholders we better served with maximizing our returns in the open market.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Marino with Stephens Inc.
Question on I guess for robotics crew.
You guys mentioned working an average of seven chartered vessels during the quarter which if memory serves me correctly that’s kind on the high end which you normally do.
I was curious if you could kind of going forward I guess you took the Grand Canyon into the fleet now is the charter vessel number likely to stay around that seven number creep up or what are you seeing in kind of the marketplace and how do you plan on kind of approaching that market from a charter vessel standpoint over the next 18 months?  Well typically we had four vessels on long-term charter and they are staggered and when we pick them up and we can actually release from the long-term charter and then we (inaudible) the spot market with spot vessels.
And right now I think we have four long-term and four short-term vessels in the spot markets so eight vessels today in that market.
And majority of that were historically in the last couple of years has been in the North Sea and maybe West Africa and the mid area but condo with the coming back in the US market as well.
So when we want to bring a couple of vessels into the gulf here in fact one is on the way now.
So from a long-term perspective I think we probably remain at the four or five long-term chartered vessels but we’ll probably be more aggressive on the spot vessels as we are now and gone up to seven or eight as you mentioned.
Do you see that market getting better I guess in the Gulf of Mexico and even the North Sea maybe with the win from the start? Yeah I think and hopefully its improving overtime in the Gulf of Mexico and I think we are still midways from what I call when you are having real up cycle.
You can see the majors are doubling the fleet of drilling rigs which usually means a year or so later a few months later (inaudible) work which is our vessels use to do all the hook up and jewelry work and associated with the (inaudible).
So yeah we see that market picking up in the Gulf not today but slowly over time over the next year picking up.
And just a clarification on some comments made about the backlog for the Q4000 extending well in the 2014.
It sounds like does that include I guess with the D534 coming into the fleet will that take some of the Q backlog or is that Q backlog just for Q and you’ve got other work for the D534? No.
It's not taken work from the Q workflow.
We looked up there for our ways out in the future and on through to 2014 on the Q and even some going into ‘15 but we fully expect to hit the ground running with the 534 when you get through the middle of next year and that’s booked up for quite a while as well.
Your next question comes from the line of Anthony Gugel with Upstream.
I just had a question about the Australian wells intervention market.
You mentioned the margin constraints.
I was just curious is it lower than anticipated levels of demand or is it competition or what led the peer decision there as far as Australia? Yeah it's the inconsistency in the demand.
It's not the competition issue.
It's just that there is not enough consistent work to support the overhead that we had down there.
You know we're getting two or three jobs a year but they are not long enough to support the infrastructure we have down there.
So we decided to scale that operation way back.
Just not consistent work is the answer.
And is that something that can change that down the road I suppose? Well of course it can change.
I think it will change anytime soon.
I think in probably time.
I would just say though I think the market down there the brighter market for us is on the larger developments and the intervention opportunities associated with that plus the cost work and I think that is on a campaign basis those larger projects are equally well served by our either our North Sea or Gulf of Mexico bases.
(Operator Instructions) And there are no further audio questions at this time.
Okay.
Everyone thanks for joining us today.
We very much appreciate your interest and participation and look forward to having you participate on our fourth quarter 2012 call in February of next year.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
And welcome to the review of the Fourth Quarter 2012 Results Conference Call.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Afterwards we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded Thursday February 21 2013.
And I would now like to turn the conference over to Terrance Jamerson Director Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
Joining me today we have Owen Kratz our CEO Tony Tripodo our CFO; Cliff Chamblee Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Alisa Johnson our General Counsel; and Lloyd Hajdik our Senior VP of Finance.
Hopefully you’ve had an opportunity to review our press release and the related slide presentation released last night.
If you do not have a copy of these materials both can be accessed through the Investor Relations page on our website at www.helixesg.com.
The press release can be accessed under the Press Releases tab and the slide presentation can be accessed by clicking on today’s webcast icon.
Before we begin our prepared remarks Alisa Johnson will make a statement regarding forward-looking information.
During this conference call we anticipate making certain projections and forward-looking statements based on our current expectations.
All statements in this conference call or in the associated presentation other than statements of historical facts are forward-looking statements and are made under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Our actual future results may differ materially from our projections and forward-looking statements due to a number and variety of factors including those set forth in our slide two and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2011 and subsequent forms 10-Q.
Also during this call certain non-GAAP financial disclosures maybe made.
In accordance with SEC rules the final slides of our presentation materials provide a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP measures to comparable GAAP financial measures.
The reconciliation along with this presentation the earnings press release our Annual Report and the replay of this broadcast are available on our website.
Owen will now make some opening remarks.
Good morning everyone.
We’re going to begin with slide five which is a high-level summary of fourth-quarter results.
Quarter four results were undoubtedly messy due to the impairment charges we booked on the announced sales of both the oil and gas business and the sale of the Caesar.
When regarding the impact of the strategic transactions our real operating business continue to perform nicely and produced 113 million of EBITDAX although these results are slightly below Q3 EBITDAX of 127 million most of the decline as a result of typically lower seasonal activities associated with our robotics business.
Overall for the year 2012 we finished with a cummatively big debts of 601 million.
On slide six and seven we have enumerated the impact of the impairment charges on our strategic divestiture on this slide so I won’t recite what was recited on slide six.
I will note that we achieved very high utilization 94% for our well intervention fleet.
Although we operated 10 robots robotic support vessels during Q4 four long-term and six – but our actual robotics fleet was only 69% utilized and we incurred in the extraordinary level of uncompensated mode and the demode cost.
Turn to slide seven closing the book so to speak on our oil and gas business our production totaled 1.4 million barrels of oil equivalent in Q4 compared to 1.5 equivalent in Q3.
We continue to realize relatively high pricing for our oil production $99.32 in Q4.
However the real highlight in Q4 was from the oil and gas business related to the successful drilling and discovery of our Wang oil project.
We completed this well in January and although we have now closed on the sale of the oil and gas business we have a continuing economic interest in the Wang well in the form of an overriding royalty interest on future production.
The Wang well is expected to commence production in April.
From the balance sheet perspective our cash and liquidity levels remain strong cash decreased from 584 million at September 30 to 437 million at December 31 mainly attributable to the retirement of 104 – 54 million of convertible notes.
Our liquidity levels of more than 900 million remains high.
I will now turn the call over to Cliff for an in-depth discussion of our contracting services results.
Thanks Owen and good morning everyone.
Contracting services revenues remain strong from Q3 to Q4 primarily due to very strong utilization of the well intervention assets at the well hence returned to service at the beginning of the quarter after 52 day drydock.
However gross profit for contracting services down in the fourth quarter mainly due to normal seasonal decline in robotics as well as one-time mobilization and decommissioning costs incurred at the end of the year which I will get into more detail on the robotics slide here in a minute.
We also had unexpected idle time on Express in December due to permitting delays for the client which ultimately move the schedule into the quarter one of this year.
Over all these operational issues contributed to a gross profit being approximately $12 million lower in the fourth quarter than quarter three.
Moving on to the next slide slide 10 again as I mentioned in the previous slide are well intervention assets had a very strong utilization for the fourth quarter and the same can be said for the outlook in well intervention for 2013 and beyond.
Q4000 was 100% utilized in the quarter and remains booked solid through 2014.
Based on our latest schedule from the shipyard we now expect the Helix 534 to be placed in the service in Q3 and she is also fully booked through the end of 2014.
On the Northeast side our well intervention vessels average 91% utilization across a variety of well intervention projects during the quarter.
Both vessels now have full schedules for the remainder of the year.
Our charter well intervention vessel at Skandi Constructor is still in schedule to begin work in the middle of the year and the customer interest for this vessel remain strong as we continue to booked for her beyond initial 75 days assign backlog that we have now.
We move on to slide 11.
On the robotics side.
We saw declines in utilization in both vessels and in ROVs vessels mainly due to as we stated previously the normal seasonal declines.
We also had increased costs due to mobilization of the Trencher 1200 under the Grand Canyon as well as mobilizing two of our vessels from the North sea to the Gulf of Mexico which one of those vessels return back to the North Sea after the project during the fourth quarter as well.
Our newly chartered vessel the Grand Canyon was placed into service along with two new work class ROVs during the fourth quarter as we returned another vessel to the Island Pioneer back to the owner after five years of service in our fleet.
In December the Grand Canyon kicked-off 150 day wind farm contract utilizing to 1200 trencher and in 2012 renewable energy accounted for approximately 15% which is about $54 million of our total revenues on the Robotics side.
So we move on to slide 12 on the subsea construction pipelay side.
We had lower than expected utilization on Express due to the customer permitting issues in December resulting in delays that move the road into the first quarter of 2013.
The Caesar continued its accommodations work down in Mexico and with recent schedule delays in December to sell Express is now expected to occur in mid-May and the Caesar remains on schedule for our sale in July.
If you move on to slide 13 I’ll just leave this slide for detailing the vessel utilization for your reference and with that I’ll turn it over to Tony for the oil and gas operations.
Thanks Cliff and good morning.
We recite our normal operating statistics for oil and gas on slides 14 and 15.
However given the closing of the sale of this business on Feb 6th I will leave the information on these slides for your reference and more important note as indicated we close the sale of ERT on February 6th receiving proceeds of 624 million which represents the base sale price of 620 million plus certain closing adjustments.
After estimated tax leakage and transaction expenses we expect net after-tax proceeds of approximately 550 million.
We will continue to benefit from an overriding royalty interest on the Wang well and certain other exploration prospects thus our estimated total pre tax value on the sale of ERT when considering a basket of contingent consideration is closer to 700 million.
Over to you Lloyd.
Thanks Tony.
Turning to slide 17 this slide provides an update on our growth and net debt levels as of the end of the year.
In December the holders of $154 million of our convertible senior notes that we issued in 2005 put their bonds to Helix and we subsequently repurchased them.
This left about $3.5 million of these 2005 convertible notes outstanding that we subsequently called and repurchased in early February.
And as a result we paid off the entire outstanding balance of these 2005 issued convertible senior notes.
Further in conjunction with the sale of our oil and gas business as Tony mentioned in early February we were required under our credit agreement to take 60% of the after-tax proceeds and pay down senior secured debt.
So immediately after the closing of the sale we were paid a total of 318 million of our credit agreement.
We paid off 100% of the outstanding balance of our term loan B which totaled $271 million and paid on our term loan A and revolver with the balance.
And as frame of reference since the second half of 2011 through today we’ve reduced our gross debt levels by $533 million.
At year-end 2012 our net debt-to-book cap ratio was 29% a slight improvement from that 30% at the end of 2011 and significantly better than the 43% at the end of 2010.
Turning over to slide 18.
Our liquidity which is defined as our cash on hand in our borrowing availability under the revolver continues to be at a very robust level.
At year-end liquid totaled 925 million after taking into consideration the 154 million of cash we used for paying off the convertible notes as well as our ongoing CapEx for our major well intervention projects the Q5000 and Helix 534 and also the drilling of the Wang oil well and Canyon 237.
I’ll turn the call back over to Tony to take you through our 2013 outlook.
Tony? Okay turning to slide 20 to 22 slide 20 presents our initial 2013 outlook.
We are forecasting total reported EBITDAX of 300 million plus for 2013 however when backing up this tough impact of our discontinued operations for oil and gas for the month of January and six days of February and pipe lay and then filling into the equation our pro forma full years impact of the two vessels that will be entering the fleet in 2013 the Skandi Constructor and the Helix 534 or pro forma exit rate EBITDA for 2013 is more like 350 million.
We have also broken out revenues by product line with Well Intervention showing a 20% increase in 2013 over 2012.
While robotic revenues are forecast to be slightly lower in 2013 we actually anticipate profitability to actually increase as a result of more favorable mix of trenching and ROVDrill activity.
Our CapEx spending for 2013 is forecasted at 350 million.
Major items represented a $350 number were as follows progress payments and spending in the Q5 currently under construction in Singapore at 140 million modifications and improvements of the H-534 Well Intervention vessel also currently in the shipyard in Singapore at 55 million additional intervention riser system operations for Well Intervention operations of 35 million.
Additional robotics vessels and trenchers of 35 million and then life extension expenditures for the Seawell of 12 million again these are isolated to 2013 only the actual total project costs are higher given the money that has been spent previously in 2012 and beyond.
We wound up the year with $800 million of backlog most of which is in the well intervention business and this provides a very solid foundation for our forecast in 2013 and beyond.
For example in Q4000 is spoken for through 2014 with additional commitments in progress beyond.
The Seawell and Well Enhancer have backlog into the fourth quarter of 2013 and we have strong customer interest beyond.
The Helix 534 is fully booked for 2013 and 2014 once she enters service.
The Skandi Constructor has backlog for 75 plus days in 2013.
So when you look at the well intervention business we are really fully booked for 2013 and the real variable is operational execution.
Canyon our robotics unit continues to expand its technological and market envelope.
For example we continue to develop our world-class trenching technology for example the London Array wind farm project utilizing the Grand Canyon vessel at the T1200 trenchers currently in progress and is one of the biggest trenching progress we’ve ever worked on.
The commercial development of our well drilled technology should accelerate in 2013 for example we are currently engaged on the subsea mining project offshore in Japan.
But stepping back from an overall standpoint to two key variables for 2013 relate to our ability to have both the H-534 and Skandi Constructor successfully enter service as scheduled.
Our outlook assumes the H-534 enter service mid-quarter three and the Gulf of Mexico while the Skandi Constructor entered service in the North Sea mid-year again both vessels have work ready for it so it is a matter of these vessels coming out and going to work.
I’ll skip slides 24 and 25 and leave them for your reference.
And at this time I’ll turn the call back over to Owen for closing remarks.
Thanks Tony.
For the past few years we’ve articulated a plan for renewing the strength and growth of Helix.
First was to restore the balance sheet to manageable levels we reduced net debt of 1.2 billion since 2008.
I’m sorry we’ve reduced net debt to 1.2 billion since 2008 from over 1.8 billion to 582 million at year end 2012.
Our net debt to cap ratio is again below the 30% target that we communicated as being a comfortable level.
The sales of the ERT and the pipelay assets would put us in virtually a no net debt position the sale of ERT is behind us now and the sale of the Express and Caesar following completion of currently contracted work.
Handovers are anticipated to be finalized by midyear with receipt of balance of another 190 million.
Second was to simplify the business model with renewed focus on contracting services specifically in well intervention and robotics where we hold our strongest competitive market positions for deepwater applications.
Third we’ve said we’ll aggressively add assets for the explosively growing non-rig well intervention market as well as in robotics were steady consistent growth is expected.
As a result we’ve added three intervention vessels to our current fleet of three.
This will be double our capacity by 2015.
We’re also adding three new intervention system to our current fleet of five intervention systems.
Our long-term plans are to add additional vessels and systems in well intervention beyond this.
In robotics we’ve added eight work class vehicles and a new trencher in the last year.
Going forward we plan to continue the run rate of about six work class vehicles per year with an ROV drill and a trencher every other year based on the current market outlook that we see.
This could accelerate.
We have also committed two addition – we’ve committed to two additional new build charter vessels coming into the fleet by 2015.
All of this is either done or in progress.
It’s being done at a pace within our resource capacity and balance sheet.
We anticipate being able to fund this growth primarily out of cash flow with very little reliance on that.
Therefore we’ll have the capacity to consider other opportunities.
All of this is being considered and planned with close dialogue with our customer partners.
Going into 2013 we are about a $300 million EBITDA service company and as Tony said with a run rate of about 350 million once all of the transactions are completed.
Given our current outlook on the market and growth plans we anticipate a compounded EBITDA growth rate in excess of 20% annually from just the current plans in the next few years.
We feel this is a conservative plan and one that doesn’t tax our resources or stress our balance sheet.
It’s very important to us that our customers and our investors have confidence that we do what we say we will do.
The company is in good condition great position and at this time we’ll be happy to open it up and take any questions.
Operator?  Thank you Sir.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from the line of Jim Rollyson with Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Jim.
I went by my math after the closing of the MP sale in February it looks like you are actually in a net cash position at the moment.
With that in mind and your kind of eventual plans to look at other new build assets what is the trigger to get you to kind of make that step? Do you risking that Q5000 through backlog and then you have got room for another quote – unquote – “spec vessel”? Because it seems like financially now you are in certainly in a position to be able to start funding your next venture Q5000+ type vessel.
I think you hit on one of them Jim.
We definitely plan to – our plans are to build another vessel.
It’s a matter of just picking the right moment to initiate it announce it.
I think that depends on a couple of factors one you mentioned the Q5000 although we have a high degree of confidence on the Q5000 utilization.
Another one I would like to see us delivered the 534.
I want to make sure that we are not overcommitted to capital projects in shipyards which taxes our human resources to effectively pull the projects off on time and on budget.
So that would be a second trigger.
And then the third is just watching the market.
And I think that sort of argues for an accelerated pace rather than a slower pace because the market outlook that we are seeing is very robust.
And when you initially shopping around for a shipyard for the Q5000 I seem to recall you were kind of looking at deals to maybe build more than one vessel and trying to get a break on the price.
Is that – are you too far past that initial bill point on the Q5000 that if you pull the trigger this year you’d still be able to get a break if you went with the same shipyard? I think the next one that we build will be a little less than the Q5000.
I’d attribute that to a number of things.
I do not know – you’re correct when we went to the shipyards we ran a multiple shipyard process for a two-build slot and got pricing accordingly.
As a result I think our partner in this whole endeavor is Jurong and we’re working well with them.
They are on Board with looking at the next one and they are assisting us in the designing and engineering and moving it forward.
I will say that I think Jurong is a good yard for us – and that what we are building are basically very highly specialized one of a kind type assets.
And Jurong I think is very adept at our – being a customized builder of semi-submersible.
So I think it’s a great match between our aspirations and their capabilities.
Great and last one Tony just on the – your benefits you will get over time from the Wang.
How the report that? Is that just going to comment on the equity income line? We’re going to report that in other income and expense.
Jim so you will see it on that.
And production as I said is expected to start off on April 1st so we should start to see royalties thereafter.
Let me clarify one comment Jim you made about us being in a no net-debt position I think I would be closer to reality once we complete the sales of the Caesar and the Express.
So by mid-year we will be very close to being at a no net debt position.
All right.
Certainly a wonderful accomplishment and congrats guys.
Thanks.
Thanks.
In fact if you look at the slides we actually did a pro forma that is more or less suggests that as well on our debt slide.
And our next question comes from the line of Igor Levi with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning.
So now that you have a clean balance sheet and a very focused business it looks like you are expecting 20% EBITDA growth over the coming years funded out of free cash flow.
So I was wondering what type of growth opportunities you see beyond the existing plans and what kind of growth could you achieve if you fully leverage your balance sheet? That’s a work in progress and we will let you know as soon as we really pin that down but we’ve got a lot of potential.
Right and if you were to order let’s say another vessel at some point in the first half of this year when would you expect it to be realistically delivered? Realistically I think early 2016 would be the next delivery date.
Early 2016? Within your 2013 guidance what kind of utilization rates are you embedding for well intervention in ROVs? Igor for well intervention well really let’s say between 95% and 100% because we have full backlog.
So you always have some down days for the maintenance issues but really again as we suggested in our commentary we have no shortage of work it’s a matter of just execution.
On the robotic side you typically don’t have the visibility on robotics that you do in well intervention.
But we are assuming let’s say around about maybe 75% utilization for our robotics vessels this is kind of what our anticipation in 2013.
Okay.
And how many chartered vessels are you kind of expecting to average? Well we are going to have the four under long-term charter but we do expect to pick up spot vessels as the market dictates.
For example the road drill project for subsea mining that was in offshore Japan right now is being done with the spot market vessel.
So I would say on average we might have two spot market vessels throughout the year on average.
With the four long-term chartered vessels really been the foundation for our fleet there.
Great that’s very helpful.
I will turn it over.
And our next question comes from the line of Joe Gibney with Capital One.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning.
Tony just a question on the underlying annual G&amp;A run rate here I know there are some moving parts having pipe lay move out of the fold have some higher shortage and G&amp;A associated with that.
What is the underlying kind of annual G&amp;A run rate that you are looking at now and I was curious what the core level component of that is? Joe we expect to hold G&amp;A within the 8 to 10% range.
We’re thinking in the first half of the year we’re not really going to see a lot of G&amp;A reduction because we still have a lot of activity associated with our legacy businesses.
For example our pipe lay business is still present and won’t be finished until the Caesar get sold in July.
Corporate is about 50 million of our G&amp;A in total.
I would say going forward we expect to reduce G&amp;A we are going to be at a much more streamlined simpler company to well intervention business.
It is much simpler than the subsea construction business.
But I would say over all we are still going to be in the 8 to 10% quarter and we are going to work hard to reduce our overall corporate SG&amp;A levels.
I would just say that.
But I do not expect us to be any lower than 8% even going forward? Okay helpful.
And just to clarify the ‘13 EBITDA guidance of roughly 300 million you indicated sort of inclusive of this 27 million step from ERT is the Express Caesar contribution also in that roughly $300 million figure? It just wasn’t called out specifically I just want to confirm.
Yes it is.
Yes it is it is.
It’s not very big and by the way the 27 million that’s component of the E&amp;P business also includes the Wang royalty estimates.
Okay.
All right.
Helpful.
Just a vessel specific question just curious that the timing and duration of HP I dry dock you referenced the Seawell life extension I just didn’t know if we should be thinking about downtime and what timing to be associated with that one.
Yes this is Cliff.
The HP dry dock right now is scheduled for September and I think we have got about 55 days scheduled in for it and that’s – our budget reflects that.
And the Seawell we won’t be doing – that won’t be any effect of service or utilization in this year.
Okay helpful.
We will be planning for it this year but it won’t happen this year.
Okay fair enough.
And just wanted to confirm one last thing on the net debt and cash proceeds from pipelay sales Owen I think you reference this I just want to confirm is this roughly 190 million left in cash proceeds from the pipelay sale that you’re expecting to receive is that correct? That’s correct.
And that’s what between the Express and the Caesar and they’ll fund our own – those components will fund on separate dates with the handover of each vessel.
Okay fair enough.
I appreciate it.
I’ll turn it back.
(Operator Instructions) And our next question comes from the line of Michael Marino with Stephens.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Question Owen you mentioned in some of your closing remarks about the committing to two new builds on the robotic side for I guess for long-term vessel charters would those be in addition to kind of the four you’re running now? So the idea is to go from kind four charter boats to six or are those...? I think you’ll see that announced in each year because we have the option of either carrying over older charters or rolling them off and it depends on what the market looks like in that particular year.
Yeah and I’ll add to that we’re going to have four charter vessels now by July I think we pick up the fifth one of the installer and those two boats you’re referring to won’t come until ‘14 and ‘15 and these charters that we have vary in range from three four five years with options.
So our intent and always has been is to play the market when those vessels are ready to come on we can see if we want to see extend the charter options on some of the other vessels and size our fleet up or down accordingly to the market.
But is kind of the idea though that I mean that market is getting a lot better and I mean it’s something you want more potential exposure to? Yeah.
The idea is to keep growing it.
But what I would say we have some protection on the risk side that we can let some of those go if we need to.
But yeah of course the idea is to grow it.
All right.
What’s kind of the general market outlook for that – for the robotics business? On the robotics side for this year it’s pretty flat compared to what we were seeing last year.
So there is a little growth but nothing that’s negligible I guess.
But in ‘14 and ‘15 we see quite a bit of growth on the renewable side of the equation which will require vessels and trenchers.
Okay.
To give just one more data point there our run rate anticipates acquiring six new work-class vehicles each year.
Two of those though would be fleet replacement vehicles as we retire older assets.
So on the fleet of 47 – in the neighborhood of 47 adding each year shows you the growth rate that we sort of anticipate.
Great.
That’s helpful.
On the Q4000 backlog is – should we expect kind of as you work through that backlog to see higher revenue contribution from day rate increases or kind of the day rate is pretty leveled through that backlog? I think through the backlog of this year it’s going to be pretty level because a lot of these are legacy and ongoing service agreements we had with some of our clients.
But as those fall out and we renegotiate new longer-term agreements then those rates are definitely going up.
In order of magnitude how much? As much as we can get but usually probably maybe 10 15%.
Okay.
And one more Tony on the guidance just for clarification does that number includes equity income contribution from Marco Polo and Independence Hub? Yes it does.
Okay thank you As well as the HP one of course.
Right.
And our next question comes from the line of Martin Malloy with Johnson Rice.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
I was wondering could you talk about any opportunities you are seeing out there as far as additional vessels like that the 534 that would be conversion that might help you accelerate as a deployment? We don’t anticipate making any further acquisitions of the older vessels.
I think our experience with the five before is sufficient.
It’s not that easy to buy these old vessels and bring them into modern compliance and up to the standards that we demand of an intervention asset.
I think our focus will be on new highly specialized of area efficient assets going forward.
Having said that though we are – we have covered the market really well and there are a few assets that we could have access to to contract with but it’s not our expectations to have an equity interest in them.
Okay.
And then I’m sorry I missed the impact of the express delay on the 4Q results.
Did you give a dollar amount? Marty I’m going to just off the top of my head sets probably about 3 million.
Okay.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from the line of Travis Bartlett with Simmons.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
Good morning.
Good morning.
First one for you I just wanted to talk as on the well intervention side so long-term of the new well intervention vessels the Q5000 and the additional new build that you mentioned is there any potential out there for Helix to get one of these new build vessels fully committed with the customer under some type of long-term contracts? I mean are you guys seeing any opportunities like this out there? That’s certainly our intent.
And although you can classify these builds are as speculative it’s not without a great deal of dialogue with the operators before we commit.
But it’s not something that’s a signed contract or announceable yet.
Right okay.
And then second one here just looking at the exit rates EBITDA guidance of 350 million and then looking at the pro forma business excluding some of the discontinued operations here.
What kind of run rate revenue are you guys assuming in your exit rate guidance? And then to the extent that you could break is down by Robotics and well intervention I think that would be helpful? Travis we’ll come back to you later on that.
Obviously its higher than the – not remember if we have in the guidance for the full year 2013 because of the contribution we expect from the 534 and the Skandi Constructor.
So we’ll come back with you on that.
Okay.
And then...
We will focus more on the bottom line with respect to that guidance than the top line.
Yeah.
Sure.
Understandable.
Last one here just on the Robotics side the revenue guidance there.
Can you just talk about a little bit your expectations for 2013 and just kind of curious on the revenue declines of about 5% year-over-year what’s kind of driving at there? Well the revenue has declined but the profitability is up slightly and as I mentioned we see in the scheme of things a relatively flat year.
But we do see a big increase in ‘14 and ‘15 coming on the removals entrenching side.
So nothing really significantly driving it down this year.
It’s just that we don’t see and as Tony mentioned earlier one of the issues on the well intervention side we have quite a bit of visibility in long-term contracts that are planned up front on the robotics or canyon side.
It’s almost like the fire truck that we don’t usually get a lot of long-term contracts it’s a lot of sporadic jobs and we short-term lead times on them.
Okay thanks very much guys I will turn it back.
(Operator instructions) And our next question comes from the line of Trey Stolz IBERIA Capital Partners.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys couple of quick questions here.
With the backlog you’ve got on the well intervention side I assume some of that from the Q4 got moved up to the H-534 how should we think about rates I know you assess every quarter but how should we think about rates and a lot of that going forward given the long lead time when you are backlog and what assessor you are having pushing rates up lately? That’s a constant thing just trying to get the rates up and I was just the balance of what the clients are willing to pay against using other methods E I do not see them directly increasing soon but for the new things the new contracts that we’re discussing with clients now for the Q5000 for example and maybe beyond that so they’re certainly reflecting the increase from a demand side and also the ones that’s going to take on the capital side.
So where that’s going to fall exactly I hate to speculate on but we are pushing them up.
Yeah Trey let me just add it if you look at the rates we’re quoting today for our well intervention vessels to where it was two years ago I will just use the term they’re significantly higher on average.
There is a lot of factors that go into the rates whether client is going to use our intervention riser system or their own and there is a lot of factors that go into average rates.
But we look forward and we look at what we’re quoting for the Q5000 I think that the rates we’re talking about are again significantly higher than what we’re seeing today.
And it has to be that way because the capital cost to build the new vessels is significantly higher than it was 10 12 years ago when we built the Q4000.
So I think we look at it from a long-term perspective rates have gone up considerably.
And there is no doubt that’s been helped by higher semi drill rig rates.
And I will jump in and join the party here with one more data point on the macro issue.
If you look at the market as its been developing right now we’re in the infancy stage of the non-rig intervention market.
The assets have been by necessity priced at a discount to the historic methods which is a drill rig.
Today there is discount yet if you look at the efficiency of these assets versus the rig it actually argues that there should be a premium.
So there is definitely a gap between where the intervention assets are priced today relative to the value they contribute relative to a drill rig.
So I think as the market matures and pinning down the timing of that realization is difficult but I think it’s starting to accelerate here lately which is attributing to the recent rate increases because the producers are starting to see the need demand is increasing for this kind of asset in market.
Owen thanks that was my next question I guess was how you view it relative to a deepwater rig day rate.
Actually that’s due to the quicker set up and quicker overall fewer days on the job so it saves the E&amp;P theoretically even with a higher day rate? Yes I think there has been a number of studies done by producers in collaboration with our sales and there is actually at the current day rates there is an efficiency gain of roughly 40% by using one of our assets versus a drill rig which is significant to a producer.
Got you.
And you touched on this a second ago the Q5000 and we’re talking about potential long-term contracts for these new builds is demand for that long-term contract coming from the Gulf of Mexico or is that likely to go elsewhere and if so how might that affect OpEx on a daily basis for a vessel like that? Well I think that’s one of the exciting things about where Helix sits right now is that we are North Sea and Gulf of Mexico centric but the intervention market on a global basis is really starting to perk up.
There has been a longstanding intervention needs down in Brazil and those demands are increasing.
West Africa is opening up that maybe a little slower in developing but it’s definitely there.
So as Helix was moves forward one of the things that we are doing right now is just really educating ourselves in looking at expanding our operations internationally and everything that that entails.
Okay.
Is it – I guess is it off the think that you’d see a similar increase in OpEx operating in a market like West Africa or Brazil versus the Gulf of Mexico? Is there anything that would be different on the well intervention side? Well there’s different regulatory environments in each of these areas which drives are OpEx so – but I’d say order of magnitude OpEx is in more than 10% or 15% different region to region.
Okay got you.
Yeah.
And the pricing will reflect those differences.
And last year you had an offshore or deepwater driller lease intervention riser system any additional interest from drillers in that respect was that kind of one-off situation or is that something to think about for a potential down the road? No I think that’s an area of business development that we are looking at right now and sort of focus on the intervention riser system that we built as a rental is now basically fully booked for this year.
So I think – and there is interest from parties in this kind of – this service being provided and it’s one that we’re exploring in broadening our offering.
All right and one last one.
I know you offsetted little bit more than 900 million in liquidity and with CapEx commitments coming due on the new builds what are your thoughts on tapping the capital markets any kind of comment there? Well Trey again we – our plans are to execute our growth plans within our existing free cash flow and our existing available liquidity.
Now without foreclosing in other options so if we decide to build new vessels and it would require us to go to the capital markets we have the flexibility to do so because of where our balance sheet is today.
But that’s more likely to be inexpensive form of debt than anything else.
By – I guess you mean that you Q6 and Q7 being beyond what’s contemplated with free cash flow currently? I would say the Q7 would be within our cash flow maybe even the Q6 but maybe beyond that.
But I think right now it’s really a hypothetical discussion more than anything else Trey so – I hate to get to granular here in the discussion of how much capital we will require for a hypothetical number of units we may or may not build.
No but that’s helpful and puts us in perspective.
Thank Tony.
Sure.
And that’s it for me.
And we have no further questions on the telephone line at this time.
I will turn the call back to you.
Okay again.
Thanks for joining us today and we very much appreciate your interest and participation and look forward to having you participate on our first quarter 2013 call in April.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Ole Slorer with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
Thank you very much.
Well nice to see you guys having a mean-lean company again.
First question Tony just -- if -- on the exit rate of $350 million this year what would you say that the maintenance CapEx is on that? I mean we have you down for about say that $30 million a quarter or something like that.
Is that the right ballpark? Ole I would say our maintenance CapEx is more like $50 million a year so on continuing ops.
That is the exit rate.
So to say in the $350 million run rate in 2014 you only need $50 million of maintenance CapEx? Yeah.
Very good.
Could you talk a little bit about the equipments that you are taking delivery of in 2014.
It’s sort of waiting for the bigger Q5000 to come into the fleet in the middle of ‘15? I’ll jump in there.
For 2014 I would see us continuing to add in the Robotics realm.
It’s about the same pace that we have here which is about six work-class vehicles a year two for fleet replacement and four for growth.
I don’t know that we would -- we have a trencher already under construction coming in 2014.
I’m not sure that we start the next one at that point but we’re going to look at the market.
Beyond that the ROVDrills have been in high demand.
So I see us adding a ROVDrill every other year.
And we haven't added one in a while.
So probably 2014 sees another ROVDrills added.
Okay.
So in terms of 2014 growth CapEx how should we think about that number? I think it’s way too early to be pegging a number for 2014 until we fully analyze the market and cite just what we have coming now.
Yeah.
The market is looking incredibly strong.
So could you share a little bit about the kind of conversations that you’re having at the moment when it comes to the longer term demand for well servicing and increasingly we’re seeing more and more subsea processing activity requiring different type of Robotics and maintenance inspection.
Q4000 is an important asset and what type of conversations are you having with other oil companies.
Also now you have to address their subsea needs? Well I rather not give into this specific conversations that we’re having but I will sort of put it in context by sort of pointing out the history of the 534 everyone was saying well we bought it on stack and we’re building the Q5000 on stack.
Very little of what we do is done without a lot of dialog with the clients ahead of time.
It takes a lot of client input as to what the specific tasks they are going to be requiring the vessels to do so that we can customize them.
So the -- I’d say that the conversations we’re having with clients is around whether there is specific needs what are the geographical areas we’re targeting and what are the regulatory requirements that we’re going to have to meet.
So with that in mind we have several teams working on several different versions of vessels going forward.
I mean so far our vessels has been heavily centered on the Gulf of Mexico and also breaking now into the North Sea.
But how do you view sort of the global opportunity? Do you think you’ll spread your wings? Do you think you’ll focus on these two markets? I definitely think we’ll spread our wings.
The thing about the intervention market though is that it’s just in its infancy here.
The Gulf of Mexico has a relatively matured deepwater market so as our -- that's true for the North Sea as well.
But I think the future holds really promising.
Well head counts are increasing in Nigeria Angola Ghana.
I don’t think that you can rule out Petrobas’ needs.
That is also a mature market.
But I’d really say that those are the two primary markets that we’re looking at going forward.
Okay.
Thanks Owen.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Owen you mentioned a lot of dialog with producers and kind of new or additional vessel concepts.
Is there any one market that maybe you guys at this point are leaning more towards.
I mean it seems like the Gulf of Mexico you’ve got I guess you will have three vessels in that market upon delivery of the 5 000.
I guess -- so my question is one is that all you want to do for that market for now.
And you’re kind of looking at overseas.
And if so is there a specific market that kind of jumps out at you at this point based on your dialog with producers? Yeah.
It’s significant about -- it's sort of an oversight of the different markets.
The Gulf of Mexico market has been extraordinarily strong recent year-to-year because of the idle iron rule and the increases in the P&amp;A work that’s required in the deep water.
Over the next two to three years that probably tails back off to a normal level.
At the same time the sea intervention production enhancement work increases.
So for the next two or three years I see sort of Gulf of Mexico as being a steady state market.
We have not had enough capacity to handle the demand that exist now.
So adding the Q5000 is a real plus.
How much capacity more it can take is our question to my mind.
But in the North Sea we’re adding another vessel right now but there is also an increasing work scope that requires little more sophisticated kind of vessel.
That’s adventurous to us as well as the West Africa market.
But I would say that the West Africa market is probably a few years from really maturing.
And then you got the Brazilian market that has an existing high demand for vessels like what we supply.
And they are coming out with a market enquiry in the tender this year.
So we do anticipate in participating down there.
Then turning to the Asia Pacific market that’s not one market that’s really because of the geographical extent it's several markets.
We’d actually downsize our presence out there.
I think the work scope that we see developing out there is more individual field related.
And therefore our plan is to service from -- on a campaign basis from the excess capacity that we’re adding in the other regions.
So that gives you sort of an overview.
Yeah.
That’s very helpful.
Shifting gears into kind of the Robotics business you mentioned year-on-year increase despite kind of a bit slower start than you would have expected.
Is -- my question is on kind of the wind farm-related work.
What’s kind of the visibility there and is that one of the big drivers on a year-over-year basis and so what’s it look like kind of this year and what’s it look like into the future? Yeah.
Maybe I can answer that best Owen.
Well this year in ’13 we are seeing a fairly flat year.
It’s still good but there is not a lot of growth increase.
But in ’14 and ’15 we are seeing there is lots of projects that are going to happen in 2014 and 2015.
And hence while we picked up another vessel the Rem Installer and we are also placing order for another trencher of the T1500 that we'll get early next year anticipate in that market as well.
And it’s starting to get some traction in other markets as well besides just the European theater.
For wind farm related work or just in general? Yeah.
How about the -- as it relates to Robotics the outlook on the Gulf of Mexico is that market you guys might make a bigger push to do more work in? Well I don’t know if it’s really the farm has a bigger push.
We’ve always been hearing this is our birthplace in the Robotics market and we’ve been here and are still here.
It’s just after post Macondo had been rather slow here from the construction side but the cycles is turning now.
All the majors have brought rigs back in and drilling and so yeah we see the same and timeframe probably the second half of ’14 and in ’15 there is a lot of projects that are listed to be done on the construction side as well which we will involve our vessels.
So we will probably have a bigger vessel presence back in the Gulf of Mexico than we’ve had in the last two or three years.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
I will turn it back.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Jim.
Good morning.
Congrats on the contracts of the Q5000.
Maybe a couple questions around that Owen.
First of all I know you are not going to probably share the exact rates you are getting on the contract with BP but did you basically hit the target you guys were shooting for in terms of implied rates? Simple answer yeah.
I think we’ve got satisfactory returns.
Okay.
Helpful.
And now that you’ve got this pretty well locked up for good visibility or derisked maybe is a better way to say it.
How do you think about the timing of evaluating and pulling the trigger on your next new builders that’s still trying to figure out what market that’s going to? No.
I think we are pretty clear on what we want to do.
I think it’s a matter of just waiting.
Well we not have announced pool of events to put out right now.
But I don’t think it’s any secret that we do want to build another vessel and we’ve had discussions and we’ve had plenty of time to do a lot of sell searching about what that vessel looks like.
So I don’t think there is any secret.
It’s our intentions that we would like to be in construction of another vessel before the year is out but I have to go and talk to the Board.
Okay.
So that’s over.
The current thinking is still what you have been saying.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
Yeah.
And keep in mind we sort of build the balance sheet up to launch this as our strategy and it’s going to be planned on certain holding according to plan but that’s why we are sitting on the liquidity that we are.
Absolutely.
Makes sense.
So that’s what you were shooting for so that’s excellent.
And last one for me.
Just the new four year contract on the Helix Fast Response System.
Terms there similar to what you had before or did you get any better terms or just give me a little color there? I can probably answer that Owen.
Sure.
It’s a four year commitment that starts in April of this year for going one for four year with an option beyond that.
But it’s an increase in rates over what we had before and so it’s a good thing for us.
It requires just two vessels of Q4000 and HP I are part of that response system.
We will be doing a drill with some of that equipment here in early May as well.
Great.
Thanks you guys.
Thanks.
Good morning.
There is a couple of quick ones for me.
On the Skandi Constructor just trying to understand a little bit in terms of its contribution.
It is doing ROV support work now in any position of vessel.
But then we also have some work being done in intervention riser system and deck modification.
I was just trying to understand timing utilization contributions for this asset so it’s going to be a contributor in 2Q ROV support and then there is some downtime associated with intervention riser system work just trying to clarify that.
Yeah.
The deal with that is we picked the vessel up in April and we got some ROV work that we can use the vessel on for now while we are finishing the build of the IRS 3 system and some of the equipment that goes along with that for the deck handling as you mentioned.
So that stuff will be -- that equipment will be delivered here soon.
And as soon as we finished the ROV work we will commence spend the couple of weeks of the dock and put the IRS system on and it will start our first campaign of geotechnical.
And right now they’ve got 95 days booked for this year starting in June and we got -- the rest of the year is highly likely that we have a contract of that shortly.
In fact we have one with -- the contract that we are going to take into aperture of MD&amp;A for -- they’ve already signed off the contract a lump sum to pay to get us down there.
In fact I think that’s in a 20 something million dollar range.
What they haven’t given us is service orders reach individual well.
We are going to do when we get there.
For those who are coming in short we are working those operationally now.
Okay.
Helpful.
Tony just quick question on the H534.
It looks like the estimated total spend on this vessel was $199.
It was $180 before us.
Anything new there relative to some of the conversion work that is picking that number higher? Yeah.
It is $190 now.
Owen you want to talk little bit about why the cost drifted up $10 million since our last estimate.
I think there are two primary reasons.
One is additional vessel and as we got into it instead of just putting our what you might call band aid fixes on some of the things that needed to be refurbished.
We took these steps to go ahead and dig a little deeper and do a little more root cause analysis and try and improve the operability of the vessel down the road.
Then on top of that the second reason was most of the clients that we work for are of significance if not major operator and they have a continuos service requirement.
And we’ve elected to put our full crews on board early so that they are familiar with the machinery.
We can do a lot of training and then when the vessel hits the ground running when it gets to the Gulf it will have experienced crews all with continuos service experience on board.
That was sort of a late call that we made and it did add to the cost of the overall project.
Okay.
Makes sense.
And last one for me.
Tony if you can maybe give a little help in terms of how we should think about within your revenue splits elimination line items? It’s $47 million for the year and your guidance of $21 million this quarter.
How should we sort of flow that through expectations as we work our way towards this exit rate you come out with the year? Yeah.
The eliminations rate was a bit higher in Q1 because we still had the oil and gas business for part of the year that was a factor.
But in terms of trying to sort out and look out as to how the $41 million develops I would say pretty evenly throughout the rest of the year.
Pretty evenly.
Okay.
I appreciate gentlemen.
I will turn it back.
Good morning.
Hey Marty.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Could you talk a little bit maybe about the pricing with what we can think about for the next couple of years about your visibility with these contracts for the well and trencher vessels? Hey Marty I will continue to say that the pricing in our backlog is higher than the pricing historically.
For example the Q4000 just re-upped the contract in a multiyear basis for the major customer here in Gulf of Mexico and the rates in that contractor are higher than rates we’ve been realized with the customers historically.
The rates on Q5000 for example are higher than the rates were getting on the Q4 so on and so forth.
So generally speaking without getting into too much specific so I’d say our backlog has higher rates than our historical rates.
Okay.
And then could you talk about dry docking schedule? Any big dry docking we should be aware for the remainder of the year? Not for this year we don’t have… HP1 Right.
We had HPI in September of this year but from the Well Intervention vessels we don’t have any schedule for this year.
Then next what we have is the well enhancer for next year.
Okay.
And that -- the life extension I think you prefer do it before as what’s going on there is that… That’s on the Seawell.
I’m sorry the Seawell.
Okay.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Hi guys.
Good morning.
Good morning.
First I just wanted to revisit the contract with BP for the Q5000.
So I wanted to ask guys whether or not you’re in discussion with multiple operators for the Q5000 contract or was it just BP.
And what I’m getting at here is just kind of curious as to what the potential is for contract on the next new build vessel assuming that you go ahead and place the order? I have to say that there were multiple conversations going but there is a lot of interest in the Q4000.
A lot of people would like to get some time on the Q4000.
So there are multiple people that were -- and rest of them in Q5000.
We’re really pleased with the relationship that we’ve got building with BP.
And so far that turned out to be a great partner really good to talk with.
Going forward I think what I’d like to see is just a repetitive pattern here where we are building on the basis of multiple dialogues with clients.
We’ll start building our vessels.
After we start construction of the vessels we’ll move on to formalizing a contract and then at that point we’ll look at the follow-on vessel.
So that’s why earlier I said we have multiple design.
They are the basically the same building on the experience and what we’ve learnt with Q4000.
But we do have some twist to them depending on what the client specific needs are and of course the geographic and regulatory environment we have to build to.
So that’s -- hopefully that’s going to become a repetitive pattern for us.
Yeah.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
Again secondly here just shifting to backlog looks like backlog increased to $1.6 billion after adjusting for the Q4000 and Q5000 contracts.
So I’m assuming that the majority of the backlog increase was attributable to the BP contract.
But just kind of wondering if you can share what happened to the backlog sequentially if you exclude backlogs under the BP contracts and if you have those numbers handy or not? Let me answer that.
First of all the backlog that we’re stating is really a current backlog number.
We thought it would be helpful to the market to know what the backlog number was after the BP contract and after two extensions on the Q5000 with customers we have for the Q4000 I mean here in Gulf of Mexico.
So it really consists of three different contracts that were major multi-year contracts.
Our backlog we stated for contract in services last quarter was $800 million.
I believe the number and it’s going to be in our 10-Q for March 31 <sup> </sup>precisely is around $950 million more or less.
So hopefully that’s helps you.
Yeah.
That’s that’s good.
So backlog excluding the Q4000 Q5000 contracts that were in the press release increased from the $800 million to roughly $950 million? Yeah.
Approximately yes.
Okay.
Perfect.
And then last one here just digging into your guidance Well Intervention revenue guidance increased by $30 million compared to your prior guidance.
Is there any color that you can offer here as to what’s leading to the increase in revenue guidance for Well Intervention.
Are there any variances or timing of the vessel deliveries or are there factors that we should be thinking about here? Yeah.
Couple of things.
Travis number one quarter one we had greater utilization and we modeled.
So we never modeled 100% utilization because you always figure you have some downtime.
So we are off to a good start.
Last quarter our backlog for the Skandi Constructor assumed only 75 days and we indicated today we have 95 days for the Skandi Constructor plus the works it’s doing today.
Now the works it’s doing today the wind farm ROV support has very little profit contribution but there are revenues associated with it.
So those are the primary variables from last update.
Okay.
That’s very helpful.
Thank you.
I’ll turn it back.
Yeah.
Hi guys.
Just curious on this new vessel you plan to build by the end of the year is it more than likely this is another semi sub than a Q6 so to speak? I don’t want to tip our hat too much but I think it’s pretty obvious.
We are firmly committed to the high end of the intervention market.
And back in the late 90s when we were looking at the Q4000 I think we made the decision back then that we are firm believers that semi submersible motions are the way to go in the deepwater intervention.
So unless there is something an extraordinary twist occurs it would likely be a semi submersible.
Okay.
The Helix 534 I don’t believe you’ve named the customers.
Can you say at least how many different customers have already booked work for it in the Gulf? Reminder this year we only got two and going forward in the next year I think we’ve got there other customers for us but it’s still enough.
It’s booked up.
Soon as you get to the year it goes to work with the rest of the year and it’s booked up for the next three years quite nicely not 100% but we are getting there.
Okay.
And then lastly on the HP I dry dock I think I heard September timeframe about how long do you expected to be in dry docks? 60 days.
Okay.
And then return back to service at the original field site? Correct.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
On the sea well life extension project what’s the timing of that in terms of down days what should we kind of figure in our models? Well we haven’t budgeted figure exact.
Sorry go ahead Owen.
No I was just going to say -- I know it’s very early in the planning we are in the engineering now.
So I was going to ask you Cliff if you had a feel for the actual dry dock period or not yet? Yeah.
We don’t.
Yeah.
We got a team in Aberdeen that are working on the life extension and looking at long lead items we need to order for it now.
So we don’t really now how long that’s going to be but it’s going to be a pretty substantial dry dock with major quite engine changes and things like that.
So I would expect it to be probably 60 plus days or so and we will time it through the worst part of the North Sea winter timeframe December January February timing.
Okay.
So it’s going to be most of the… It does fall concurrent with the regularly scheduled dry dock period for the sea well.
Right.
That’s what’s driving it.
As we have to go to dry dock anyway and we offer probably best case a month or something like that.
So we are going to go ahead and do this extension while we are in there probably that will lengthen the time that we are in there and the cost as well but then we should be able to get decades more out of it and the reason we are excited to do it is it’s a pretty unique and rare asset that’s got a really good reputation in the North Sea and its built back when the holes were built really well and thick iron on it and is one of the one vessel that will have diving capability on it.
So we think it still has a long life left in the North Sea.
But it’s mostly a 14 event from a -- or I guess what I am trying to figure out in the guidance for the exit rate guidance you gave its in that 350 number you assume and it’s a little downtime in the sea well and then may be budget more in ’14 in the first part of ’14.
No I don’t think that’s actually correct.
The net scheduled dry dock for the sea well is actually at the beginning of 2015 and that will be the time period we are targeting for the extension dry dock period.
We are thinking right now going in December ’14 and then December and January.
Okay.
Okay.
Perfect.
Thanks for the clarification.
Okay.
Well with that I would just say thanks to everybody for calling in and we will talk to you next quarter.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Helix Energy Solutions Group review of the second quarter’s 2013 results.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Afterwards we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this conference is being recorded Tuesday July 23 2013.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Director of Investor Relations Mr.
Terrence Jamerson.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
Joining me today is Owen Kratz our CEO; Tony Tripodo our CFO; Cliff Chamblee Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; Alisa Johnson our General Counsel; and Erik Staffeldt our Finance and Treasury Director.
Hopefully you all have had an opportunity to review our press release and the related slide presentation released yesterday evening.
If you do not have a copy of these materials both can be accessed through our website at <a href="http://www.helixesg.com" rel="nofollow">www.helixesg.com</a> under the For the Investors section.
The press release can be accessed under the Press Release’s tab and the slide presentation can be accessed by clicking on today’s webcast icon.
Before we begin our prepared remarks Alisa Johnson will make a statement regarding forward-looking information.
During this conference call we anticipate making certain projections and forward-looking statements based on our current expectations.
All statements in this conference call or in the associated presentation other than statements of historical facts are forward-looking statements and are made under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Our actual future results may differ materially from our projections and forward-looking statements due to a number and variety of factors including those set forth in our slide two and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2012.
Also during this call certain non-GAAP financial disclosures may be made.
In accordance with SEC rules the final slides of our presentation materials provide a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP measures to comparable GAAP financial measures.
The reconciliation along with this presentation the earnings press release our Annual Report and a replay of this broadcast are available on our website.
Owen.
Good morning everyone.
We’ll start by going straight to slide five which is the high level summary of first quarter results.
Quarter two’s revenues increased 18% from the first quarter at $232 million up from $197 million in Q1.
Operating earnings followed suit.
EPS for quarter two amounted to $0.26 while EBITDA for the second quarter amounted to $75 million up from the $42 million we reported in Q1 on a continuing opps basis.
Moving to slide six our robotics business represented the single biggest contribution to our quarter-over-quarter improvement.
Coming off a seasonally weak Q1 robotics revenues increased 38% in Q2 as vessel utilization improved to 98%.
The Subsea Construction business also had a nice contribution to our improved Q2 results of the Express and Caesar combined at 95% utilization during the quarter as they work to complete their existing backlog prior to being sold.
We closed the sale of the Caesar in June and the Express just last week.
While the well intervention fleet enjoyed relatively high utilization at 93% its revenues declined slightly coming off a Q1 in which the fleet had 100% utilization.
The Skandi Constuctor entered the fleet in Q2 by working ROV support mode.
On to slide seven from a balance sheet perspective our cash and liquidity levels remain very strong.
Cash stood at $514 million at quarter end after paying down $150 million of debt during the quarter with liquidity levels of approximately $1.1 billion.
We entered into a new credit facility in June which positions us very nicely financially to continue to execute our growth plans; a bit more on this later.
I’ll now turn the call over to Cliff for an in-depth discussion of our contracting service results.
Okay thanks Owen.
Good morning.
As you can see from the summaries and also the contracting service we had quite a turnaround in Q2 versus last quarter where the seasonality of the robotics business hampers.
As Owen stated this quarter our robotics business posted a strong quarter-over-quarter improvement.
We continue to have a strong utilization of well intervention vessel and our pipeline vessels remain working up until both sales were completed.
More on this business unit in the following slides.
Before I move on I want to also point out a nice gain in revenue and profit in the production facilities which we are benefiting from a combination of; number one an increase in revenues under the new HP I contract or processing and production for deepsea (ph) and number two the increase in quarterly HFRS fees effective April 1 of this year as a result of our new four year agreement.
Moving on to slide 10 in the Gulf the Q4000 utilization was down at 86% primarily due to required schedule inspection of vessel by the U.S.
Coast Guard.
This ends a consecutive streak of three quarters with full utilization.
Towards the end of the second quarter IRS II went back on hire and will remain for the rest of the year.
As for the 534 we continue our conversion efforts on this vessel over in Singapore and based on our last work scope we now expect her to begin work in the Gulf late in Q4.
Over to the North Sea the Skandi Constructor entered the fleet in the second quarter where we saw 95% across all three vessels during the quarter.
We originally expected to mobilize the seal on the Skandi and perform the necessary modifications in June but due to vendor delays she is currently dockside and we are having the work performed this month.
Once completed the Skandi Constructor as well as the both the Seawell and the Well Enhancer are fully booked for the remainder of 2013.
We’ll move on to slide 11 on robotics.
With vessel utilization being the primary driver of this business our chartered vessel utilization improved to 98% in Q2 up 29% over Q1’s utilization on 69%.
These figures which as you may recall sat idle for 75 days in the first quarter.
It achieved near full utilization on the ROV drill project in the North Sea during the second quarter.
The rest of our long term chartered fleet also had strong utilization where we also managed to work five additional spot vessels rightly through the quarter.
With the contract extension in India on the Olympic Canyon that allows us to keep a long-term charter vessel in the region over the next year and a half also not exactly a Q2 event but in July we just take delivery of the Rem Installer where she immediately went to work at the North Sea on a combinations project.
Moving on to slide 12 on oru sub sea construction business with the closing of the sales of the Caesar and Express that only leaves us with the [spoolbase] (ph) facility which we have now entered into an agreement to sell to the same buyer for these pipelay assets.
The deal’s expected to close in January 2014.
Moving on to slide 13 I'll leave this slide because of the vessel utilization for your reference and with that I'll turn it over to Eric on our key balance sheet metrics.
Thanks Cliff.
Good morning.
Please turn to slide 15.
Slide 15 provides an illustration of our debt maturity profile expecting the retirement of high yield notes with the proceeds of the term loan completed yesterday.
Moving on to slide 16 slide 16 provides an update on our gross and net debt levels historically and at June 30.
After the sale of the Express last week on a current snapshot basis we are roughly in a zero net debt position.
As a frame of reference since the end of 2008 we had reduced our gross debt levels by over 1.5 billion and our net debt position by 1.8 billion.
At quarter end our net debt to book capitalization ratio was down to a very conservative 2%.
Tony.
Thank you Eric.
Slide 18 represents our updated 2013 outlook.
We call it update although the numbers are remarkably the same as last quarter.
We continue to forecast total EBITDAX at approximately $300 million for 2013.
Our forecast remains intact at $300 million despite the delay in putting the H534 into service.
The H534 as Owen mentioned remains in Singapore undergoing refurbishment and modifications taking longer than expected due to an increased amount of work to make sure the vessel is in the best possible condition.
The 534 is now set to transit to the Gulf of Mexico in late August to go to work late in Q4.
Fortunately underlying strength in our well intervention business for the existing fleet is able to offset the delay in putting the 534 into work.
Backing out the stub impact of our divested operations both oil and gas and pipelay and throwing into the equation a full years impact for the two vessels that entered the fleet in 2013 the Skandi Constructor and the Helix 534 our expected pro forma exit rate EBITDA for 2013 is more like $350 million.
Year-over-year for ongoing operations we’re forecasting a revenue growth of 27% this year.
Total CapEx spending remains the same at $365 million.
Let me detail the major items for your reference.
We’re going to spend $135 million this year for the Q5000 which is currently under construction in Singapore.
Modifications and refurbishment of the 534 which is still in Singapore is expected to be $80 million this year.
Building new intervention riser systems for well intervention operations in new vessels is $64 million and additional Robotics vessels and trenchers at $40 million.
We still expect to spend $11 million this year for Seawell life extension and the dry-dock to the HP I which is expected to go dry-dock October 1 is $20mm.
Backlog is up from March 31.
At March 31 we announced a record backlog at $1.6 billion and 90 days later we’re up even beyond that to $1.8 billion.
Most of that backlog relates to the well intervention business and we have a solid foundation to support our business for years to come.
For example the Q4000 was spoken for through 2015 with additional commitments in progress beyond.
The Seawell and well enhancer now fully booked for 2013 and 2014 with backlog starting to build for 2015.
The H534 is fully booked through 2014 and we’re throwing a backlog into 2016 and the Skandi Constructor is now fully committed for the remainder of 2013.
I’m going to skip slides 22 and 23 leave them for your reference and turn the call back over to Owen for closing remarks.
Thanks Tony.
Well things are going pretty well.
The transformation of the company is now complete.
We’ve transitioned from a complex business model burdened with high debt into a simplified business model and then strong growth niches with well intervention and robotic with a very strong balance sheet.
Our financial reporting this quarter is starting to reflect this simplification.
By Q4 the financials should easily reflect the business we have now.
That’s why we’ve included guidance to the exit EBITDA rate of $350 million in order to provide some visibility beyond the last of the noise.
From here on we expect to report clear growth.
The Skandi Constructor receives its intervention system this quarter and starts its roll in intervention; the H 534 will go into service in Q4.
Next year we’ll also see our next new Trenchers and the new build Grand Canyon 2 go into service.
The Q5 will be delivered in early 2015 and it’s our intentions to begin the construction of the next Q class somewhere in the near future.
Additional assets for growth will be added as the market dictates and our balance sheet allows.
Our focus is on building our capabilities for delivering high quality technically sound assets at commercial costs so stay tuned there’s a lot to come.
At this time we’ll end the call and we’ll open it up for questions.
(Operator Instructions).
The first question comes from the line of Jim Rollyson with Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Jim.
Owen you guys mentioned your bid in the Q4000 all the way into ’18.
Can you maybe talk about a couple things on that front one being just how pricing looks out that far relative to what you are getting today.
And maybe stepping back from that your thoughts as you look forward there is a lot of discussion about all the new gen semi submersible coming into the market over the next few years and maybe some of the pressure that puts on the older semis and just the thoughts on those possibly coming into the market and competing with you down the road? That’s a lot of questions.
Let me tackle the first one the rates in fact Cliff can probably speak to the rates first but we do expect rates to go up in the future as bill costs for any new assets continues to rise.
Yes some of this backlog we’ve had is older contract master agreements.
So we are increasing the rates as those expire.
We are increasing the rates gently I guess so the market will accept them and because its further out in time it well obviously increases on cost and the market dictates us to do.
I think your question was are we seeing any pressure from the older rigs coming in in the well intervention market and at this point we are seeing the clients wanting the use of rigs to do drilling do productive drilling and expand their portfolio and use it in the well intervention assets strictly for what they are designed for.
Right.
And I was thinking more down the road just do you think that becomes a concern at some point.
It seems like you are locking things up always out now and that keeps getting deeper so… Yes I’ll jump back in Jim.
Everything’s a concern to me.
But to be practical about it I think some of the people might have seen what we are doing with the 534 and therefore you start thinking well maybe other older rigs can now be put into the same service.
We’ve looked for a long long time and looked at the concept of using older rigs.
Our decision was to go with new-builds rather than the old rigs and the primary reason is we picked up the 534 because of the ability to get it to market faster than a new rig but our preference by far is for a newer rig due to the efficiencies involved.
Even though you take an older rig it’s still a drilling rig and there are a lot of dissimilarities between a drilling rig and what we build as a new generation intervention vessel and you don’t get the same efficiencies out of an old drill ship but I think the 534 is going to serve its – it has a good market niche facing it primarily well P&amp;A and that’s where we intend to use it.
Okay and then just one final for Tony maybe.
SG&amp;A came down nicely Tony in the second quarter maybe what your thoughts are on a run rate going forward post all the pipelay asset sales? I expect Q2 the future quarters to look similar to Q2 absent any extraordinary items and trend downward.
Okay.
Thank you guys.
Hi guys.
Good morning.
Good morning Travis.
I’ll start by saying congratulations on the quarter and completing the sale of the pipelay vessels.
Speaking with the Subsea construction here just thinking about the business excluding these vessels.
Can you talk about what we should be expecting in terms of margin impact looking at the pro forma business? I’m assuming these vessels were dilutive to margins so maybe if you could help us in terms of the margin benefits going forward that would be helpful.
You are talking about overall margins for Helix absent Subsea construction? Correct.
Okay Travis I’ll just give a pretty generic longer-term answer to your question.
Generally speaking our margins should lift as a total company without Subsea Construction.
So just generally speaking Subsea Construction over the years has had lower margins in both robotics and well intervention.
That being said there have been a few quarters here and there where Subsea Constructions put out pretty nice margins.
For example in Q2 Subsea Construction actually contributed very nice margins but if you just look at it over the long term our margins as a total company will lift up without Subsea Construction.
Right okay.
I might add a little to that answer because I think its not all about margins when you are looking at eliminating shifting the business model.
The business model now is great.
The reason Subsea Construction is so lumpy is you can see what’s happening with some of our competitors is that its – that market is highly dependent on performance and by the elimination of Subsea Construction which is focusing on well ops and Canyon we greatly de-risk the business model from that kind of lumpiness.
Right.
Understood and that’s helpful.
And secondly just shifting gears here towards robotics it looks like you guys modestly increased the robotics revenue guidance and it seems like your guidance implies a pretty significant ramp in the second half of 2013 revenue generation.
So my question is how should we think about this revenue being split between Q3 Q4 and then in terms of the drivers.
I mean what are the big of the guidance revision there? Okay.
Well we have another vessel in the fleet the Rem Installer so that in itself increases our ability to put out top line revenues.
But we expect in a much stronger second half Travis for robotics over the first quarter.
In fact we expect a gradual increase in revenues as the year rolls out.
So we don’t have the kind of visibility in robotics that we have for well intervention but just based on what’s the opportunities are out there our expectation is that the third quarter will be somewhat better than the second quarter and fourth quarter will be somewhat better than the third quarter.
Yes typically the first quarter is always our slowest quarter for utilization of vessels because it’s bad weather in the North Sea its bad weather in the Gulf of Mexico and so to speak and people don’t want to start the projects till April/May timeframe and so second and third quarter typically are the busiest seasons.
That being said also a lot of the stuff that was planned for the third quarter gets pushed back into the fourth quarter.
So the second and third are the busiest fourth is next busiest first is historically our slowest quarter.
Right okay.
Fair enough and then last one I had here just on the production facilities.
It looks like you guys actually had a pretty nice improvement sequentially during the quarter in what has otherwise been a fairly static business.
Can you just elaborate a bit on what drove the sequential improvement there and then is that maybe something we should expect going forward? Yes Travis sure.
First of all as Cliff mentioned in his commentary we re-upped the Helix Fast Response System contract with the Consortium of Operators and it was re-upped at a higher rate so that was one item.
The second item when we sold our E&amp;P business the buyer entered into a somewhat different arrangement with the Helix Producer I that was based in part of a fixed fee and a part on volume and the volume flown through the HP 1 is exceeding what our expectations were.
So it’s just as simple as those two reasons.
Right okay.
That’s a great answer and I’ll turn it back.
Good morning.
More of a bigger picture question and longer-term question.
Where do you see the company in five to ten years and with the cleaned-up balance sheet and a focused business plan now do you think that may be down the road that you’ll potentially could become a takeover candidate? Well I’ll take the last part first.
As part of the takeover candidate I really don’t worry about the things that we can’t control so I don’t really think a whole lot about that.
The other part I’ll live in the future I lived about five years out.
I can’t say that I’ll actually live ten years out but five years from now I see continued adding to our Q fleet of intervention vessels.
I see continuing that robotics basically it’s just a repetition of what we are starting here and I can see easily doubling in the next five years.
Okay.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Tony I was wondering if you could help me just to make sure I’m understanding the guidance correctly but you are guiding to $300 million of EBITDA this year.
You’ve done roughly half of that to date but you lose the Subsea for the construction vessels; the HP I goes into dry-dock.
Is the difference or you’re making that up in the back half with the Skandi and continued improvement in the robotics business? Am I thinking about that right? Absolutely right that’s it in a nutshell Michael.
Again Subsea contributed kind of nicely to Q2 we lose that but we picked up incremental capacity with the Skandi and robotics is forecasted to have a much stronger second half than first half so… Yes and the 534 now is not expected to come and contribute till late in Q4.
So there is a little bit of contribution with that but not much.
So then the delta between the exit rate is really the 534 and maybe a little bit from the Skandi? Yes full year of the Skandi a full year of the 534.
Additional capacity with robotics and then if you subtract Subsea Construction contributed this year and a little stub we had for ERT but those two well intervention assets are significant contributors in terms of EBITDA so… Okay and how much or how long is the HP I in dry dock? I’m just trying to understand.
Our current schedule is anywhere between 45 and 60 days.
It all depends on when she gets lifted up out of the water and what we see but our current schedule has her out for 45 to 60.
Okay starting in October is that what you said? Starting on October 1.
What’s not in that rate though is the new Trenchers and the Grand Canyon 2.
Yes.
Okay so that’s – kind of there’s a follow-up question.
Just to clarify because I think Owen brings up a very good point.
This is not a 2014 forecast.
What it is is what 2013 would have looked like if we weren’t in Subsea Construction we weren’t in oil and gas and we had the 534 and the Skandi in for a full year.
Okay and looking out into ‘14 it’s growth in the robotics business that we should think about and with that in mind the five spot vessels that you guys are running right now I think its towards the high end of what you’ve done historically.
Maybe could you talk about what you see for that business looking out past six months? I mean I know visibility is a little bit limited generally speaking but if you could just kind of since Owen you live out in the future you could maybe help us with that.
We have the long-term vessels and we know what those are spot vessels or vessel of opportunities or just that and they come along as we can but that’s a pretty average year.
I mean it depend on the market a little bit.
We expect the gulf to be bigger next year as well as the North Sea so we expect that or more from the vessels of opportunities.
As Tony mentioned or we mentioned we also added the Rem Installer the payment issues so we’ll have that whole of next year.
So we’ll have all those vessels next year as well as we’ll have a partial year on the Trencher and late in the year we get the Grand Canyon 2 that will come into play as well.
But I’m not sure if that’s the linkage aimed at October or so next year.
Okay great.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Congratulations on the quarter.
Thanks Marty.
Could you maybe talk about the opportunity for long-term contracts for well intervention vessels and similar to the BP type contract.
What that potential looks like out there as you look out to next year or two? Yes this is Owen.
It’s sort of a complicated question but if you go to the bottom line I think there is probably one two three four – four or five operators who are not in the position right now of offering that kind of a contract but will in the not too distant future.
And vessel-wise there’s the market enquiry out from Petrobras right now looking for multiple vessels.
There is probably multiple vessel opportunities in West Africa.
So I think the market is more than ripe for multiple additions.
Okay.
And then I don’t know if it’s too early for you to give us this information but in terms of 2014 could you help us with any dry dockings that you expect next year? Yes we’ve got a few dry-docking next.
We got the sea well going and at the end of the year they will be in through back end ‘14 and ’15 as well beyond the 100 or 120 days or so.
Let me see what else we’ve got there.
Well got one for the road and to enter for ‘14 as well and I believe that’s it.
Okay.
You said the sea well was 120 days? Yes right now it’s scheduled to start in December ‘14 so I mean part for ‘14 and ‘15.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks for joining us today.
I very much appreciate your interest and participation and look forward to having you participate on our third quarter 2013 call in October.
Thank you.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Helix Energy Solutions Group Review of Q3 2013 Results Conference Call.
(Operator instructions.) As a reminder this conference is being recorded Tuesday October 22 2013.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Terrence Jamerson Director of Finance and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us this morning.
Joining me today is Owen Kratz our CEO; Tony Tripodo our CFO; Cliff Chamblee Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; Alisa Johnson our General Counsel; and Erik Staffeldt our Finance and Treasury Director.
Hopefully you all have had an opportunity to review our press release and related slide presentation released last night.
If you do not have a copy of these materials both can be accessed through the Investor Relations page on our website at <a href="http://www.helixesg.com" rel="nofollow"><u>www.helixesg.com</u></a>.
The press release can be accessed under the “Press Releases” tab and the slide presentation can be accessed by clicking on today’s webcast icon.
Before we begin our prepared remarks Alisa Johnson will make a statement regarding forward-looking information.
During this call we anticipate making certain projections and forward-looking statements based upon our current expectations.
All statements made during this conference call or in the associated (inaudible) other than statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements and are made under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Our actual future results may differ materially from our projections and forward-looking statements due to a number and variety of factors including those set forth in our Slide 2 and in our Annual Report on Form 10(k) for the year ended December 31 2012.
Also during this call certain non-GAAP financial disclosures may be made.
In accordance with SEC rules the final slide of our presentation materials provide a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP measures to comparable GAAP financial measures.
The reconciliation along with this presentation the earnings press release our Annual Report and a replay of this broadcast are available on our website.
Owen? Thanks Alisa.
Good morning everyone.
We’re going to start on Slide 5 of the presentation which is a high-level summary of Q3 results.
When adjusting for the impact of the contribution from the pipe lay asset which has since been sold Q3 revenues increased 10% from Q2.
The introduction of the <i>Skandi Constructor</i> into the Well Intervention fleet had the most significant impact while Robotics’ revenues increased slightly as well.
While reported EBITDA went down from quarter to quarter some $4 million again when adjusting for the contribution for the pipe lay assets in Q2 EBITDA with the way Helix is computed today actually increased sequentially some $11 million in Q3.
Over to Slide 6 our reported earnings per share of $0.42 included two nonrecurring items – a gain from the sale of the <i>Express</i> which occurred in mid-July of $15.6 million and a loss on the early redemption of the remaining $275.0 million of senior unsecured notes of $8.6 million pre-tax.
Combined on an after-tax basis these two items amounted to $0.04 per share; thus without these two items our reported EPS of $0.42 per share would have been $0.38 per share.
Our Robotics business realized 98% utilization on our long-term chartered vessel fleet producing our best quarter of the year for this business segment.
However Q3 is normally a seasonally active quarter for this business due to our exposure to the North Sea.
While the Well Intervention fleet saw fleet utilization slip to 84% in Q3 this was entirely due to the <i>Skandi Constructor</i> being off hire for most of the quarter while being fitted for its well intervention equipment.
She went into Well Intervention mode in early September and we’re pleased so far with her operating performance.
With the sale of <i>The Express</i> in mid-July for the most part Q3’s results essentially reflect the business Helix has transformed into.
On to Slide 7 from a balance sheet perspective our cash and liquidity levels remain very strong.
Cash stood at $480 million with liquidity levels remaining strong at approximately $1.1 billion.
We made two major shipyard payments during Q3 - $a 58 million progress payment for the <i>Q5000 </i>and the $69 million down payment for the recently announced <i>Q7000</i>.
With the redemption of the remaining 9.5% senior unsecured notes in July our net debt capital structure has now been transformed to a much lower cost profile.
I’ll now turn the call over to Cliff for an in-depth discussion of our Contracting Services results.
Okay thanks Owen.
Good morning everyone.
In looking at the summary results for Contracting Services we see that the revenues including subsea construction were up $17 million or 8% in Q3 compared to Q2.
The $4 million of revenues in subsea construction was for remaining work of (Inaudible) <i>Express</i> pipeline vessel before being sold in the middle of July.
Both revenues and profits remained roughly the same in the production facilities while overall gross profit margins in the Contracting Services increased to their highest levels of the year primarily due to the strong utilization of the charter vessel fleet in Robotics and now having three vessels in the North Sea performing well intervention work.
We move on to Slide 10 for a well ops review.
In the Gulf of Mexico we achieved 100% utilization of the <i>Q4000</i> for the quarter.
Our spare Intervention Riser System IRS no.
2 remained on hire to a client in standby rates throughout the quarter and we expect the system to go on hire at full operating rates sometime in December of this year.
As for the latest on the <i>534</i> she began transit in mid-September and is expected to arrive in the Gulf in November and if all goes well we hope to put it to work in late December.
Over the North Sea we achieved 97% utilization in the <i>Seawell</i> and 100% for the <i>Well Enhancer.
</i> The <i>Skandi Constructor</i> as you’ll recall was (inaudible) at the beginning of Q2 and she initially went to work as a support vessel on our wind farm project.
At the end of Q2 we brought the vessel dockside to undergo upgrades and installation of the well intervention equipment for approximately two months.
That’s the reason for the decrease in utilization of the overall well intervention fleet this quarter versus last quarter.
However as Owen has stated in the executive summary I’m glad to report that the <i>Skandi</i> was back on hire on September 1<sup>st</sup> where she continues to successfully perform her first contracted well intervention backlog an approximately 60-day campaign in the North Sea.
Moving on to the Robotics slide for the second straight quarter <i>Canyon </i>achieved 98% utilization of our chartered vessel fleet in this business.
Utilization of our ROVs and trenchers was up 8% quarter-over-quarter as well.
The <i>REM Installer</i> our newest charter vessel entered the fleet in July where she continues to work on an accommodations project.
We performed approximately 150 days of trenching work in the quarter all in North Sea utilizing three of our four trenchers.
We also completed a ROVDrill campaign in the North Sea while transiting to West Africa at the end of the quarter to commence another ROVDrill campaign late in Q4.
Our <i>Olympic Canyon</i> vessel remains in India on a long-term RLB services contract.
Thus far the quarter has been our strongest quarter for Robotics both in terms of gross profit and wells margins.
Moving on to Slide 12 basically I’ll leave this slide detailing the vessel utilization for your reference and with that I’ll turn the presentation over to Erik.
Thanks Cliff and good morning.
Please turn to Slide 14.
Slide 14 provides an illustration of our debt maturity profile at September 30<sup>th</sup>.
Previously disclosed during Q3 we retired the high-yield notes with proceeds from the term loan significantly decreasing the cost profile of our capital debt structure.
Debt reductions during the quarter reflected quarterly payments of the term loan and the semi-annual payments for the MARAD debt.
Moving on Slide 15 provides an update on our gross and net debt levels historically end at September 30<sup>th</sup>.
We continue to maintain a strong liquidity position with approximately $1.1 billion of liquidity.
Our net debt levels increased from Q2 primarily as a result of the <i>Q7000</i> shipyard payment previously disclosed.
Tony? Yes moving on to Slide 17 which reflects our updated 2013 outlook.
We adjusted our outlook assuming a late December in-service date for the <i>H534</i> resulting in very little contribution from this vessel for 2013.
Although the vessel is expected to arrive in the Gulf of Mexico in early November with an estimated thirty days of work needed to get the vessel ready to be placed in service we believed it was prudent to lower our expectations for EBITDA contribution for this vessel in 2013.
Thus we have adjusted our forecast of total EBITDA for 2013 to approximately $290 million from the prior $300 million.
Again as we’ve stated in prior quarters in backing out the [stub] impact of our discontinued operations both oil &amp; gas and pipeline and throw it into the equation a full year’s impact for the two vessels that entered the fleet in 2013 – the <i>Skandi Constructor</i> and the <i>Helix 534</i>- expected pro forma exit rate EBITDA for 2013 is more like $350 million.
We’ll actually provide our initial guidance for 2014 in February.
Both <i>Well Enhance </i>and <i>Skandi Constructor</i> have short duration dry docks in 2014 and we may and are evaluating to perform a life extension project on the <i>Seawell</i>.
If we do so she may come out of service in late December of next year to commence this project.
Year-over-year for ongoing operations we’re forecasting a revenue growth of 22% in 2013.
$1.8 billion of backlog at September 30<sup>th</sup> and $2.0 billion including the backlog for the <i>Helix Producer I</i> provides a solid foundation for our revenue base on a go forward basis.
For instance the <i>Q4000</i> is spoken for through 2015 with additional commitments in progress beyond.
The <i>Seawell Well Enhancer</i> and <i>Skandi Constructor</i> have relatively high levels of backlog and commitments through 2015 which should leave to continuing high levels of utilization – no exception being the dry docks I mentioned earlier and the possible life extension for the <i>Seawell</i>.
The <i>Helix 534</i> has a high level of backlog through 2015 with backlog filling in for 2016.
We’re forecasting total CAPEX for 2013 at $400 million; that’s up from the previous $360 million and this increase is entirely related to the decision to proceed with the <i>Q7000 </i>new build of which we paid a $70 million deposit in September.
The major items represented in this number are as follows: down payment plus design engineering expenditures for the <i>Q7000 </i>of $75 million – I think it’s important to note that the balance of the shipyard contract will not occur until the vessel is delivered in 2016.
So the major spending for this vessel has now been made in September; progress payments and spending on the <i>Q5000</i> currently under construction in Singapore at $70 million; modifications and refurbishments of the <i>H534 </i>at $90 million; additional Intervention Riser Systems for Well Intervention at $45 million; additional Robotics vessels and trenchers at $45 million; preliminary engineering work for the <i>Seawell</i> of $10 million; and dry dock on the <i>HP1 </i>of $15 million.
I’ll skip Slides 21 and 23 leave them for your reference and turn the call over to Owen for closing remarks.
Thanks Tony.
Well I’m pleased to report that all is going well and we’re on track with the execution of our growth strategy.
While the <i>H534</i> is arriving to market slower than we had hoped for our strategy for adding capacity to the growing well intervention market is solidly in place.
The slower start with the introduction of the <i>H534 </i>into the Gulf of Mexico intervention market was due to a prolonged refurbishment that has delayed the asset to market by almost six months.
The vessel’s now en route to the Gulf of Mexico and is expected to be in service prior to year end as Cliff said.
On the Robotics side the new T1200 trencher went into service onboard the <i>Grand Canyon</i> and we did add some new ROVs to update our fleet so we’ll expect some stronger results ahead for Robotics.
As Cliff mentioned also we added the <i>Skandi Constructor </i>back in Q2 but just recently completed the required modifications that will allow it to go into full light well intervention mode.
While a tad later than we expected this vessel is now working in intervention mode and it’s performing well.
While we didn’t get the assets working as fast as we had planned our exit EBITDA rate is still forecasted to be $350 million so by the end of the year we will be where we wanted to be.
The delays related to the <i>H534</i> and <i>Skandi Constructor</i> mean that 2013 results are not quite as good as they could have been but in spite of this strong performance from the rest of the company has allowed us to come really close to the $300 million EBITDA that we did forecast.
The two new builds <i>Q5000</i> and <i>Q7000</i> are progressing on schedule in the shipyard.
<i>Q5000</i> is on schedule to be delivered in early 2015 with the <i>Q7000 </i>around midyear 2016 and both projects are forecasted to be on or under budget.
In general we’re pleased with the 32% operating margins that we achieved this quarter and even see areas where we might improve.
The balance sheet remains strong with planned growth capital allocations paced to keep debt low.
We’re 16 months from delivery in our first in a series of new intervention assets and market demand is developing as we predicted.
All is well and we should expect even better results ahead.
So at this time we’ll be happy to take any questions.
Thank you.
(Operator instructions.) Our first question comes from the line of Jim Rollyson from Raymond James.
Please proceed.
Good morning guys.
Owen you talked about the Robotics side of things with the REM Installer coming in last quarter a couple more ROVs you mentioned and generally you sounded pretty positive.
Yet your revenue guidance for that business came down a little bit just for the rest of the year.
I’m trying to square those two items and trying to figure out maybe what drove that and how we should think about the Robotics business going into the latter part of this year and really next year.
Okay thanks Jim.
Let me let Cliff address that since he’s a lot closer to it.
Okay.
Well on the Robotics side as you remember on the long-term charter vessels we had we were running at about 98% utilization so obviously that’s a good thing – that’s been pretty consistent.
Lately we had a little bit of a slow start in the winter with those.
But one of the objectives that we haven’t achieved and that doesn’t look like we will this year and that we have historically is we have not been able to pick up any spot boats that we didn’t have already on long-term charter just because the market wasn’t there to pick those spot boats up and make some extra money in addition to our long-term charter vessels.
We do expect that to get back to the normal levels next year like we’ve had in the last three or four years in the past so that’s our biggest shortfall I believe there.
Okay so it’s not lack of opportunities; it’s just lack of available vessels.
That makes sense.
No it’s a little of both.
It is a little bit of market also that there has been a little bit of lack of opportunity as well there also.
So it’s not just lack of vessels; it’s been more so I’d say lack of opportunity there this year.
Okay that’s helpful.
And Tony you talked a little bit about you certainly gave us detail on CAPEX for the rest of this year – maybe give us some idea just kind of thinking about how to schedule the payments on the <i>Q5000</i> and the <i>Q7000 </i>as you go through the rest of the construction cycle just so we kind of maybe time that right.
Okay Jim just from a <i>Q5000</i> only the major milestone payments for 2013 are now behind us this year.
I would expect us to add two more milestone payments next year totaling about $120 million and then the final payment upon delivery in 2015.
As far as the <i>Q7000 </i>contract goes that shipyard contract is different than the <i>Q5000</i>.
We essentially negotiated 20/80 terms which is 20% down 80% on delivery so the rest of the shipyard payment won’t occur until the vessel is delivered in 2016.
That being said we have ongoing expenditures internally for engineering that will go on constantly as well as some equipment we buy for the vessel that will happen from time to time but the majority of the costs for both vessels is the shipyard-related costs and it’s as I outlined previously.
That’s what I thought you said that’s helpful.
And lastly maybe just Owen when you announced the <i>Q5000</i> you kind of waited until you got some work for that before you looked into seriously considering the <i>Q7000</i> and you had obviously picked up a contract.
I’m curious how marketing is going at this point or discussions at least for the <i>Q7000</i> and maybe how you think about the timing and what needs to happen if you were going to build a third new build.
That is one component of it Jim is having work booked up for this current vessel under construction.
I’d say that the market demand for the <i>Q7000 </i>is strong or stronger than what we had expected.
Timing-wise I’m going to go out on a limb here and say well let me go into the second part of that.
Another reason why you build these vessels sequentially is so that you can allocate your resources properly and gain some economy of scale and efficiencies.
So we wouldn’t want to start the next one too soon – we’d want to get down the road with the <i>Q7000 </i>before starting the next one.
I’ll just leave it to say that I’m pretty confident that before we get to that inflection point we will have sufficient contracted dates for the <i>Q7000</i> to proceed with the next vessel maximizing the efficiency of our current resources.
Okay thanks guys I appreciate it.
Our next question comes from the line of Joel Gibney from Capital One.
Please proceed.
Thanks good morning.
Owen I just wanted to get your bigger picture perspective on well intervention.
It certainly seems a little bit more perception versus reality in the market a little bit.
It sounds like everything’s proceeding well in terms of market demand.
I’m just curious to get your perception a little bit on mid-water and legacy deepwater offshore driller rate declines in the market.
There seems to be a bit of a perception that this puts a bit of a cap on well intervention rates and/or creates the notion that some rigs might step down into the market.
Just curious to get your thoughts if you’re seeing that if you’re not; whether or not you deem that material to sort of your market opportunities as it stands today.
In the long term Joe I would say that it’s immaterial.
I think there is a shift in the market to non-rig solutions for well intervention and I think there’s a growing awareness by the operators that they need this solution.
Near term could it put some downward pressure on pricing? Probably but keep in mind that historically we’ve priced at a discount to rigs already so there’s room there.
Also I think it’s just highlighting the efficiency argument greater than it has been.
There has been an efficiency gain by using our assets versus a rig that has to be taken into consideration.
And then finally consider the fact that 80% of all of the intervention in the world currently is done by rigs.
What’s happening is they shift some rigs to non-rig vessels.
That may slow a little bit with more rigs doing it but a few more rigs doing intervention when 80% of all the intervention’s done by rigs already is not material in my mind.
Okay helpful.
I appreciate it.
Let me add one thing Joe.
The <i>H534</i> I think demonstrated that converting one of these old drill ships to intervention is not an easy task.
Sure.
Specifically my next question I was just curious – I know the incremental costs on that asset look up a little bit here again sequentially.
Is that just a function of some of the incremental yard time in getting it ready with the longer stay or some other bells and whistles here as you’ve peeled it back? I’m just curious on the cost creep on that particular asset.
I think we had three things that occurred on the <i>H534.</i> One is we expanded the scope of the refurbishment that we originally had planned because we do want an asset that performs well in the market.
Second I think the condition of the vessel – you know when you get into these old vessels you can get into a refurbishment and put Band-Aid fixes on things and get working; or you can look at root cause and try and really dig down and that takes time and money.
And we opted to take the second route.
And then third we did have some vendor issues where some of the vendors that we gave engines and things out to their work was subpar and had to be reworked.
So that was the cause of the delay.
Okay helpful.
The last one for me Tony just some modeling-related questions: G&amp;A just curious I know this is a minor needle mover but I thought we might have seen a little bit more step down as you kind of pare back a little bit on sort of shore-based costs and some of the things associated with the construction side of things.
As <i>Express </i>is out of the mix now could we see G&amp;A step a little bit lower here? And also just a little bit of help on tax – where do we go with that on a reasonable run rate going forward? I know it can dance but Q3 was a little aberrant.
Just trying to get a decent run rate going forward.
Sure.
SG&amp;A from a pure spending standpoint was actually pretty flat for Q2.
We did book additional bad debt reserves in Q3 of some $2 million so that’s why you saw the tick up.
I would expect in Q4 it to come down.
In terms of tax we had some discreet items that benefited our tax rate in Q3 – 13% plus I would say is unusually low.
We expect the total rate for the year to be 20%.
And I think from our thinking and from everybody on the outside’s thinking we think low- to mid-20%s is the right type of rate going forward although this year we’ll be around 20%.
Okay helpful.
I appreciate it I’ll turn it back.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeff Campbell with Tuohy Brothers Investment Research.
Please proceed.
Yes good morning.
I just wanted to ask you a quick question with regards to <i>Seawell</i>.
Assuming that you do choose the life extension you mentioned that there might be a bit of a headwind if it goes into its work late in the year.
I was just wondering do you have any flexibility to work around that with the <i>Skandi Constructor </i>during a Q4 2013 dry dock? Well the reason we picked that timing is historically in the North Sea that’s the slow time in the year in the work efficiency and we struggle for keeping the utilization there.
So that’s why we chose that.
The other vessels are and we are booked up beyond that and we have work for the <i>Seawell</i> beyond that as well so we’re trying to pick the period when the clients would like for us to be out of service.
And obviously the North Sea is in the middle of winter so our goal is to get it in in December of next year and work December January and probably into February as well.
Okay well that was helpful.
I just wanted to ask kind of a little bit broader question.
When we spoke with Owen back in August he told us that plugging abandonment is the dominant business in well intervention but that production enhancement is increasing in demand.
And I was just wondering are you still seeing that trend for production enhancement increasing in the most recent quarter and looking ahead? Yeah definitely production enhancement is more of what we’re doing and there’s talk on the horizon about more decommissioning work as well but that’s still out in the future out there.
Okay thanks a lot.
That’s it for me.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Marino from Stephens Inc.
Please proceed.
Thanks.
Tony you called out a couple dry docks and then the <i>Seawell’s </i>life extension potential is I guess headwinds for 2014 versus the ’13 exit rate.
Is maybe the embedded day rate increases within Well Intervention and growth in the Robotics is that enough to kind of offset those discrete items? You know Michael that’s a good question.
We believe that a $350 million exit rate is a good proxy right now looking forward despite those dry docks and a possible life extension.
So I will say this – we’re in the middle of our budgeting process for 2014; we haven’t finalized it yet.
But based on our analysis of what 2014 should look like I think that exit rate is a good proxy now.
Okay thanks for that color.
And then two more I guess more housekeeping things: the planned sale of Ingleside what kind of proceeds are we expecting there or is it too early to say? I think the major terms are we’ve already received a $5 million deposit and I think we’re going to see progress payments over four years of about $10 million $8 million apiece.
So it’s going to be spread out over four years.
January is the next payment.
We close in January so that’s when we’ll receive the next payment.
Okay.
And then one final one just to make sure I have this in my model right but the dry dock of the <i>HP1</i> in Q4 of this year and you’re still expecting 45 to 60 days is that correct? It’s in dry dock right now.
It’s about halfway through so we’ll be on budget for that is our prognosis at this time.
But 45 to 60 days is still the thought? It’s less than that.
It’s going to be between 30 and 45.
Okay thank you.
(Operator instructions.) Our next question comes from the line of Martin Malloy with Johnson Rice.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
Could you maybe talk about what you’re seeing in terms of pricing for well intervention services as you look forward maybe on a year-over-year basis from ’13 to ’14 with you already having good contract coverage for almost all of ’14? I think in general – I’ll speak first and then let Cliff add something to it.
But I’d just like to point out that we have moved the intervention rates up pretty aggressively over the past two years so we are seeing stronger rates.
We’ve already talked about could there be some downward pressure from older rigs and the answer is probably yes so trying to predict how much further rates could go up is difficult.
There is greater demand than there is supply right now so that’s working in our favor and there is a big difference between long-term commitment and short-term spot market rates.
So the answer’s not easy but I think we have been successful in pushing them up.
I think there is probably some incremental additional increase coming but I’d be cautious about predicting too great an increase.
Okay.
Our biggest (inaudible) is going to come when we get the new vessels the <i>Q5000 </i>and the <i>Q7000</i> as far as the incremental increase.
And I think the fact that now the clients have realized the efficiencies using our vessels in well intervention versus trying to use the older rigs is helping us sustain those higher rates as well.
Okay.
And then just to go back to the Robotics segment and from the Q2 presentation to the Q3 presentation it’s about a 10% decline in terms of your revenue expectations for that this year.
And I know you mentioned you were unable to pick up some spot charter vessels but is there anything else that’s going on on the Robotics side that gives you concern? Are there projects on the renewable side that are not materializing or anything like that? As I mentioned Q1 we had a slow start in the North Sea so that had a couple vessels sitting at the docks which hurt us right out of the gates.
And as you mentioned we haven’t had spot vessels.
But it has been a little bit of a slow year on the renewable side but not anything substantial and project-wise that is picking up for next year and beyond.
I’ll add to that.
I think maybe expectations for this year if you go back to last year talking about this year there was a lot of talk in the industry about how strong the subsea market was going to be in the coming year and out into the future.
And I think our experience is that it didn’t materialize quite as strongly as what everybody was thinking especially here in the Gulf.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Trey Stolz from Iberia Capital Partners.
Please proceed.
Good morning guys.
A lot of my questions have been answered already.
I guess looking at <i>Canyon</i> with the additional chartered vessel there can you quantify or help us kind of understand what the contribution was quarter-over-quarter in terms of revenue how we might think about that.
Was there a shakedown period for a vessel like this and will we expect higher contribution on a relative basis going forward? If you’re talking about the new vessel I think the <i>REM Installer </i> that’s your question? Yes.
Yeah there was not a shakedown period.
It came out of the yard and went pretty much straight to work.
And actually it’s on kind of a field maintenance contract.
We’re supplying a flotilla or what we call a walk to work contract so there’s people staying on the vessel and working on the platform.
So it’s not a real high dollar earner contract for us and it’s on there until I think the end of this month actually.
So it’s not on a trenching campaign or a construction campaign – it’s a little bit more of a lesser return than a normal construction-type project.
So will you expect incremental operating income after this month from that vessel? Yes we expect to put it back into the construction side of work but also be aware that wintertime is fast approaching here in the North Sea so you could be seeing in Q4 the back end of Q4 we could be seeing some utilization projects as well.
Gotcha okay.
And then the <i>Seawell</i> what are the factors playing into your decision there on the <i>Seawell </i>and the project the life enhancement project? I’ll take that Cliff.
We have three light and efficient vessels working in the North Sea right now – demand is strong we need three.
The <i>Seawell</i> is now getting fairly old but she has a fantastic track record.
She was purpose built for intervention and she works exceedingly well.
So the decision tree was what do we do? Do we replace her or do we refurbish her? And at the end of the day through a lot of considerations I think a life extension is what makes the most market as well as commercial sense for us to do.
Some of that is driven by the fact that of the three vessels we have there two of them have manned diving onboard and the <i>Seawell</i> is one of them.
And to get a new vessel with manned diving on it is somewhat expensive and problematic as well.
And this one as Owen mentioned has a fantastic reputation a great hull so right now we’re looking at the extension versus a new build.
And can you quantify that at all what time out that might require for the <i>Seawell</i>? What time in the shipyard; how long out will it be missing? We’re estimating right now about 90 days.
We’re not sure – as we said we’re not 100% sure we’re going to go ahead with it but at the moment if we had to say what we’re going to do we’d put it in in December the end of December January and February.
Gotcha.
Alright that’s it for me.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Noll from Key Group Holdings.
Please proceed.
This is Brian Finkelstein for Michael.
I just had a quick question on the well construction – did it contribute any margins to the quarter? You mean on subsea construction? Yeah sorry I meant subsea construction.
Very very little.
It had $4 million of revenue but I don’t think it was anything [material no].
Yeah so negligible.
Okay and then just on the <i>Skandi</i> – did you guys capitalize any costs when it was in the shipyard? No not on the vessel itself.
The only capitalized costs are we built an intervention system that went onboard; that’s why it was at the dock we had to install it onboard.
It actually was a drag on Q3 while it was in the shipyard because we had extra people and we still had to pay the vessel charter.
So it was actually a drag on the quarter until it went to work on September 1<sup>st</sup>.
Okay perfect.
And then just last on the Robotics I know there’s been a handful of questions – I know there’s some good progression and I understand that some of the vessels were spot that you weren’t able to get a hold of.
How should we think about that segment going forward? Well as Tony said earlier we’re in the budgeting process right now and we’re in the first stages of that.
So I don’t know how that’s going to come out exactly but I would expect that next year would be a better year than what we’re having this year from a profit standpoint – probably somewhere between where we are this year and where we were last year.
Okay perfect.
Thanks.
Mr.
Jamerson there are no further questions at this time.
Please continue with your presentation or closing remarks.
Okay thanks for joining us today.
We very much appreciate your interest and participation and look forward to having you participate on our Q4 2013 Conference Call.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
And welcome to the Helix Energy Solutions Group Review of the Fourth Quarter 2013 Results Conference Call.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Afterwards we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded Thursday February 20 2014.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Terrence Jamerson Director of Finance and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
Joining me today is Owen Kratz our CEO; Tony Tripodo our CFO; Cliff Chamblee Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; Alisa Johnson our General Counsel; and Erik Staffeldt our Finance and Treasury Director.
Hopefully you all have had an opportunity to review our press release and related slide presentation released last night.
If you do not have a copy of these materials both can be accessed through the Investor Relations page on our website at www.helixesg.com.
The press release can be accessed under the Press Releases tab and the slide presentation can be accessed by clicking on today’s Webcast icon.
Before we begin our prepared remarks Alisa Johnson will make a statement regarding forward-looking information.
During this conference call we anticipate making certain projections and forward-looking statements based on our current expectations.
All statements in this conference call or in the associated presentation other than statements of historical facts are forward-looking statements and are made under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Our actual future results may differ materially from our projections and forward-looking statements due to a number and variety of factors including those set forth in our slide two and in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2012.
Also during this call certain non-GAAP financial disclosures maybe made.
In accordance with SEC rules the final slide of our presentation materials provide a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP measures to comparable GAAP financial measures.
The reconciliation along with this presentation the earnings press release our annual report and a replay of this broadcast are available on our website.
Owen? Good morning every.
I’m going to start up with some comments to slide five which is the high level summary of the Q4 results.
We had a very good Q4.
EBITDA increased to $82 million from $70 million in Q3 while EPS was down to $0.35 per share from $0.42 per share.
This was primarily driven by a much higher tax rate in Q4 29% in Q4 versus 13% in Q3 plus the fact that we had a net non-recurring gain of $0.04 per share in Q3.
For the year we round up with $300 million of EBITDA followed on our original guidance.
Moving to slide six and seven our Well Intervention business realized strong levels of utilization in Q4 at 94%.
More importantly the outlook as well as our backlog to this business continues to improve and grow more on this later including the recent announcement of Petróbras award.
The successful introduction of the Skandi Constructor and the Well Intervention operations in September has been a nice incremental contribution to our results.
The vessels performed very well and big hats off to our team in Aberdeen for introducing this vessel with a very smooth operational launch.
Our Robotics chartered vessel fleet realized 88% utilization in Q4 which is relatively good for this business segment given our exposure to the North Sea market where activity levels generally tail-off the late fall and winter months.
Our good performance in Q4 overcame the fact the Well Enhancer went into dry dock in mid-December earlier than we had planned and the Skandi went off higher as well in the December transiting to West Africa.
In addition the Helix Producer I was out of service for 46 days in Q4 for its regulatory dry dock.
Given all these events I especially feel our Q4 performance is very good.
On the slide seven from a balance perspective our cash and liquidity levels remained very strong.
Cash stayed flat at approximately $480 million with liquidity levels staying strong at approximately $1.1 billion adding the unused capacity in our revolving credit facility.
Our net debt to book cap remains at very conservative 5% which gives us the confidence to take advantage of the many market opportunities available to us.
I will now turn the call over to Cliff for an in-depth discussion of our Contracting Service results.
All right.
Thank you.
Good morning all.
As you can see from our summary results Contracting Services and revenues as a whole increased by $11 million quarter-over-quarter while gross profits remained same at around 30%.
As Owen alluded to you in his opening remarks this was a very impressive quarter where strong performance in Robotics and our Well Intervention fleet were made up for the shortfall and revenues from the Helix Producer I and the Well Enhancer both been dry dock portion of the fourth quarter.
I’d like -- I’d also like to point out that we included the sale of our Spoolbase facility located at Ingleside in early January thus completing our exit from the subsea construction business.
Moving on to Slide 10 the Well Enhancer view in the Gulf of Mexico the Q4000 utilization was 100% for the second quarter.
Our spare Intervention Riser System IRS no.
2 remained under contract in standby rates for the entire quarter and start earning operationally when it went on hire at the beginning of late November and through the end of December.
Also after a rather complex and lengthy reinstatement process the Helix 534 is now operational and on hire for the remainder of the year.
Over in North Sea both the Seawell and Skandi Constructor achieved 100% utilization for the quarter while the Well Enhancer was fully utilized up until as she entered dry dock in mid-December.
The Well Enhancer then returned to service in late January.
For the fourth quarter all three vessels remain busy on a variety of well intervention projects in North Sea.
Our Skandi transcended to offshore West Africa in mid-December to begin approximately 60-day well intervention campaign.
This is similar campaign.
This is similar to the one we performed utilizing the Well Enhancer back in the fourth quarter of ’11 and through the first quarter of ’12.
Skandi is scheduled to return back to North Sea later in the first quarter of this year.
Next on robotics and moving to Slide 11 the robotics utilization remained strong for the fourth quarter during the season where we have typically seen declined activity in the North Sea.
Our chartered vessel fleet utilization was 88% which was consistent of our five vessels under long-term charter.
During the quarter we also picked up three spot vessels for the Gulf of Mexico for few short-duration jobs.
Utilization of the ROVs trenchers and the ROVDrill was relatively flat from fourth quarter versus third quarter.
However the increase in trencher days offset the slight decrease in vessel utilization thus keeping profits in line with the last quarter.
All four of our trenchers were utilized during the quarter which was the first in 2014.
At T1200 and iTrencher were onboard to Grand Canyon for oil and gas trenching while the T750 on the Deep Cygnus and T600 primarily performed trenching work renewables in the renewable sector.
We continue to make progress with our ROVDrill technology where we completed a job offshore West Africa with the asset.
We’ve also extended existing multi-ROV services contract with the client in Malaysia.
This contract runs through January of next year.
We move on to Slide 12.
I will leave this slide detailing the vessel utilization for your reference and with that I will turn it over to Eric for our key balance sheet metrics.
Thanks Cliff and good morning.
Please turn to Slide 14.
Slide 14 provides an illustration of our debt maturity profile at December 31st.
Debt reduction during the quarter was a result of the required quarterly payments of out term loan.
Moving on Slide 15 provides an update on our gross and net debt levels historically at December 31st.
We continue to maintain a strong liquidity position with approximately $1.1 billion of liquidity.
Our net debt levels was approximately $88 million and remain constant quarter-over-quarter.
Our total net debt reduction for the year was approximately $500 million.
Over the past five years we have reduced our gross debt levels by over [$12 million to $13 million] million and our net debt position by over $1.7 million.
Tony? Thanks Erik.
Let me move straight to Slide 17 which presents our initial 2014 guidance.
Consistent with the exit rate guidance we provided throughout 2013 we expect 2014 EBITDA to approximate $350 million.
This guidance takes into consideration three vessels that are entering or in the case of Well Enhancer having a dry dock in 2014 as follows.
The Skandi Constructor is expected to enter dry dock sometime in December.
The Well Enhancer actually went into dry dock in mid-December and successfully completed its dry dock in late January and is now back to work.
We plan for the Seawell to go into dry dock in December for the purpose of performing some major improvements in order to extend their useful like well beyond what I considered a normal operating life.
The vessel was built in 1987 and she is still performing at a high-level and is much appreciated by our North Sea customer base.
We feel the investment that we plan to make will add many years to our life and represents significant return on investment.
As we indicated earlier the H 534 entered to service in mid-February so with all of above and taking to consideration we still forecast the $350 million EBITDA number for 2014 overcoming the dry dock hurdles as well as the late start for the H 534.
The outlook for the robotics business is much stronger at this stage of the New Year versus 2013.
We expect all geographic regions for robotics to improve in 2014.
The trenching market is strong niche for us should pick up nicely in 2014.
As such we are presently working on two major trenching programs right now.
The Grand Canyon 2 is slated to enter into fleet very late in 2014 and does not expect to contribute much if anything in 2014.
When you look at our revenue guidance for 2014 for ongoing ops we are forecasting a revenue growth of 28%.
Our backlog amounted to $2 billion at December 31st.
The vast majority of this backlog is represented by the well intervention business and this number does not include the two vessel contract we recently announced for Brazil.
We expect to announce backlog at the end of the first quarter of 2014 when adding the recently sign Petróbras contract at an amount approaching $3 billion.
By vessel the Q4000 is spoken for through 2015 with additional commitments beyond.
The Seawell Well Enhancer and Skandi Constructor have relatively high levels of backlog and commitments through 2015 which should lead the continuing high levels of utilization.
Note the prior commentary regarding dry docks and life extension.
The Helix 534 has a full backlog or is otherwise committed through 2016 with backlog reaching into 2017 and the Q5000 is a five-year contract with BP for a minimum of 270 days of utilization per year once she is placed in service.
Our CapEx for 2014 is now forecasted at $400 million.
Of this number approximately $320 million is growth capital including progress payments for the Q5000 spending on the Q7000 ROV fleet additions a new ROV transferred to T1500 and initial spending to furnish the two vessels to be constructed for the Petróbras contract.
I will skip slides 21 through 24 and leave them for your reference.
At this time I will turn the call back over to Owen for closing comments.
Well things are good.
And in spite of some challenges like this Skandi constructed delay going into full well intervention service for few months no contribution from the H-534 for the entire year and then early dry dock at the Well Enhancer.
Strong performance from the rest of the well intervention fleet and stronger production facilities business allowed us to meet the guidance of $300 million EBITDA issued at the beginning of the year.
There always seems to be give and take and we can applaud the efforts of those that worked at Helix for reaching to make this happen.
Helix is now well into the promised growth strategy.
The Q5000 new construction is ongoing and appears to be under budget at this time.
Jurong Shipyard expressed their determination of an on-time delivery in Q1 next year.
The Q7000 is progressing with first steel to be cut early this summer.
The most recent news is the establishment of Helix in Brazil with two charter newbuild vessels for Petróbras.
We continue to add assets and robotics as the market opportunities present themselves.
This year should see the delivery of a new charter vessel Grand Canyon II a new trencher to serve the growing alternatives energy markets and several new work-class ROVs to upgrade and grow our fleet.
The market continues to have strong visibility for future well intervention demand as well.
If the concerns about the cyclical softening of rig rates does occur we believe this should have little effect on Helix as our assets are booked through 2015 and beyond with demand increasing.
What we are seeing right now is a strong competition by the drilling rig contractors for the available labor pool.
This is the most direct impact we are seeing from the drilling rig side of the industry.
Our balance sheet remains strong with over $1 billion in liquidity.
We’ve opted to charter the two newbuild vessels from Siem Offshore for the Brazilian contract in order to minimize the capital investment and keep more options open for future growth without overstressing the balance sheet.
We are committed to maintaining a prudent balance sheet.
I believe we are on track with our growth initiatives and I am very excited about the future.
At this time we will turn it back over and open it up for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Jim Rollyson.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Jim.
Can we get maybe just a little bit of color on the two new deals for Brazil and Petróbras maybe? Four-year deals on contracts are these full utilization just maybe some thoughts on how much cash flow it takes to generate just some kind of color there? Yes there are two vessels the first vessel to be delivered mid 2016 with the second vessel to be delivered within six months after the first one.
The total CapEx right now budgeted at 240.
And EBITDA contribution give or take it depends on the ramp up the SG&amp;A and everything but EBITDA generation is going to be roughly $80 million for both vessels.
Okay.
$40 million per vessel.
Yeah that’s perfect.
That’s helpful.
Historically Petróbras has tried to do it seems like everything on the cheap.
And $40 million EBITDA wouldn’t suggest you guys are necessarily doing anything on the cheap? Is it a shift or were they actually paying out for quality or maybe some thoughts around that? I would I would -- obviously I’d like to say yes.
So that’s the case.
I think our relationship with Petróbras goes back many many years.
I think Petróbras is one that’s in Brazil but we’re not willing to go there unless it’s the right contract.
And I think we’ve been very patient.
There has been timing issues but Petróbras is also the leader without a doubt in the use of intervention vessels up to this point.
So they are very savvy about what it takes and what the requirements are.
And I’d like to believe the reason that we were awarded this contract was because of our longstanding track record and excellence in intervention.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
Last one from me just maybe any update on the contracting outlook for the Q7000? This is Cliff.
Yeah we’re slow working the contracting issues.
We expect BP to finalize their own commitments here sometime soon.
And we’ve got several other contractors that our clients have been working with as well.
I think we’ll have more flavor on that probably in the June timeframe.
Perfect.
Felt like you guys are in pretty good shape from a backlog standpoint.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Martin Malloy.
Please go ahead.
Congratulations on the good quarter.
Thanks Martin.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more about the demand you are seeing on the ROV side.
I know it’s in the outlook section on Page 19 of the slide deck that you had two five-year contracts for ROV services continue ROVs.
And that’s -- I don’t recall seeing those kind of length of contracts before for your ROVs.
Is that something new and maybe if you could talk about the number of ROVs that you are looking at over the next couple of years? Yeah.
I’ll just make a quick comment and turn it over to Cliff because he’s very close to it.
But in general we’re trying to transition that business model a little bit and we’re actively going after seeking longer term contract.
One of the issues that we had going into last year was that our visibility is on our stock market basis and it’s very difficult for us to sometimes get it right.
Right to say we usually get it more right than wrong but last year for instance we had excess vessel to pass that sort of drove the ROV division down.
This year we are -- because we are switching and pursuing the longer term contracts our visibility improved.
And I think that’s gone reflecting our increased margins for us because we’re able to rightsize the fleet that are going into each year.
You have anything to add.
Owen I think you covered it there but yeah you’re right.
We have picked up some long-term contracts on two different vessels for the same client for two ROVs on each vessel and one of those started a few months back and one just gotten started and we’re pursuing more of those as we speak.
Okay.
Any additional opportunities to add Intervention Riser Systems that you might rent out to other operators? I think the rental riser business is an exciting opportunity.
I know there is a lot of interest from the major fabricators.
And that we’ve -- I don’t know how to put this.
It’s a challenge for us.
We’re not a fabricator.
Historically we’ve not been a fabricator of our own systems.
We designed them and had been built by others.
We’ve just taken on a new facility though where we’re going to be taking over the more of the assembly of our own systems.
That should improve our production time for generating them.
Right now we’re sort of working very hard to produce enough systems for the new vessels that we’re adding and that’s our intent that we get ahead of that.
And we have one rental systems that’s out right now that’s well but we need redundancy there and the markets are certainly there to support additional systems.
So that’s an exciting growth potential for us.
And where is the new facility that you took over.
It’s on Hempstead -- it’s just off the Hempstead highway.
It’s here in Houston.
Here in Houston.
So it's very close to our corporate headquarters.
Okay.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And the next question comes from Igor Levi.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning.
There has been a lot of concern in the market on the increased competition from rig.
So I was hoping you could talk a bit about how your vessels stack up against rig as far as efficiencies for both the heavy intervention tube vessels and the light intervention vessels you have in the North Sea? That's a long discussion.
Let’s take light intervention vessels.
First of all it's absolutely a slam dunk that when it comes down to join light intervention test our vessels are far more efficient than using a drill rig to run riser wide line through the open water column.
That's I don't know even though remote consideration by producers.
On running a riser system Statoil did a study during the Cat B tendering process that does sort of show that we -- our vessels generated something around in the order of 40% efficiency gain over a rig.
I think there is lot of components to that.
First of all our vessels are permanently rigged up for intervention to the equipment and specific two intervention the open-sided there the size of the intervention and everything are optimized for intervention.
So laying out the handling of all the systems that’s the result of 25 years of doing it and every little efficiency gain is sort of worked into new vessels.
I might say that we also -- we price our vessels because they are smaller than the rig.
The capital cost is lower and therefore we're able to price lower with the same return on capital.
But there is a little mention over if you look at our quoted rates versus rig rates they're not exactly apples-to-apples.
If a different rig rate -- if a rig is do intervention work you still have to put the Intervention Riser onboard along with some other equipment.
So the rig rate is a rig rate plus where ours it’s a not all-inclusive rates including the Intervention Riser the ROVs et cetera.
So if there has been quite a bit of efficiency gain.
I might also say I think the producers are little concerned and looking out and I know there is a lot of talk about softening in the rig market right now.
But I think producers have longer term vision.
And they are a little concern about the tight market in the future and where rig rates are or could good go.
And I think there is more for of an acceptance of the intervention technology and almost a mandate starting to occur producers to use intervention vessels rather than rig and leave the rigs for the drilling.
So all-an-all I just -- I've been looking to a lot of the talk about softening rig rates looking at actual rig rates some have gone up some have go down.
It's just not a concern for us.
Great.
That's very helpful and when you mentioned on the point of rig rate actually being rig rates plus the cost of setting up the intervention equipment.
Do you have any color on what that actually costs so we can kind of integrate that into what the comparable economics are assuming I guess a typical job is two to three weeks? That’s sort of hard to do because you have to look at each individual rig contractors and see what they are including and what they are not including but order of magnitude is very similar close to 100 000.
Okay.
And lastly… I think that’s understated because when you get into some nuances like how much support is needed for the rig versus to support for our vessels.
Our vessels become pretty much all inclusive.
So the support cost is another delta so it’s probably greater than the 100 000 difference just comparing the quoted rates.
Okay.
That’s extremely extremely helpful.
And lastly any color on pricing for your vessels where you are actually seeing out there for a well intervention.
Last call I think you mentioned that you could potentially see a slowdown in price increases how is that what have you been seeing since then? I think that was more of a hypothetical response to people asking what happens if rigs rates fall sufficiently then yes at some point our rates would drop.
But I think if you look at our track record we have been pretty successful at pushing our rates up and I think that trend is continuing where we do have opportunity to increase rates.
Thank you.
I will turn it back.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Marino.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Owen I guess you addressed a lot of my concerns just in the previous statements.
But I was curious on the backlog number you guys at least had in the presentation of $1.8 billion was flat sequentially.
I would be curious to know is there any were there any changes within that in terms of rates or -- I’m kind of getting at the same question that a lot of concerns that a lot of people have I mean has there been any pushback in rate from customers as though we have seen some softness in the mid-water drilling fleet? Michael let me addressed this.
I think what the investors have to look at is the bigger picture here that not too long ago that is at the end of 2012 our backlog was $850 million.
And we are going to be likely to reporting a backlog number at the end of the first quarter close to $3 billion that’s a pretty significant increase.
And over the last few quarters our margins have held up very well if not been higher and our backlog was essentially I think in pure dollars a little higher at the end of the fourth quarter than it was at the end of the third quarter.
But I think the backlog has committed rates.
So we’re not at risk for rates I think that’s an important point to emphasize here.
Our backlog at $3 billion is not at risk for rate.
So what happens in the rig rate market is really of no concern for us next couple of years in terms of how it’s going to impact our margins.
Can I jump for a second because this whole dialogue that we get an awful lot.
First of all that we’re talking about a change in rig rates we’re talking about something that’s going to occur in 2016 2017 or beyond before it will impact us.
And I mentioned the longer-term vision or visibility of what the producers are looking at.
All of this is sort of anecdotal but I would certainly like to challenge the analyst to actually look at take a full list of all of the existing 3rd and 4th Gen rigs in the world look at which ones are suitable for well intervention and you get down to a very small number and then you look at the ones that have long-term committed contracts and the threat to our market is not that significant.
All right great.
I really appreciate the color.
And I guess Owen if I could kind of follow up on that.
It sounds like from what your previous comments that really customers have started to look at you guys.
It’s a completely different decision making process from using intervention vessel versus using a drilling rig.
I mean is that a fair statement that kind of we’re comparing apples and oranges now? I really think that’s the case but I think you’re seeing a bifurcation of the market here.
I think there is an actual intervention market with its own business model which is distinct and separate from the drilling model.
The contracting style is different.
The length of the contract is different.
The use of the equipment on the deck is different.
It just happens to be that semisubmersibles when you used with interventions just happened to have similarities in the current rig.
When do you think that distinction really started to take place in the marketplace? Is it taking place today? Or is it something maybe Macondo help trigger with the Q4000 use there? Or is it just being -- is it something I guess that’s been building for while but I mean if you could kind of shed some light on kind of that how that processor that customer mindset is changing or have changed?  I don’t think there is a singular trigger event.
If you go back in history you have to realize that we never achieved full utilization on a single vessel and well intervention until 2007.
Even when the Q4000s we’ve delivered in 2002 it was not readily and immediately accepted and there was no trigger along the way it’s just incrementally gotten better and better.
And I think with the credibility of the track record of what we’ve done has gained acceptance.
The tightening of the rig markets and where rig rates have gone has also driven the producers to really look at the alternatives.
I think there was a period of time and we’re still in that period of time where the producers are looking at various options which makes it sort of difficult -- a little more difficult for us on a competitive front because there is a lot of ideas about how to do intervention.
We have 25 years of stake so we’re pretty firmly entrenched on how we think it ought to be done.
And I think the producers are starting to come around and trust us on our methodologies.
So I don’t think it’s a singular event like Macondo.
I think it’s just the natural progression of the industry going to deepwater and the realization that in deepwater with the rising costs there have to be a change shift in paradigm as to how you distribute the work.
If you look back historically itself roughly 50% of the work was done by drill rigs 50% done by subsea construction assets.
The construction market has been bifurcated and you had special assets doing a particular task.
Moving into the deepwater the drill rig was still used for all of the tasks conventionally used by drill rigs.
So it’s a natural progression that the market would start to look at the individual tasks done by drill rigs and start to separate (inaudible) and look for special event application.
And I think that’s the process that we’ve been going through.
Great.
Thanks for the background and color Owen.
(Operator Instructions) We have no further questions at this time.
I’ll turn the call back over for any closing remarks.
Okay thanks for joining us today.
We very much appreciate your interest and participation and look forward to having you on our first quarter 2014 call in April.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect all lines.
Thank you and have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
And welcome to the First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Afterwards we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded Tuesday April 22.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Terrence Jamerson Director of Finance and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
Participating on this call for Helix today is Owen Kratz our CEO; Tony Tripodo our CFO; Cliff Chamblee Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; Alisa Johnson our General Counsel; and Erik Staffeldt our Finance and Treasury Director.
Hopefully you all have had an opportunity to review our press release and related slide presentation released last night.
If you do not have a copy of these materials both can be accessed through the Investor Relations page on our website at www.helixesg.com.
The press release can be accessed under the Press Releases tab and the slide presentation can be accessed by clicking on today’s Webcast icon.
Before we begin our prepared remarks Alisa Johnson will make a statement regarding forward-looking information.
During this conference call we anticipate making certain projections and forward-looking statements based on our current expectations.
All statements in this conference call or in the associated presentation other than statements of historical facts are forward-looking statements and are made under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Our actual future results may differ materially from our projections and forward-looking statements due to a number and variety of factors including those set forth in our slide two and in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2013.
Also during this call certain non-GAAP financial disclosures may be made.
In accordance with SEC rules the final slide of our presentation materials provide a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP measures to comparable GAAP financial measures.
The reconciliation along with this presentation the earnings press release our annual report and a replay of this broadcast are available on our website.
Owen?  Good morning everyone.
Let’s move to slide five which is a high level summary of Q1 results 2014 is off to a very good start EBITDA increased to $93 million from $82 million in Q4 and $42 million in Q1 of 2013.
EPS came in at $0.51 per share benefiting by two non-recurring gains that contributed $0.11 a share.
Revenues increased to 25 or $254 million in Q1 up from $227 million in the prior quarter when you look at quarter over quarter results on the basis of the businesses we are operating today our quarterly revenues increased approximately 33% in 2014 versus 2013.
Turning to slide six we closed on the sale of our former Ingleside Spoolbase in Q1 realizing a gain of $10.5 million.
And we also collected insurance proceeds on an old oil and gas property related to Hurricane Ike damage of some $7 million.
After tax these two items contributed $0.11 of earnings in Q1.
We continue to experience strong levels of utilization in Q1 for our Well Intervention fleet at 91% despite the fact that the Well Enhancer spent the first 24 days of the year in a scheduled dry dock.
The Q4000 realized a 100% utilization.
As we noted in our prior conference call the H 534 finally entered service in mid-February with 42 days of utilization.
However startup issues for its new Intervention Riser system led to 17 of these days at reduced rates.
The Skandi Constructor continues to perform at a high level well operating during its West Africa campaign which was completed during Q1.
Our Robotics chartered vessels fleet realized 80% utilization in Q1 which is relatively good for this business segment during the winter months.
That tracked along with a fair amount of spot market work on the Gulf of Mexico it got to its business off to a very good start.
Year over year for Q1 our Robotics business increased revenues 38%.
Onto slide seven from a balance sheet perspective our cash and liquidity levels remain very strong cash at $417 million along with the unused portion of our credit facility kept total liquidity at a fairly consistent level of approximately $1.1 billion.
Net debt-to-book cap remains at a very conservative 6% level.
I’ll now turn the call over to Cliff for an in depth discussion of our contract and service results.
Okay Owen thanks good morning everyone.
First of all I’d like to echo Owen’s comments all of its businesses are off to a good start for 2014.
On the Well Intervention side in addition of the 534 and the Skandi Constructor has helped drive revenues higher both over last quarter and over a year ago.
Over to Robotics by keeping the vessels working during this winter season’s been instrumental in improving revenues and profits from a year ago increased activity in the Gulf of Mexico and trenching work that carried over the last quarter has also helped provide towards strong performance from Q4 of last year.
The decrease in vessel utilization of our chartered fleet from Q4 to Q1 this year as reflected in a decrease in Robotics gross margin from last quarter to this quarter.
As many of you already know we sustained a power outage on the Helix Producer I at the end of this quarter.
The outage occurred on March 28 which had a very minimal impact on the Q1 numbers.
The vessel was returned to service and production went back on line on April 13.
We move on slide 10 for Well Enhancer overview.
The Q4000 continues to be extremely liable this is now our third straight quarter achieving 100% utilization.
Our rental IRS system was on hire for 42 days during the quarter 12 of which at standby rates.
The 534 has been on higher average single day that’s going into service in mid-February.
As we stated earlier 17 of those days were either reduced or repair rates due to connector issues we encountered with the IRS in first place in the service.
The 534 is back working at full rates and both vessels are full booked for the remainder of 2014.
And we also expect strong utilization from our rental IRS system for the remainder of the year.
Over to North Sea the utilization was 86% over quarter compared to 92% for the fourth quarter in 2013.
This was primarily due to the Well Enhancer being in dry dock for the first 24 days of the year.
We also had the Seawell of hire for approximately seven days in February for routine maintenance.
Although utilization was down revenues were bolstered by strong performance of Skandi Constructor down in Africa and the recognition of deferred mobilization revenue.
On the Robotics on slide 11 we achieved 80% utilization for the chartered vessels which is relatively strong for the winter months when activity sometimes tapers off due to weather issues.
We’re also seeing greater activity in the Gulf of Mexico for this quarter.
All four of the spot vessel utilized during the quarter were deployed in the Gulf of Mexico.
Trenching also remained strong during the quarter both of Deep Cygnus and the Grand Canyon performed trenching scope utilizing T750 T1200 and the i-Trencher.
Our fourth trencher the T600 completed trenching scopes aboard the client’s vessels during the quarter.
Overall pretty strong start for Robotics for the year and we have a good those building on our vessels which are the key drivers for revenues in this business.
We’ll go onto slide 12.
I’ll leave this slide because of vessel utilization for your reference.
And with that I’ll turn it over to Eric for our key balance sheet metrics.
Erik? Thanks Cliff.
Good morning.
Please turn to slide 14.
Slide 14 provides an illustration of our debt instrument contributed profile at March 31.
That reduction for the new quarter was a result of the required quarterly payments of our term loan and the semi-annual payments of MARAD notes.
Moving on slide15 it provides an update on our year-end growth to net debt levels historically ended March 31.
We continue to maintain a strong liquidity position possibly 1.1 billion of liquidity.
Our net debt level was approximately $91 million remaining fairly constant quarter-over-quarter.
Cash generated from our operations funded to cost mainly $45 million of cash investments $6 million of the motor payments and $5 million of stock repurchases during the quarter and quarter ended our net debt to both capitalization ratio to the conservative 6%.
Tony? Okay.
Moving over to slide 17 which represents our updated 2014 guidance.
The combination of the following factors has led us to tweak our guidance upward a tad.
First of fall we’re up to a very good start as we've documented here and quarter one came in better than we initially forecasted.
Secondly our backlog levels should produce high vessel utilization for our Well Intervention fleet throughout 2014.
And third better visibility in our Robotics fleet utilization should result in a strong year for this business unit.
Thus we believe we have more upside and downside off of our original provided $350 million EBITDA guidance and thus we are now saying EBITDA that should be equal to or greater than $350 million for the year.
Following suit we have tweaked our EPS guidance up and nickel now providing $1.60 to $1.70 range for 2014.
Over to slide 18 our updated guidance takes in a consideration that both the Seawell and the Skandi Constructor will enter dry dock sometime in Q4.
With the execution of the two vessel Petróbras contract we are now reporting our total backlog as of March 31 of approximately 2.9 billion.
Slide 18 also discusses the near term utilization levels for each of our Well Intervention vessels which I will leave for your reference.
We have excellent near term backlog visibility for our fleet.
Again and as previously stated the outlook for the Robotics business is much stronger at this stage of the year versus 2013.
We expect all geographic regions for robotics to improve in 2014.
The trenching market a strong niche for us has materialized very nicely in 2014 as such we are presently working on two major trenching programs right now.
Our newest trencher the T1500 is expected to be delivered to us shortly and will be immediately mobilized on our onboard spud vessel and deployed on initial three month project in the North Sea.
The Grand Canyon II is now slated to enter the fleet in early 2015 a slight root to the right but this factor’s already baked in to our stated forecast.
Year over year for ongoing operations we’re forecasting revenue growth of 29% in 2014.
We are forecasting a total CapEx spend for 2014 of 400 million the same as previously guided.
Of this number approximately 320 million is growth capital including progress payments for the Q5000 spending on the Q7000 all of the fleet additions the T1500 trencher and initial spending to furnish the two vessels to be constructed for the Petróbras contract.
I’ll skip slides 21 to 24 leave them for your reference and at this time I’ll turn the call back over to Owen.
Thanks Tony.
Well Q1 has certainly gotten us off to a good start in 2014.
The earnings report is relatively self-explanatory and there’s not much more to be said about it.
It does reflect our internal expectations of our current business model our expectations regarding the market are materializing and we’re executing as planned our newest Well Interventions vessel the H 534 is now in the market working and working well we did have some early shakedown issues with the Intervention Riser system but we expect those to be behind us.
The construction of the Q5000 is going well it’s on or under budget and we anticipate that it’ll be in service around mid-next year.
The Q7000 is soon to cut first deal and all is going as planned for delivery in 2016.
The two vessels for Brazil are still in the early stages of their construction schedule.
The new trenchers will be delivered soon and we have six ROVs on order this year.
The new Grand Canyon vessel should be joining the Robotics fleet in the beginning of next year.
We believe that Helix is clearly the global leader now in non-rig.
Well Intervention solutions as well as robotic jet trenching.
We forecast a continuation in the increase and demand for our services and have a strong backlog extending our multiple years.
While it may be a bit early to offer an upward revision to our 2014 full year guidance we’ve tweaked our original guidance to indicate an upward bias.
We realize and are well aware of the concerns that have been expressed about the softening rig market and how it may impact Helix.
Hopefully and as evidenced by our growing back log and our demonstrated operational efficiencies we believe this concern as applied to Helix is fundamentally overstated.
We’ll be happy to take any questions now.
Thank you (Operator Instructions) your first question comes from the line of Jim Rollyson.
Inc</strong>  Owen couple of big picture questions first been a lot of talk you know the last few months about the IOCs and capital spending and refocusing you know towards returning cash to shareholders seems like a lot of that discussion revolves around infrastructure cost but this as it relates to spending and off shore deep market your market niche curious what your customers are telling you as far as that capital change in focus how that may or may not impact you going forward for the next couple of years.
Okay Jim we don’t hear much more from the clients than you do about their capital spending aspirations but what I will tell you is one of the reasons that I really love the niche that we’re in right now is that it’s more life appealed oriented when capital spending drops on the drill bit and the field development side increasing production production has to come from somewhere and that typically falls to well enhancement and improved recoverability and that’s the essence that’s behind intervention so a life appealed service focusing on improving production at a time when the drilling is in the slow cycle is actually beneficial to us.
Inc</strong>  Makes perfect sense couple of questions around backlog either Owen or Tony if I’m not mistaken last quarter you guys had stated the 534 had backlog through ’16 and into ’17 and the wordings a little different now it says through ’15 with visibility into ’17 a.
I’m curious if that’s a word that’s changed or something actually changed on the backlog and then maybe a little color on where you stand in giving additional backlog to the 4000 and actually backlog for the 7000.
Jim a good question I think it’s subtle semantics here.
We only count as backlog it’s sort of set in stone contractually internally and to our customers we have committed these vessels with the understanding that they’re committed to certain customers our semantics may have been a little different last time but really nothing has changed in the backlog.
Inc</strong>  Okay and any hope or visibility on extending the Q4000 into ’17 and or getting backlog for the Q7000.
I’ll take the Q4 I’ll let Owen take the Q7.
The Q4 in our own mind and to certain customers is committed through 2017.
We don’t count all of it as backlog again until some of these quote intents are firmly set in stone.
But in our own mind and in our own scheduling the Q4 is really pretty much spoken for it through that time period.
I’ll let Owen address the Q7000.
Jim as you know we don’t deal purely on speculation although technical you could call the Q7 a spec build vessel.
The -- if you notice the Q7 was built ahead of the Q6 and that’s because all of the design are pre-engineered but the Q7 jumped the queue because of dialog with clients.
Sometimes it takes longer to translate that into written document in the signed contract but I’ve0 just advice a little patients and I’m not worried about the queue it’s just a matter of when not if we contracted.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeffrey Campbell.
Good morning.
Today Baker Hughes announced an alliance Aker Solutions that will include and I quote focus on advancing the industry's well intervention capabilities to further optimize efficiency and reduce risks in subsea developments.
And in Baker's own earnings call they also called out a deep-water Gulf of Mexico ESP solution specifically designed so that it could be serviced by a light well intervention system.
Sounds like well intervention utilization is being considered in a significantly different way than might have been the case even a year ago.
What is your take on these developments? And is Helix specifically part of any project discussions or planning? I’ll take the second part of that question first if we were we wouldn’t be allowed to talk about it right now.
But we’re certainly in discussion with a lot of parties.
With regard to the first part of the question I think we have seen in the last few years they’re really awakening of the industry to the fact that the producers are going to need long term intervention solutions to the deepwater subsea wells and that probably the solution needs to be more efficient than what a rig rate can offer.
And I think you’re starting to see people wake into that but I would caution that intervention is not a single market niche single intervention is actually multiple market niches.
A great deal of what drill rates are -- have been used for to intervene into well can be done more efficiently by specialization of the vessel.
And then you have to look at which segment of the intervention market you are talking about there.
You mentioned ESP that’s one of them you’ve got well construction activities which may take one time of platform you’ve got production enhancement which is another platform decommissioning you had another platform.
So I think you are going to see a lot of room for multiple niches and specialization that’s one thing that makes me pretty excited about where Helix is right now because we have the vessels of opportunity from Canyon.
We have the light intervention vessels in the North Sea.
We have the monohulls deploying risers we also have the semi-submersible.
So there is -- we’re more than just intervention company.
We are and intervention solution provider and we are the only one that provided across the board.
So I would I think which way the market goes and which way Helix goes will depend on the outcome of the discussion that I alluded to.
Okay great.
Thanks.
I appreciate that color.
And I have one follow-up.
I was just curious to know what was the motivation to increase the ownership of the Helix Producer to 100% and does it say anything about the potential for any additional floating production units similar to the Helix producer in the future? I’ll take that.
When the Helix produce for one was originally acquired that is the whole itself the vessel is acquired from a Danish shipping concern and there was always a quick call on the minority interest that is we have the right to call them minority interest and if we didn’t call the Danish ship owner had the right to put it to us we viewed that in availability will occur and decided just to clean it up and buy up the minority interest.
So that was the reason that was going to happen anyway because it was very likely that the partnered there was going to put the vessel to us and there was add a pre determine formulae at purchase price.
It is highly unlikely that we will see to expand our plug-in production system business answer to the second question.
Your next question comes from the line of Igor Levi - Morgan Stanley.
I'd like to focus a bit on the robotics segment where it appears you have grown visibility relative to what we've seen in prior years.
I was wondering if you could talk a bit about how visibility in this segment has changed over the last 12 months.
Well I’ll take that one.
Last year was a slow start to us in the first quarter and historically in the Gulf of Mexico and in the North Sea and Europe the first quarter now maybe December through the first quarter is a slow start because the weather nobody wants any work when the weather is bad offshore on these monohull type vessels.
So we have - we strove to improve our first quarter of this year by looking a little bit some other activities which way we find some work in the Middle East and things like that.
So last year in the first quarter we probably had three boats idle.
This year first quarter we had like boat and half and trying to idle half the time maybe and Deep Cygnus was idle quite a bit as well.
Going forward we’re seeing activity in the trenching side pick quite a bit.
You’ll notice what I’ve said earlier all four the existing trenchers that we have now been working this first quarter.
And we’re taking the delivery of the new trencher 1st of May and it goes straight to work on a spot but they’re going to pick up I think 160 days or so as well.
So we have a couple of spot those will pick it for the North Sea and potentially the same here in the Gulf of Mexico.
So we’re seeing a little bit increase in activity in vessel utilization as well as you might have noted that the ROV utilization increase as well it’s really about this first quarter and helps us all the second and third quarter pretty much I think as planned for budge maybe potential a little bit outside in the fourth quarter.
Great.
And the Grand Canyon II vessel that you're -- once you take delivery of that will there be enough work you think to keep that as an incremental sixth long-term vessel? Well it will be long-term vessel.
We’re taking it on chart for multiyear or so.
It will be a long-term vessel.
And our strategy at that part of business is all those vessels are charted vessels and they’re staggered in.
So we can get rid of a vessel or two vessels in any given year just about and we also as I mentioned have charter -- spot charter boats in for 60 to 180 days or something like that.
So we’ll bring that boat online when it comes out and as Tony mentioned I think probably mid-January or maybe little bit later.
And we’ll play the spot market and if we don’t need to pick the spot -- more boats than we want which would be Grand Canyon visit.
Our next question comes from the Martin Malloy.
Congratulations on the quarter.
First question how much was the deferred mobilization fee that you recognized in the first quarter? Malloy the impact earnings was about $0.05; however I wouldn’t try to isolate that because during course of any quarter we’ve got a lot of give and take for instance.
The 534 came on late and really didn’t contribute much during the quarter in terms of bottom line earnings.
But to answer your question and isolation specifically was about $0.05 but that kind of stuff happens all the time.
It was perhaps a much larger amount than we normally see for promote that carried over in terms of revenue recognition.
But like I said we have that kind of stuff that is a give and take every quarter.
Okay and then on the last quarterly conference call you mentioned you were evaluating potentially some investments in some additional IRS systems.
Anything new to report there? We have the fifth IRS system in construction right now with the components ordered for the sixth one and our aspirations are to build as many as ten of course that’s a multiyear aspiration.
Okay.
And the timing for the fifth and the sixth coming out? The fifth is -- correct me if I’m wrong here Cliff.
The fifth is targeting the -- that will go onto the Q5000 so it will be completed prior to the Q5000 going into service and then the IRS 6 will be going onto the Q7000 which comes out in 2016.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Gibney.
Inc</strong> Thanks good morning.
Just a couple quick ones for me.
Tony I was just curious on the other income within oil and gas it skewed a little bit higher sequentially even backing out some of the one times you called out.
I was just curious what drew up the change in that figure sequentially? Was there some other figure in that number? This is Erik.
When you backed out the items that we identified the oil and gas insurance recovery we do have couple of oil and gas fees but we’ll revenue from Wang property.
And we do have a couple of other obligations related to that where we receive annual fees here in the first quarter and that would cause a one-time lift every year.
Inc</strong> Got you okay that's helpful.
And just a follow-up on Marty's IRS related question.
You referenced expectations for strong utilization for the balance of the year for that asset.
What is strong utilization for that asset class? Is it above 80%? I'm just trying to understand what you really see in terms of utilization there? Yes I think you’re referring to IRS #2 which is on a third-party drilling rig.
All our intervention vessels the heavy usage vessels have one of their own but we have what we called IRS II which originally built to be a spare for our fleet but it got sucked up into use by one of our clients needed one of their rig.
And originally they were supposed to use that and get rid of that probably I think around March or April of this year.
Indications are they’re probably going to keep that all rest of this year.
So that’s at much over the budget utilization that we had for.
Your next question comes from the line of Trey Stolz.
Just to go back to Marty's question on 1Q impact may ask it a different way.
If we're -- somebody always asks every quarter what's the trend in rates? I think we know the answer generally speaking.
But if we look at 4Q to 1Q any help you can give us on isolating that how much of that increase in revenue was due to higher rate quarter over quarter and if there's any change in how that's trending over the next several quarters? I’ll take that Trey.
I think any rate increase Q4 to Q1 is generally negligible.
We do have inherent rate increases in our North Sea fleet when contracts rollover.
But I think that’s really the impact on earnings is going to be more effective by utilization than increase in rate but when you look at it in such a short time period as Q4 to Q1.
Understood.
Thanks.
And on the expense side OpEx side for Well Intervention assets with the deep-water rigs building up their labor forces and wondering if there's an impending labor shortage and how you view your daily OpEx potentially trending over the course of 2014 particularly second half of the year when more of the rigs are out working.
Yes I’ll answer that.
Yes there is a pressure on the labor for drilling rig intervention vessels across the fleet and more coming.
And that’s part of the reason why we got to do hold velocity there one is we owned some of our own vessels and the other is that we lease some for example the two going to Brazil and Skandi Constructors so those come with marine crew already on them.
And that’s where we’re seeing the most pressures on the marine side being the captain and the mates and engineers et cetera.
And we have our own internal little bit of training program going on as well.
So we’re going to see that just like everyone else is but it’s nothing that we can’t overt come.
Just let me add to that commentary and say that we’ve seen cost pressure for years now and we’re playing for it.
It’s really baked into our numbers so to speak.
Okay.
Labor should we assume into 40% to 50% range on a daily OpEx basis for an offshore asset like that? I’m trying to pick up top my head I’d better not answer.
But I’m afraid I’m going to be too far off Trey.
Like I’ve said we’ve been dealing with labor increases for the last four to five years.
It’s probably in more cost to 30% of our daily OpEx than annual Trey.
And for example in the UK when we have inflation increase on the labor side we have adjustment factors in our rates so we get it back on revenues.
That’s probably the answer.
We try to increase revenue like everybody is going to a treadmill there.
And we’re spread between three regions the Gulf of Mexico Europe and Brazil.
So we’re not seeing all those vessels in one area and drive an uptick area.
Are you having success with getting those clauses and contracts in the Gulf of Mexico with the Q4 or with the Q5 coming up? The Q5 has an inflation adjustment clause of its contract the Petróbras vessels do as well.
The Q4 doesn’t but we’ve been successful in pushing rates over the years on the Q4.
All right.
And one more when the Constructer started out -- started without the riser system and was operating at breakeven I guess initially.
With the H534 starting out is it operating at full possibility from the get-go here and 1Q the contribution there for the 40-some odd days? Or is there a ramp up on the operating income side as we go through a shakedown period? Yes the 534 in the first quarter tray of the 42 days that was producing revenues only 25 of those days were in full rate the constructive stand full rates right.
And use full rate going forward on the H534? Yes that’s our expectation.
(Operator Instructions) Your next question comes from the line of Michael Marino.
Tony forgive me for a nitpicky question.
I'm just trying to calibrate my model here and looking at the Well Intervention revenue guidance for this versus the last time you gave it it actually ticked down $5 million.
I'm just trying to figure out is that just an added dry dock in there somewhere? Or was there -- because presumably things are getting better there.
I'm just trying to calibrate my model a little bit for the Q1 results and how to think about it.
Yes well we give the quarterly guidance there was a delay in the 534 going to work so again without going back to the original guidance vessel by vessel I would have to off the top of my head say it was the 534.
Okay that's helpful.
And then just another modeling question looking out a couple years can you update us again on the CapEx runoff $400 million this year.
What does next year look like what does 2016 look like? And now I guess -- where do you get when you're fully deployed maybe from a maintenance level standpoint?  Owen you want to take that one up.
I can try right now although we don’t finalize our actual capital commitment until budgeting time for any following year but I would assume that you you could assume that our CapEx is going to remain at the 400 level least through 2016.
As far as the maintenance CapEx run we tend to look at dry docks you know dry docks are not fully capitalized a lot of this is repair and maintenance but we tend to look at it as cash out the door and it falls onto our CapEx project for cash management.
Looking at it that way I’d say our maintenance CapEx on an ongoing basis would be 50 million to 60 million.
And that’s on the fully deployed fleet with the 5000 and 7000 there?  I would think that right now I’d say it’s a little early for us to define it any closer than that.
(Operator Instructions) At this time there are no further questions.
Okay thanks for joining us today we very much appreciate your interest and participation and look forward to having you on our second quarter 2014 call in July thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and we ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Q2 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Afterwards we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded Tuesday July 22.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Terrence Jamerson.
Okay thank you.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today on our conference call for our second quarter 2014 earnings release.
Participating on this call for Helix today is Owen Kratz our CEO; Tony Tripodo CFO; Cliff Chamblee Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; Alisa Johnson our General Counsel; and Erik Staffeldt our Finance and Treasury Director.
Hopefully you all have had an opportunity to review our press release and related slide presentation released yesterday evening.
If you do not have a copy of these materials both can be accessed through the Investor Relations page on our website at www.helixesg.com.
The press release can be accessed under the Press Releases tab and the slide presentation can be accessed by clicking on today’s webcast icon.
Before we begin today’s prepared remarks Alisa Johnson will make a statement regarding forward-looking information.
During this conference call we anticipate making certain projections and forward-looking statements based on our current expectations.
All statements in this conference call and in the associated presentation other than statements of historical facts are forward-looking statements and are made under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Our actual future results may differ materially from our projections and forward-looking statements due to a number and variety of factors including those set forth in our Slide 2 and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2013.
Also during this call certain non-GAAP financial disclosures may be made.
In accordance with SEC rules the final slide of our presentation materials provide a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP measures to comparable GAAP financial measures.
The reconciliation along with this presentation the earnings press release our annual report and a replay of this broadcast are available on our website.
Owen? Good morning everyone.
We will start with Slide 5 which is a high level summary of Q2 results.
We followed very good first quarter with an even better Q2.
EBITDA increased to $109 million from $93 million in Q2 and when adjusting for the insurance recovery contribution in Q1 EBITDA excluding this item was actually $86 million and $74 million in Q2 of 2013.
EPS came in at $0.55 per share.
Revenues increased to $306 million in Q2 up from $254 million in the prior quarter.
Both the well intervention and the robotics business contributed nicely to this 20% sequential increase in revenues.
Of note our consolidated gross margins increased 600 basis points to 36% in Q2.
Turning to Slide 6 Q2 certainly benefited from having the H534 in the fleet for a full quarter as well as the Well Enhancer which spent much of January in the scheduled drydock.
You may recall the H534 did not enter service until the middle of quarter one.
The well intervention business realized a remarkable 100% utilization for our three North Sea based vessels during Q2.
We also realized a much higher level of revenue producing days for our rental IRS unit which as we have indicated in the past produces nice margins for us.
The robotics business also saw significant increase in revenues in Q2 some of which is seasonal and some of which can be attributed to a very active trenching market a business we certainly excel in.
Our robotics chartered vessel fleet realized 89% utilization in quarter one up from 80% in Q1.
It should be noted that we achieved a fair amount of utilization on spot market vessels to take advantage of the strong market environment for ROV services.
Cliff will address the robotics business in more detail later.
On the operational side we took delivery of the T1500 trencher mid-quarter and our newest trencher was immediately placed into service and performed well from the get-go.
There has all been significant blemish to Q1 results relates to the relatively high amount of bad debt reserves recorded during the quarter which were $5.2 million.
Our bottom line also benefited from a slightly lower tax rate at 23.3%.
Tony will discuss this in more detail later as well.
From a balance sheet perspective our cash and liquidity levels remained very strong.
Cash increased to $501 million and that along with the unused portion of our credit facility kept total liquidity at fairly consistent levels of approximately $1.1 billion.
Net debt dropped to $57 million and net debt to book cap also dropped to the 3% level at the end of the quarter.
I will now turn the call over to Cliff for an in-depth discussion of the contract and services results.
Okay thanks and good morning.
Yes we have had a good start to the first half of this year across the board Well Ops and Canyon Robotics business as well.
Across all segments $306 million in revenue with a 36% gross margin was a very strong quarter for us.
This comes after Q1 which is also a very good quarter.
I am pleased with the performance and the uptime on the H534 after entering the market in the middle of February.
And in fact all five of our well intervention vessels are operating well.
For the second quarter we achieved near full utilization of 98% uptime across the entire well intervention fleet.
Last quarter the Skandi Constructor completed us West Africa campaign and following a brief return for a project in the North Sea.
She is now working in a new market for us off the East Coast of Canada which is expected to continue until mid-August.
We are also bidding on work in the Gulf of Mexico for the Skandi Constructor which she would be available for after her scheduled drydock in the fourth quarter.
I expect to have a better update on this during the next quarter’s call.
On the Canyon Robotics side we had a record-breaking quarter in terms of number of vessels operated.
We actually operated 14 vessels periodically 9 spot vessels plus the 5 vessels we currently have under long-term charter with nearly 90% utilization.
In production facilities one of the production hubs Marco Polo was down for almost half of Q2 although the financial impact to us was marginal basically just a delay or small amount of equity and earnings moving to the right.
Beyond that we did not have any cost obligations for repairs needed to return the platform to service earlier this month.
So we move on to Slide 10 for Well Ops review.
In the Gulf of Mexico we are operating three assets two vessels Q4000 and the 534 plus a standalone Intervention Riser System IRS2.
The Q4000 would have been 100% utilized for the fourth consecutive quarter had it not been for a mandatory ABS inspection off location.
The H534 worked for Anadarko for most of the quarter and continues to perform well.
However the 534 IRS system did cost us approximately 7 days of lost revenue during the quarter.
The standalone IRS system number 2 was utilized for 86 days throughout Q2 24 of those days of which were standby rates.
We are currently back on hire for or at full rates for the system which we expect to continue through August at a minimum.
I also want to note that we had added – we have added an important support group in Helix for well intervention called the Subsea Intervention Group.
And I am pleased to say that we are moving into a new large warehouse facility to better support us and our clients’ needs.
Out of the Aberdeen office we are operating three vessels the Seawell the Well Enhancer and the Skandi Constructor which all achieved 100% utilization.
With the exception of the Skandi Constructor regulatory drydock and the start of the Seawell’s life extension upgrade in December we expect all three vessels to remain busy for the remainder of the year.
Next on the robotics as Owen mentioned earlier Canyon had a very busy quarter.
Revenues were up sequentially over last quarter due to high activity levels across all three of our operating regions despite two dry docks during Q2.
In Europe and West Africa we are in the midst of a strong trenching season and thus have been able to take advantage of the market with robust utilization of our trenching fleet including our newest trencher the T1500 which is utilized – which was utilized over 80% after being placed into service in May.
In addition to trenching the region managed several ROV services projects with the Deep Cygnus and Grand Canyon as well as the significant walk to work project utilizing the REM installer.
We also took on two short-term charter vessels in UK which remain on trenching projects in the third quarter to accomplish all the work at hand.
In the Gulf of Mexico we had utilized seven different vessels of opportunity for various times during the quarter to perform.
ROV services scopes.
And we expect to reposition the REM installer to the region in late Q3 as our project capabilities are highly regarded and demand at the moment.
While the Olympic Canyon was in drydock for a substantial portion of the quarter the APAC region remained busy on ROV services for a die globally including Murphy in Malaysia Subsea 7 and Reliance in India.
In addition you may recall that in May we announce the award of a long-term ROV services contract with McDermott.
It’s a three-year contract plus options to provide ROVs and tooling and personnel onboard McDermott’s support vessels similar to our ongoing agreement with Technip which we won in 2012.
We ordered 5 new ROV systems during the quarter and took delivery up to meet the demands from this contract as well as general growth in our ROV core services business.
The McDermott contract bolsters our baseline business and is a testament to Canyon’s reputation in the industry.
So moving on to Slide 12 I will leave this slide detailing vessel utilization for your vessels.
And with that I will turn the call over to Erik.
Thanks Cliff and good morning.
Please turn to Slide 14.
Slide 14 provides an illustration of our debt instrument maturity profile at June 30.
Debt reduction during the quarter was a result of the required quarterly payments of our term loan.
Moving on to Slide 15 we provide some update on our year end growth and net debt levels historically and at June 30.
We continue to maintain a strong liquidity position with approximately $1.1 billion of liquidity.
Our net debt level was approximately $57 million remaining fairly constant quarter-over-quarter.
Year-to-date operating cash flow increased to $140 billion driven by our strong operating results.
We have used cash from operations to fund $97 million of capital expenditures $10 million of debt repayments and $7 million of stock repurchases.
Our cash position has increased $23 million year-to-date.
However we expect to make two milestone related shipyard payments during Q3 for the Q5000.
At quarter end our net debt to book capitalization ratio was a conservative 3%.
Tony? Thank you Erik.
Let me move straight to Slide 17 which presents our updated 2014 guidance.
With the first half of the year producing $202 million of EBITDA we now expect the full year 2014 to be better than we have previously guided.
Aside from the strong first half the strong demand and high backlog for our Well Intervention business gives us an expectation that we will exceed our previous guidance of $350 million of EBITDA for the full year.
And we are now suggesting EBITDA for the full year will be greater than $360 million.
We expect quarter three to be consistent or better than quarter two absent any operational hiccups.
In quarter four we expect to see the typical seasonal drop off in the robotics business.
And as we have previously stated both the Seawell and the Skandi Constructor are scheduled to enter dry dock in the quarter.
Thus we expect our results in quarter four to fall from quarter two quarter three levels.
Following suit we have tweaked our EPS guidance upward a bit and are now providing $1.65 to $1.75 range dependent upon our tax rate.
We are still guiding our full year tax rate somewhere between 25% and 30%.
We did see a 23% tax rate in Q2 but that was the result of settling some prior year tax returns that allowed us to release some tax reserves that were setup for those years under audit.
However we still feel 25% to 30% is a good go forward range based on our current geographic mix of earnings.
On to Slide 18 Slide 18 outlines the backlog visibility for our Well Intervention fleet.
Not much has changed from a quarter ago so we will leave the specifics outlined in this slide for your reference.
Slide 19 outlines near-term outlook for our robotics business.
Again the trenching business has materialized nicely for us this year.
And we have been able to absorb the additional capacity with the T1500 entering the fleet in May.
With Grand Canyon II and III slated to enter the fleet in 2015 we have decided to return the Olympic Triton to its vessel owner sometime in quarter three.
The timing on this works well with typical seasonal downturn that we see in the robotics business in our historically strong North Sea market.
We are forecasting on Slide 20 we are forecasting total CapEx spend for 2014 of $375 million which is slightly down from the $400 million we have previously guided.
Not really much to say about this other than spending for certain projects slipping to the right.
As you can see from the photograph on Slide 4 the Q5000 is progressing in Singapore as she is now wet as they say in the shipyard business we are still expecting that Q1 2015 delivery for the Q5000 and have additional note we have cut first deal on the Q7000 in Singapore as well.
I will skip slides 21 through 24 and leave them for your reference.
And at this time I will turn the call over to Owen for closing remarks.
Owen? Thanks Tony.
Q1 was good but Q2 was even better.
Revenues were up 32% year-over-year for the second quarter and EBITDA was up by 47%.
These results have exceeded our own expectations.
We always assume that there will be a certain level of operational incidents when setting expectations.
However we managed to avoid any major incidents that impacted our results to any serious degree.
Looking forward we do expect another strong quarter in Q3.
However we do have upcoming dry docks with Seawell and Skandi Constructor in Q4 with the Seawell being on an extended period to undergo a life extension upgrade.
Thus I would caution investors to take the first half of the year – not to take the first half and extrapolate the results for the second half.
We have increased annual guidance to be greater than $360 million but there is obviously an opportunity to beat $360 million.
We do have the headwinds of the dry docks in Q4.
The more important note to take away from this quarter’s results is that the growth plan that we previously outlined is in progress and its going well.
As good as all this is we are still hearing expressions of concern over rig rates and the potential impact to our business model.
We don’t feel that it’s our place to question anything that’s been written by others on softening rig rates.
Our own position continues to be that if rig rates do soften they will have little near term impact on our business and growth path.
First much of our well intervention fleet has contracted backlog with rates substantially set for the next few years.
Second we planed our growth based on direct discussions with our clients.
We have undertaken substantial addition of new assets but not on a pure speculative basis.
We still have four major marine assets to be delivered over 2015 and 2016 but of those three have long-term committed contracts.
We are in active discussions with the number of customers for the Q7000 utilization.
And it is my expectation that we should be able to secure backlog to this vessel sometime this year.
You may also have noticed that we have not renewed the charter on one of our vessels in the ROV fleet as has been mentioned.
This should not be confused with being a sign of any weaker expectations for robotics it’s just that we are taking delivery of two newbuild ROV vessels during the period of time that we would have had to renew the expiring charter for.
And actually already we are increasing the size of the ROV fleet by net one vessel while also being able to downsize during the upcoming potentially slower winter season.
We are also confident in our ability to secure this class of vessel in the open market vessels of opportunity.
Our market outlook for both well ops and robotics is undiminished.
The Q5 Q7 Siem Helix 1 and Siem Helix 2 newbuild projects are going well so far.
The balance sheet is strong and it’s my belief that Helix credibility within our market continues to grow.
And I currently believe that Helix will continue to deliver on the opportunities the market is making available to us.
And with that I will be happy to take any questions now.
Operator? Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Jim Rollyson (Raymond James &amp; Associates).
Good morning Owen.
Good morning Jim.
I guess Owen just paraphrasing what I think I heard you say so it sounds like ROV strength that you saw in 2Q continues through 3Q or most of 3Q and then seasonally falls off.
And from an earnings and EBITDA guidance I guess the implication for your new range is that 4Q because of the seasonality and the drydocking kind of compounded on top of that brings your 4Q probably as your lowest quarter of the year.
Did I hear that right basically? Yes Jim.
This is Tony.
We expect the fourth quarter to be the lowest quarter this year for the factors that you just mentioned.
Okay.
Just making sure I heard that right when we look at the step up in the robotics business revenues you were in the first quarter $88 million last year same quarter $88 million almost $120 million how much of that is just the market picking up versus maybe your new alliance with McDermott just trying to get a sense of as we think about this going forward beyond just the third quarter into next year how sustainable should we think about that kind of run rate? Yes.
Well I think as Owen mentioned we have had a really good trenching season this year on all the trenching assets that we had.
We have added a new trencher the T1500 went straight into service and has been working virtually everyday since it went into service in May.
So that’s been the one big drivers of trenching market has been up this year compared to last year.
And we have also had good utilization on the vessels where last year in the first quarter we have really struggled on utilization in the winter on those vessels.
Okay Tony any color on SG&amp;A took a big step up and maybe what we should think about that for going forward? Yes sure.
I think there were really two factors that affected SG&amp;A in quarter two.
One was we mentioned that we booked a little bit over $5 million of bad debt reserves during the quarter that hit the SG&amp;A line.
And because we have a stock compensation plan that will vary in expense with our stock price fluctuation the fact that our stock price went up during quarter two also impacted the SG&amp;A line as we have to book more stock compensation expense.
Hopefully in the future we are going to see the kind of bad debt reserves that we booked going forward.
So I would expect SG&amp;A to come down from quarter two.
We have always guided 8% to 10% range for SG&amp;A.
And I still think that’s a pretty good range going forward.
Okay great.
And the last one Owen any color on maybe the update on the timing of when you guys will find out about the Shell tender for the Gulf of Mexico for your potential Q6000? The tender is still in process.
We are still in the mix.
We have had some recent meetings but now that the process is just going to have to play out at shells pace.
Great.
Good quarter guys.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeffrey Campbell (Tuohy Brothers).
Good morning.
First I want to ask a question referring to the Canyon McDermott contract and also the earlier Technip contract.
If there is other opportunities like that out there is there a certain percentage of growth services that you are targeting I would like to see locked up in longer term contracts? Well I guess the reality we’d like to have all locked up in long-term contracts provided those the long-term contract rates are what we’d expect.
But we have always kind of been more of a spot market player on the construction side of the things and we – I think we mentioned last quarter we are trying to focus a little bit more on longer term contract.
So this is our second real stab at longer term loans.
The other long-term contracts that really exist outside that is the drilling side of it which we – hasn’t been a market for us.
Okay.
I also said I don’t know that it’s an either/or situation though but in the case of Technip and McDermott upon award of those we are fortunate enough to have the balance sheet strength that allows us to go out and immediately add to our fleet.
So they are both growth adding contracts.
So I don’t know that it’s a certain percentage that we are targeting it’s just additional work on top of what we already do historically.
Okay well that’s interesting color.
If I could I will ask one more question a little bit more high level but I think you guys may have a unique viewpoint on this.
Yesterday FMC announced that they are in a project with four major offshore operators to develop the new generation of high temperature high pressure subsea installations and they added the additional expectation of further standardization of materials process is interfaces.
Broadly to what degree do you find subsea production equipment already standardized and how much more do you think it can be standardized and overall is this trend positive for Helix over time? That’s a lot.
I will make it short.
Is standardization good? I’d say one of the biggest challenges facing not only ourselves but the equipment manufacturers and everybody is the lack of standardization.
I think there has been a certain amount of movement towards it but I personally might view is that there is a long ways to go before there is – I don’t think you could even remotely call the industry standardized on subsea equipment these days.
The implications to us are – it’s not that significant we are fortunate enough to have been working on all of the equipments so we have all those necessary crossovers and the experience with all the manufacturers’ equipment.
So the lack of standardization I guess actually gives us a slight competitive advantage over others wishing to get into the intervention market.
Having said that the industry is moving to try and standardize more.
This is an area of probably the greatest pioneering area in our industry right now.
So it also means that we have to dedicate that’s one reason why we formed the Subsea Intervention Group so that we could have a dedicated group to developing new innovative ways forward on working with some of these moves in modifying the subsea equipment.
And of course we work closely with the service companies.
Again we are a deployment of specialist company.
So it’s a matter of staying on top of what the service companies are doing and the manufacturers are doing and then maximizing our delivery process for the greatest efficiency.
That’s basically what we focus on.
Okay great.
Well that’s great color.
I appreciate it.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) The next question comes from the line of Martin Malloy (Johnson Rice).
Congratulations on the strong quarter.
Thank you.
Could you give us an update in terms of how you are looking at the market for additional IRS systems that you might rent or charter out? I think I have said in the past that this is an area that I consider – I have mentioned one of the things that we are going to be evolving to is creating a greater service line around our heavy marine assets.
And this is one area that I do think has a lot of legs and one that we are focused on.
We are looking at the best way forward to provide more systems on a rental basis and support those systems with the maintenance and the personnel and everything.
So I do think there is room for us to add it’s just a long process to build one of these things.
And right now we are sort of – all of our resources are committed to building the systems necessary to fit our vessels.
So as time and resources allow we do have the intention to build additional rental units.
Okay.
And then the production assets that you all have I am just looking at the multiples the MLPs are trading for these days is there – is it – is there any thought towards perhaps monetizing those assets at this point? Marty I will say this where we fully entertained any offers that were legitimate and have reasonable value.
Again we all get asked this question often this is a business line that produces a healthy amount of free cash flow with very little management attention required.
So it’s nice mailbox money so to speak.
On the other hand we don’t consider it a core business.
So if somebody wanted to step forward and offer us real value for it I think we would have to entertain it that hadn’t happened yet.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Ole Slorer (Morgan Stanley).
Thank you very much.
Just back to the robotics business again and the vessels ROV support vessels the revenue beat in the quarter at least versus what we have been modeling was pretty substantial about 30%.
And looking at your utilization numbers I mean they did have nice upticks sequentially 73% to 78% and 80% to 89% but was this the main driver or was it that of the business is changing with this heavier trenching assets entering the fleet because I can’t quite guess there assuming that there is no real sort of quarter-on-quarter pricing I can’t quite get to the blowout number based just on the tweaking in the utilization on the same store basis? Yes.
Well it was we have had a good season in trenching market and we added another trencher the T1500 we mentioned to us.
So we had exceptionally actually good trenching these.
And we have had a good run of utilization on the high trencher as well so that’s part of it.
The other part of it that we had several spot market vessels as I mentioned especially in the Gulf of Mexico where we don’t have any cost for them when they are idle that these vessels are all outside for us because we only get them when we have work for them we don’t have any work for them.
So that’s the two drivers I think.
That’s 161 days you haven’t given the number like that before I think so could you give us some color on whether how big or a small number that is compared to what would be a normal run rate? Well it’s a pretty big number for a spot vessel because we haven’t had the vessel in the Gulf we have had our assets tied up for most part over in the North Sea and in West Africa and Middle East regions.
So it’s driven the spot costs were mainly driven by the Gulf of Mexico not having a vessel here.
And we do plan to bring a vessel back over here in the third quarter and stall her back over here.
And we will supplement that with spot vessels as the need requires.
So what’s changed in your business is basically the additions sequentially of the heavy transfers and on the other hand you have this pick up in spot activity how did those two I am – so I am thinking about what’s kind of sustainable and what might be the exceptionally and usually strong for this quarter can talk a little bit on that? Yes.
Well as Tony said our fourth quarter is usually our weakest quarter and in the ROV side of it fourth quarter and first quarters has lot more seasonable – seasonal than the well intervention business.
So we do expect to not sustain second and third quarters I think will be higher than what the fourth and the first quarter of next year.
Okay.
Just one more question on the Q7000 could you just remind us from an operating capability where is this vessel capable of operating or where is not capable of operating? Well it’s basically capable of operating worldwide but some of the unique designs that we put into it were setup for Western Shetlands and North Sea but it can work worldwide.
Including Norway? Yes.
Okay.
And okay thanks for that.
And finally when are you going to sort of embrace this standardization concept and they kickoff the 6 000? I am sorry say that again.
There is a question earlier on on standardization as to just you can help the industry by getting going on the 6 000 what would the likely timeline be? We have the Q6000 fully engineered and ready to kickoff but that the timing of that is – and the balance sheet can certainly take the addition of the new asset but the timing of that is totally market dependent on discussions with the clients and the upcoming demand.
And Owen back to this debate again on idle DP rigs versus your specialized vessels do you have any further data points as of late discussions other examples maybe you can kind of help shed some lights on your latest thoughts as you have anything kind of mark-to-market on that? I will be honest with you.
We don’t – we see what’s written by the analysts and we see some data points from our perspective it’s been a little mixed.
You have seen some renewals at higher rates and some at lower rates.
We haven’t seen any rates that we would consider alarming.
But then again that’s assuming that they were going to encroach in our market.
But I think our consistent position has been that no matter what the rigs do the clients are now in the phase of our industry’s growth where they are looking for a long-term solution for an ever increasing amount of low intervention work.
And I think that sort of precludes the clients looking first at a cyclical softening of rig rates as the ultimate long-term solution.
So I really don’t – I think it’s a misconception on the investment community’s part and comparing well intervention with drilling market.
It’s only – it’s the comparison – it’s understandable because it has been drilling rigs that have historically done the well intervention work but the well intervention work historically has been a fraction of what the well intervention work is going to be going forward.
And I think the market is truly diverging and the well intervention and drilling are two separate markets that really defy comparison.
I agree with you.
And I mean if you look at that contract in Brazil which I found particularly interesting in that regard.
Because in Brazil Petrobras have historically been a user of drilling rigs for well intervention and it shows a newbuild contract with you guys at the same time as rigs like the Ensco 7500s are with DP capability stack down there.
So I mean that tells an interesting signal I think? Well I think that’s only part of the picture though.
If you look at Petrobras historically Petrobras is actually one of the first pioneering producers to actually dedicate vessels to doing work over and intervention only.
If you go back almost I guess over a decade now they had the Amethyst originally and then they had to build series of the mega semi-submersibles.
All of those have been dedicated to work over and intervention primarily on the shelf.
What’s happening now is that with the Tupi field in the pre-salt they are now looking at their deepwater future intervention needs and that reflects the new contracts.
Okay thanks.
That’s all.
Sure.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Marino (Stephens Inc.).
Thanks.
Good morning.
Just wanted to get some color get to make sure I understand things correctly on kind of next year if you will.
Any significant dry-docks other than the Seawell extension project which I believe spills over well into ‘15.
I mean is the Well Enhancer the H534 Q4000 are those all kind of more normal? Yes.
The Seawell goes into drydock probably mid-December and is scheduled to be in for about 4 months.
And then later in the year which we haven’t scheduled we have got another - we had to bring the Q4000 out of service as well for it won’t be as long it’s like maybe two or three weeks.
Okay.
And then on the Q5000 you mentioned delivery still on-time Q1 delivery but what does that mean in terms of revenue generation does that mean Q3 revenue generation or is there acceptance testing period that you need to go through? I will answer that.
The scheduled delivery time that we – I will keep talking about is delivery date from the shipyard where we take control of the vessel.
From there we still have some run up activities plus a delivery schedule of the vessel from Singapore to the Gulf of Mexico.
So as far as revenue generation that would not occur until Q3.
Okay.
And just one final one kind of in terms of the Q – potential Q6000 would you move forward on that without a contract on the Q7000? It depends on what day you ask me.
I don’t mean to be facetious.
The market conditions are changing there is pretty – well I will be transparent on this.
The shell contract is a big event for us.
I think it’s important to just watch the market demand.
We have ongoing dialogue with a number of producers right now that I think are still uncertain enough now that it wouldn’t warrant pulling the trigger.
Now as I have said in the past we did pull the trigger on the Q5000 the Q7000 based on the discussions.
Right now I think the market we don’t see – before there was pretty much a no-brainer on the regions we were looking at.
Right now I would say for the Q6000 we need some resolution to certain issues in the marketplace before we would be willing to pull the trigger on the Q6000.
Unless of course somebody stepped up and give us the full contract and then all bets were off.
When you talk about certain – it would be a certain – is there a certain market that you want to see more acceptance in or I mean is that what you are alluding to? Yes.
I think there is a number of markets that have we have identified future needs.
We have entered into discussions with the clients about those needs.
I think it’s obvious that it’s going to happen but it’s probably not developed to the stage yet where it warrants pulling the trigger on cutting steel because we are at the point of the design on the Q6000 where we could immediately start cutting steel.
So it’s a matter of just waiting for the market demand to give us the indication that there is a fairly certain possibility of a full contract for.
Since you brought it up and if I would asked you three months ago do you feel better about it today than you did three months ago? I am about the same place.
I think our outlook is that the market is probably going to something like 20 vessel market by 2018.
And I think targeting anything more than 50% of the market is starting to flirt with utilization risk.
We have – once the current builds are in-service we will be up to 9 vessels.
That gives us room for one additional under the guideline.
And I think that’s where I have been for a while.
But between now and 2018 there is no reason to be in a rush over it.
And I think it’s proven to just be now that we have established a clear dominance in the growth of the company and the credibility in the market.
It probably is prudent to wait for a little more certainty before pulling the trigger on the last vessel here.
Got it.
Makes sense.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of William (indiscernible).
Good morning everyone.
Congrats on the good quarter.
Thank you.
What is the plan for the Skandi Constructor after it completes its Canadian campaign and dry dock does it now have a contract extending into 2015 as well? After it’s finished in Canada it’s got to back to the UK for some committed project work that we have got there.
And then as mentioned it’s got a drydock.
And then it’s fairly open for a few months and then it’s got more committed work in the North Sea but we do have a open slot we are right now and we are in negotiations with a client to take that slot as we speak.
Alright.
That’s basically first quarter of next year.
Okay thank you.
Can I get some color on the decision on moving the REM installer to the Gulf of Mexico and the opportunities that you see there? Yes.
I guess we haven’t had a permanent vessel here in several months and so we have been using these spot vessels that we have been pretty successfully using these spot vessels but we have also had to turn down quite a bit of work and we got some clients asking us for work that they would prefer to use us and it’s just a matter of demand.
We need a vessel.
And that’s the first one it’s going to break lose and we can bring back.
Okay.
For the Grand Canyon T1200 and the I-Trencher what was the reason for the reduction in term? Say that again.
Of the reduction in firm I noticed that it reduced terms through 2015 last quarter in Q2 2015 that was in the presentation this quarter.
I am not following your question the term of what now? For the Grand Canyon that the T1200 in the I-Trencher.
Last quarter you all said it was had a contract through 2015 and then this quarter you also had the contract through Q2 2015 so… Okay.
Yes it’s frame agreements that we have through ’15 but that’s not a consistent steady work haul on the crew I think it’s what you are asking or referring to.
Okay.
So it still has visibility through 2015 it just – it wasn’t firmed up through 2015.
Yes.
There is frame agreements to do work for multiple clients through 2015 but it’s a not a steady utilization for those clients all the way through.
So we break off and go do other work and come back to it.
Okay.
Last one for the ROV contract with McDermott you expected this contract to begin mid-2014.
Can we just give an update of the timing and the number of ROVs and then any other color you’d like to provide on that.
Yes it’s just adding vessels.
I mean ROVs as they – requires them.
So I think right now I think we have got four vessel – four ROVs on two different vessels and we will be adding more later this year and potentially more into next year as well.
Okay I appreciate the color.
Thank you guys.
I am sorry.
You do have a follow-on question from the line of (indiscernible).
I know yes just with regards to the guidance that you did gave did you say that sorry the third quarter will be stronger than the second but the fourth quarter will be the weakest for the quarters.
I am just trying to figure out what was actually said.
We expect the third quarter to be strong similar to quarter two and quarter four to be the weakest quarter of the year.
Okay I got it.
Thank you.
And there is no further audio questions at this time.
Okay.
Well everyone thanks for joining us today.
We very much appreciate your interest and participation and look forward to having you on our third quarter 2014 call in October.
Thank you.
Thank you for joining today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
And welcome to the Helix Energy Solutions Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Afterwards we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this conference is being recorded today Tuesday October 21 2014.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Terrence Jamerson Director of Finance and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today for our conference call on our Q3 2014 earnings release.
Participating on this call for Helix today is Owen Kratz our CEO; Tony Tripodo CFO; Alisa Johnson our General Counsel; and Erik Staffeldt our Finance and Treasury Director.
Cliff Chamblee our Chief Operating Officer is off on a well-deserved vacation so I’ll serve in his place to provide the operational update.
Hopefully you all have had an opportunity to review our press release and related slide presentation released last night.
If you do not have a copy of these materials both can be accessed through the Investor Relations page on our website at www.helixesg.com.
The press release can be accessed under the Press Releases tab and the slide presentation can be accessed by clicking on today’s webcast icon.
Before we begin our prepared remarks Alisa Johnson will make a statement regarding forward-looking information.
During this conference call we anticipate making certain projections and forward-looking statements based on our current expectations.
All statements in this call or in the associated presentation other than statements of historical facts are forward-looking statements that are made under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Our actual future results may differ materially from our projections and forward-looking statements due to a number and variety of factors including those set forth in our slide 2 and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2013.
Also during this call certain non-GAAP financial disclosures may be made.
In accordance with SEC rules the final slide of our presentation material provides a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP measures to comparable GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation along with this presentation the earnings press release our annual report and a replay of this broadcast are available on our website.
Owen? Good morning everyone.
Moving right over to slide five which is a high level summary of Q3 results I have to say we are very pleased with Q3 results.
The $137 million of EBITDA and $0.71 of earnings per share represents a significant increase over a very good Q2 which came at a $109 million of EBITDA and $0.55 per share of EPS.
Revenues increased to $341 million in Q3 up from $306 million in the prior quarter.
Both the well intervention and the robotics business contributed to the 12% sequential increase in revenues.
I believe Q3 represents good results for both well intervention and robotics businesses and demonstrates the earnings ability of our existing assets and service stays at high levels of demand and utilization.
Turning to slide six high utilization of our well intervention fleet at 97% in the third quarter continues to be a major factor in our strong operating results.
In addition our financial results were bolstered by a high revenue project performed by the Skandi Constructor off Canada.
The combination of these two factors generated unusually high gross profit margins at 41% for Q3.
The robotics business turned its best result since the Canyon business was acquired by Helix in the early 2000.
90% utilization of the long-term chartered fleet combined with a high level of trenching activity plus a 197 days as spot vessel utilization were the key factors in producing these strong results.
As we previously indicated we normally expect Q3 to be our best quarter for robotics due to milder weather conditions in the North Sea.
On to slide seven from a balance sheet perspective our cash and liquidity levels continue to remain very strong.
Cash increased to $547 million and that along with the unused portion of our credit facility kept total liquidity at a fairly consistent level of approximately $1.1 billion.
Net debt at quarter end decreased and was roughly zero.
I will now turn the call over to Terrence for an in-depth discussion of our contracting service results.
Terrence.
As Owen said Q3 was another great quarter for Helix putting us in a strong position for 2014.
Especially given the fact that historically given that Q4 has been our weaker quarter compared to the previous Q2 and Q3.
This year should be no different given the fact that two of our vessels were in a drydock this quarter which I will touch on in the upcoming slide.
Through the first nine months of the year we should expect revenues and profits to be higher compared to the same period in 2013 due to the addition of the H534 and also having a full three quarters of the Skandi Constructor.
However the business units have done a great job of also improving margins each quarter this year as well as year-to-date 2014 versus last year.
As Owen alluded to earlier in his opening remarks the two main catalysts being one sustained levels of high utilization across the entire fleet as well as across the greater number of assets and two successful well interventions performed by the Skandi Constructor.
This quarter she wrapped up a job in Canada and if you recall at the beginning of the year she finished up the job down in West Africa.
Also our production facilities continue to produce a consistent return.
For the year this business has yielded on average approximately $24 million in revenue each quarter with roughly 50% profit margins.
Moving on to slide 10 in the Gulf of Mexico we have had high utilization on both of our vessels and the standalone IRS unit throughout the year.
For Q3 the Q4000 had another strong quarter with 89% utilization.
She was down approximately 10 days near the end of July for thruster repairs.
We continue to be pleased with the performance of the H534 since she was placed in service back in mid-February.
For the quarter the vessel was fully utilized and the vessel has been on hire every day since entering the Gulf.
IRS number 2 was also on hire for the entire quarter and has seen an increase in operating days each quarter this year.
Entering Q4 we expect strong utilization from all three of these assets.
Moving over to our North Sea fleet not much difference in utilization levels of this asset base versus our assets in the Gulf of Mexico.
For Q3 the Seawell Well Enhancer and Skandi Constructor had a combined utilization of 99%.
The Skandi completed her first well intervention project in Canadian waters in mid-August.
She then mobilized back to the North Sea where she will enter drydock in early November for approximately 30 days.
We also have the Seawell entering drydock in early December of this year.
This vessel is not expected to be placed back into service until early Q2 of 2015 as she undergoes a major refit project.
Next going into robotics for this business we have seen an increase in both utilization and gross margin across our charter vessel fleet and robotics assets in each quarter of 2014.
In Q3 we achieved 90% utilization off of our chartered vessel fleet which included a 197 days from spot vessels.
That’s 36 more than what we saw in Q2.
In our North Sea market we continue to benefit from a strong trenching season.
We utilized four of our five trenchers throughout the quarter on both oil and gas and wind farm projects.
The REM Installer which is also North Sea based concluded a seven month walk-to-work project during the quarter and is now currently en route to our Gulf of Mexico region to meet existing demand.
The vessel is scheduled to arrive here later this week.
In the past we’ve met increase in demand in the Gulf with spot vessels throughout all of 2014 and as well as in 2013.
In our Asia Pacific region the Olympic Canyon continues on its ROV services project offshore in India.
Before moving on I also want to point out that we returned the Olympic Triton back to the vessel owner in September this quarter.
This vessel had been in our fleet since late 2007.
This now puts us down one vessel to four long-term chartered vessels for the remainder of the year and until the Grand Kenyan II and III enter the fleet in early Q1 and Q2 of 2015 respectively.
Moving on to slide 12 I’ll leave this slide detailing vessel utilization for your reference and with that I will turn it over to Erik for key balance sheet metrics.
Thanks Terrence and good morning.
Please turn to slide 14.
Slide 14 provides an illustration of our debt mature instrument maturity profile at September 30th.
Debt reduction during the quarter was a result of the required quarterly payments of our term loan and the semi-annual payments of our MARAD debt.
Moving on to slide 15 it provides an update of our year end gross and net debt levels historically and at September 30th.
We continue to maintain a strong liquidity position with approximately [1.1 billion] of liquidity.
Our net debt level was approximately [$7 million] decreasing quarter-over-quarter.
Our year-to-date operating cash flow increased to $302 million driven by our strong operating results.
We have used cash from operations to fund $208 million of capital expenditures $70 million of debt repayments and $8.5 million of stock repurchases.
Our cash position has increased by $68 million year-to-date.
At quarter end our net debt-to-book capitalization ratio was less than 1%.
I will turn the call over to Tony for a discussion on our 2014 outlook Tony? Thanks Erik.
Let me move straight to slide 17 which presents our updated 2014 guidance.
Given the much stronger than expected year-to-date results we now expect the full year 2014 to be better than we previously guided and lift our full year EBITDA level to greater than or equal to $390 million from our previous number of $360.
With EPS now at somewhere between a $1.85 to a $1.95 I think it’s fair to say that we believe there is more upside to this number than downside.
Of particular note we’re now forecasting a top line revenue growth of approximately 50% to the Well Intervention business and 23% in the robotics business.
As previously suggested the fourth quarter will be a different story than Q3.
As we’ve mentioned earlier both Skandi Constructor and the Seawell have drydocks during quarter four with the Seawell commencing an extended drydock for a major refurbishment that will extend for some 90 plus days in 2015.
Furthermore the robotics business should experience its normal seasonal drop off and the large amount of spot market work we saw in quarters two and three is expected to decline in Q4.
Again this is a normal weather-driven seasonal dip for the robotics business due to our strong market presence in the North Sea.
Furthermore we have reduced our long-term charter fleet in the robotics business from five to four with the termination of Olympic Triton charter at the end of quarter three.
This has been planned for quite some time now in anticipation of both the Grand Canyon II and the Grand Canyon III entering the fleet in 2015 plus our desire to reduce capacity in the usual seasonal low winter months.
Moving over to slide 20 slide 20 discusses a broad view of Helix’s business outlook beyond 2014.
For our well intervention business we expect Gulf of Mexico demand to remain strong in 2015 and beyond.
Both the Q4 in the H534 have healthy amounts of backlog in 2015.
We could see a return to lower market activity in the winter months in the North Sea Owen will discuss this more a bit later.
That being said the Well Enhancer is expected to sail to the Mediterranean in December and remain there for a portion of the winter months.
Drydocks will be a factor in 2015.
At the end the Seawell is forecast to be out of service for the first quarter undergoing a major upgrade both the Q4 and H534 have scheduled regulatory drydocks in 2015.
On the robotic side we're currently forecasting another strong year for Canyon coming off a record year in 2014.
Let me move over to slide 21 and discuss CapEx.
We're forecasting full year’s CapEx of approximately $385 million.
This is up from the $375 million we previously forecasted as we're putting out some more ROV units in the water to capture market opportunities.
Of the $385 million of CapEx $305 million represents growth capital associated with the Q5 to Q7 the two [inaudible] vessels slated for Brazil along with the additional ROV unites.
I'll skip slides 22 through 24 and leave them for your reference and tern the call over to Owen for closing remarks.
Owen.
Thanks Tony.
Previously I suggested that the company strategic plans call for us to grow our EBITDA on an average 20% per year through 2016.
The updated forecast for 2014 is for an increase in revenues of 38% an increase of EBITDA of 30% and an improvement in EPS of 77% to 87% year-over-year.
Therefore we're off to a good start to realization of our long-term growth objectives.
Q2 was very strong and Q3 was even stronger.
This was primarily due to the tremendous efforts and the skill of our operating personnel.
In 2014 we benefited from the addition of the H534 being added to the fleet a strong winter level of work for the North Sea business a much improved operating plan and execution from our robotics team and generally strong performance from all of our groups.
Going in to each year our guidance takes into account the fact that there is always operating and market variables that create challenges in realizing our full earnings potential.
While the 2014 results are exceeding the expectations reflected in our initial guidance we believe that these results especially the Q3 results are indicative of the earnings potential from our existing assets and services.
However before extrapolating too much from these Q3 results we need to refocus the perspective on the long-term growth plan.
Heading into Q4 we've scheduled drydocks as has been mentioned for the Skandi Constructor and the Seawell.
We're also anticipating slower activity in the North Sea versus last winter.
I believe this has less to do with any macro issues and is more of a result of producers scaling back activity in reaction to last winter.
Compared to this last winter the past few years have seen relatively mild winters in the North Sea.
Therefore producers scheduled more well intervention work in the winter of 2014 that they may have been more comfortable with in the past.
However this past winter saw a return to a more normal or you can say harsh winter and our customers incurred significant cost as a result of the weather.
As a result we expect that our customers will take a more conservative approach to scheduling well intervention work this winter in the North Sea as a reaction to last winter’s weather conditions.
This effect could be somewhat offset by the success that our North Sea group has had -- has achieved in expanding the geographic range of operations to now include Canada the [inaudible] and Africa.
The Seawell will also be out of service for an extended period undergoing a midlife refurbishment and upgrade.
We'll have regulatory required drydocks for the Q4000 as well as the H534.
On the other hand construction of the Q5000 is progressing and we're expecting this asset to enter service in early Q3 of 2015.
While we're still in the midst of our 2015 budgeting process and this process is not yet complete it would be premature for us to provide more granular guidance for the 2015 at this time.
However we can say the following.
First don’t expect the kind of year over year growth as seen from 2013 to 2014.
The previously mentioned factors will serve as headwinds in 2015.
Second while our financial results may not necessarily be at the same trajectory that we saw in 2014 our growth strategy is firmly intact and given the assets under construction and combined with the backlog in hand we have the foundation for achieving the long-term growth goals.
Third our balance sheet is even stronger than we anticipated.
And finally our operating execution has never been better.
So with that general update we'll be happy to turn it over for any questions now.
(Operator Instructions).
And we now have a question from the line of Jim Rollyson.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning guys and great quarter this quarter.
Thanks Jim.
Thanks Jim.
Again Owen trenching in the robotics businesses has certainly been one bright spot for you this year and obviously 4Q will suffer just the seasonal issues that you talked about.
Do you have any visibility at this point or maybe you can provide some color on what visibility you do have looking into next year because it seems like this is usually the shorter cycle of your business lines and just kind of curious what you are seeing developed for 2015 in that front?  The others may have some insight on it as well Jim but from my perspective the trenching always seems to be a bright spot for us but it is very difficult to anticipate the actual timing of the projects.
But I think they shift to the right very easily.
I think if you go back to 2013 we were anticipating a good trenching year and the projects slipped into 2014.
Looking out forward we do see projects on the horizon for 2015.
So I am not forecasting a bad year but I would caution that the uncertainty of the timing of those projects could shift to the right.
Let me add this Owen we have one anchor large long-term trenching project in the Middle East next year which will serve as foundation for our trenching activity next year.
We expect it to be good but it’s too early to tell whether it’s going to be as good as 2014 or not.
Understood makes sense it’s been a great year for that.
I presume your comments on the North Sea winter activity just going to normal levels versus what you saw last year is that the driver behind the Skandi coming to the Gulf of Mexico and maybe any color you have for work opportunity you have for Skandi Constructor in the Gulf?  Certainly we are using the Skandi Constructor.
I mean she’s finished the job last winter in Africa and then Canada.
So we are definitely looking at the Skandi Constructor as our sort of global asset.
Too early for us to really comment on any Gulf of Mexico activity but we will have more color on that once we get through with our budgeting process.
Perfect.
And last one Owen; obviously this market’s has been very focused on the declining oil prices here in the last couple of months.
Just curious from your perspective when you guys are going through budgeting and evaluating things how you think about the world if we have extended lower oil prices kind of at current levels where that impacts your businesses and how much do you think that impacts your business? Thanks.
One of the things that I love about our business is that we’ve moved from being upstream player which is in the more cyclical side of the business to being like a field oriented.
When the oil prices drop and the drill bits stop turning the producers typically turn to more intervention to enhance the existing reserves.
So I think we have somewhat of a natural hedge in that regard.
So it really doesn’t worry me any.
Great I appreciate it.
And our next question is from the line of Jeffrey Campbell.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I guess in line with the last question about the oil prices and just one that I hear from a lot of clients with [inaudible] in Gulf of Mexico rig day rates at or below $300 000 now is there any evidence that you can see of movement of these assets to well intervention?  I think that first I think it’s important to note that it’s the rigs that have historically always done the intervention work over.
What has been transpiring is an evolution in the marketplace to use non-rig alternatives.
With these lower oil prices there is going to a lot of movement to find lower cost.
I think the rig rate is the only part of the equation though.
When you add in the fact that we are so much faster at our rig at doing the same work we have a lot of headroom before the rig rate become a problem for us.
Right now our fleet also you can see by the utilization demand is in excess of what we have the capacity for right now.
So I guess the rig rates could come down I guess it could slow the growth and how quickly our rates can expand at that point but right now I don’t see any problem from the rigs.
Okay right.
That's very helpful.
I noticed that the rental intervention riser system had its straight quarter of rising utilization and I was wondering if you see any appetite for additional IRS assets as rentals and is there something that you would consider putting capital to.
Very much though.
I think it’s proven itself to be a new niche in the market where there is a lot of demand.
I think that went a long ways behind the announcement of our alliance with OneSubsea.
So the plan for the OneSubsea alliance is to build rental systems and own them jointly with OneSubsea and expand our market share into that market.
Okay.
That was also very helpful and my last question actually was with regard to the alliance and OneSubsea and specifically when you announced the collaboration you identified that expanding your vessel capabilities beyond established well intervention was an important consideration in forming the alliance.
I was just wondering if you could expand on which additional capabilities are more likely to come sooner maybe what might come later and why the alliance better positioned you for that kind of expansion than you might have done on your own and I am thinking here because you already have a relationship with Schlumberger so that's really why I am asking that.
Yeah.
That's -- I could talk for about three days on that question I think.
I see so much potential in this marketplace right now.
If you take the analogy of what happened in subsea construction from the 70s through to 90s you saw more and more specialization occurring of the assets to improve efficiencies and therefore there was a bifurcation in the market.
You had flat bottomed barges going to semisubmersibles to reel layers J-lay and they all created their own separate niches.
I see the same thing occurring in the well intervention market and at a faster pace than what I first anticipated.
You have several market niches of well intervention and if you expand the definition of well intervention to be anything that a drill rig is used for now that doesn’t require a 21 inch riser and 18-3/4 inch BOP then you get into a huge potential application for these vessels.
I think the big driver historically up to this point has been decommissioning that's decommissioning in situ.
The marketplace right now because of regulatory factors is looking more at a deconstruction methodology for decommissioning.
I think there is a lot of room for R&amp;D coming up with a better methodology to keep the decommissioning cost low.
That’s high on the priority list and that would be the first one I see coming.
Beyond that on the well construction side in order to lower the cost of well construction there is an awful lot that can be done without a drill rig the top hole section the upper completion clean up and commissioning of the well at the end can relieve 30% to 40% of the time of the drill rig onsite.
I think that has a lot of potential.
In fact the vessels that we're sending down to Brazil will be used more in that low then the next section which I'd say the well the production enhancement section of the market.
This is the one that's really dear to our heart.
This is why we got into intervention and what we really focus on and that's really the place where you see the advantages of the very semi-submersible like the two -- the one we have and the two that we're building.
So there is an awful lot of room for production enhancement including changing out of the submersible pumps.
That's a big area of development and then beyond that starting to get in blue skies if you think about what could be done if coil tubings were deployed off of -- one of our vessels for coil tubing drilling then to a whole new horizon of opportunities.
So in a nutshell given the time we’ve got that sort of shows the potential of this market going forward.
That was a great overview.
I just want to follow up real quick on one thing you said to make sure I understood.
Are you saying that one of the goals coming down the line is -- would be sort of analogous to what we see onshore in the unconventional stuff where they are increasingly trying to drill more of the well with a top hole rig or a lower horsepower a less expensive rig and then turn less and less of the well over to the more expensive high horsepower rig is that kind of an analogy that you were getting at there in well construction? Yeah I think not only on well construction but I think on well de-commissioning as well.
I think the industry is going to move to a multi-phase approach to de-commissioning where you’re using different types of vessels for different aspects of the de-commissioning to enhance the overall efficiency.
Thanks a lot Owen that was really helpful.
And our next question is from the line of Joe Gibney.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning guys.
Just a couple of vessel-related questions on my end.
Just trying to calibrate a little bit on well ops revenue in the quarter specifically on the Skandi and the well intervention job at Canada was there any sort of deferred mobilization revenue for the Skandi this quarter just trying to isolate some of the boost that you guys saw sequentially there.
Yes Joe there was both deferred revenues and deferred expenses associated with the mob period so yes.
Okay on the H534 I know since it’s entered the fleet the mix has mostly been P&amp;As if not all of its work P&amp;A focused just curious about if that makes this holding and I know from a rate perspective you guys have sort of intimated this asset could go on a Q4000 like day rates.
Are those the rates that it is garnering today is it at that level and is that mix still P&amp;A focused? Yeah the mix is still P&amp;A and the focused rate -- I'm sorry Owen go ahead.
No go ahead Tony.
Yes and the rates are roughly comparable to the Q4000.
Okay helpful.
Last one from me just Q7000 just for I know you cut steel as recently as April just what’s the expectation now on fleet entrance is it still second half of ’16 and just maybe remind where you are in terms of discussions with operators in this potential asset? Well I'm currently sitting here in Singapore right now and I just saw the blocks of the Q7 and went over with the project team and everything is on schedule and running along pretty smoothly on that project.
With regards to the contracting of it we’ve been trying to take our time on the contracting and I know that’s probably not what the investment community wants to hear.
But with the opportunities that we’re starting to see globally it is the asset that we have that’s available coming out next.
So we’re trying to really access all of the opportunities and make sure we place it in the right place on the best contract.
So I know we said we were going to be shooting for a contract this year but I -- just because of the market conditions right now we’ve been sort of -- we’ve had the luxury of taking out time and looking at all of the options ahead of us.
And I say luxury because with the capabilities of the Q4000 personally I'm not concerned with its utilization.
So I just want to make sure that we put it in the right place that provides the best returns and the best strategic advancement for the company.
Sure makes sense given what’s going on in the macro appreciate your guys’ time thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
We now have a question from the line of Trey Stolz.
Please go ahead.
Morning guys.
Just one quick question on the guidance or slide 20 looking forward and trying to balance this and I know you don’t want to be too specific on 2015 yet but the language here regulatory drydocks in 2015 and headwinds and when I look in my model at in the Q5000 which is a pretty significant bump up in operating income should I be interpreting this otherwise that the cautionary language here on the drydocks or is 2015 still a pretty significant bump up on well intervention given that introduction of the Q5? Let me take that Trey.
First of all it I think it’s again premature to give specific guidance for 2015.
We’re doing a bottoms-up approach on our budget so we don’t even know the answer to that question today.
I guess it was important for us to point out that we will have a significant amount of drydock days in 2015.
You’ve got the Seawell out there for 90 plus or minus days you have the Q4000 out there for plus or minus 45 days and the H534 for about 30 days.
Then the question is if we say on schedule with the Q5 that will be a nice boost up but we really don’t know the answer to that question.
We are still trying to sort it out.
So I have given a long winded answer that says we can’t answer the question.
All right that… I’ll just add a little something to that Tony and that’s what I was commenting on in my closing comments was just the refocus on the long-term plans.
We’ve just gotten through a period here of introducing assets to our fleet and we are seeing the results of that in the marketplace.
We do have the Q5 coming towards the second-half of next year but that’s the only major asset that we have being added.
Than in 2016 we have three major assets being added.
So all I was just trying to do is we saw a big jump up here as a result of the earlier efforts.
2015 was never planned to be a big growth year 2016 is.
And you wouldn’t care to quantify what kind of increase in revenue we are seeing from day rates let’s say 2015 versus 2014 or looking ahead just what’s contracted in 2016? Well all of our contracts are pretty well established except for the Q7 our rates are pretty said set out through 2016.
So there won’t be any -- I don’t see any great increases coming from rate increases and as one of the previous questions there are headwinds in the industry right now for how aggressive you can be on pushing the rates up.
So I would anticipate that our rates are probably where they are going to be there for a little while.
All right great thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Martin Malloy.
Please go ahead.
Hey congratulations on the quarter.
I have a question just in terms of looking out when you get the fleet up to nine well intervention vessels I get to an EBITDA generation capability of close to $600 million and I don’t know maybe your maintenance CapEx is somewhere around $75 million.
Could you talk maybe about a little bit about your thoughts on the uses of cash at that point? Yeah Marty.
You want to jump in Tony or…? Yeah I will jump in.
First of all I think and this is why I think to Owen’s point is 2015 you have got all of these moving parts and when you look at our earnings ability on a pro forma basis with the Q5 coming in the [CM] vessels which again are all under contract the number you cite is a reasonable number on pro forma basis.
So I think that’s a good point Marty.
I think in terms of looking forward beyond the ship building phase we are going in we expect to be sitting with a fairly and highly liquid position and I think it’s time that we evaluate returning money to shareholders in one form or another.
That not saying we’ve concluded that I am saying we are certainly evaluating it Marty unless we see another strong phase of building vessels right now we don’t have any new vessels planned beyond what’s announced and perhaps one more but going beyond that I think it’s incumbent upon us to take a serious look at returning money to shareholders.
Owen you want to add to that?  I would just add that that doesn’t mean that our growth becomes stymied.
I think we just enter into a new era of how to grow.
Right now we’ve gone from just essentially three intervention assets and we will be up to nine or ten.
By 2018 I think our market outlook is calling for something for market demand for about 20.
I think anytime that you start aspiring to hold on to greater than 50% of market share I think you are really asking for -- you are tempting fate.
But we have established ourselves as a strong credible leader in our marketplace.
So that we have the luxury of sitting back then and really being a little more judicious about the rate of our build process.
Right now we needed the fleet and we progressively put it into service.
The next phase of growth though comes from starting to look at the fleet and figure out what services soft services can be added around the hard assets in order to create value creation and sustain growth and now that’s a lot less capital intensive than what we are doing right now.
So then that gets back to Tony’s comments at that point I think you have to start looking at returning to shareholders.
Thank you.
Operator And our next question is from the line of [William Albock].
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning guys.
Good morning.
So is Q4 2013 a reasonable quarter to look at [on a Q4] that we should think about for Q4 this year thought in Q4 ‘13 you had down time for the Well Enhancer and zero contribution from the Helix 534.
So can you do similar EBITDA which was around $77 million in Q4 ‘13 given the 534 is in the fleet even with the weaker winter? Well the other additional factors weighing for Q4 is both the Seawell and Skandi are in drydock somewhat offset by having the 534 in the fleet but with those two vessels in drydock I’m not sure it’s a fair comparison.
Okay.
And I also think we had a much stronger trenching situation in fourth quarter 2013 than we are expecting in the fourth quarter 2014.
So again without being too specific I think it’s maybe not a fair comparison.
Okay In light of the weakness in the floater market how stable are the day rates on the Q4000 and the Helix 534? Well our rates for the -- as I mentioned before our rates are all set for the next few years.
So they are pretty stable at where they are now.
Okay.
Just one more any color on how many days possibly for the Q4000 and H534 drydocks in 2014 and maybe when in 2014? Sure I mean this is just an estimate because you never know once you get into drydock.
So we’re estimating about 45 days for the Q4 and about 30 days for the 534.
In terms of timing and I don’t think this is going to vary that much.
We expect the Q4 to enter drydock in early Q2 and the H534 to go into drydock in late Q2 early Q3.
Okay thank you very much.
Our next question is from the line of [Joe Merwark].
Please go ahead.
Hello.
You guys have a very healthy CapEx cycle here in ‘14 and ‘15 and for 2014 I would have expected net debt to tick-up a little bit each and every quarter and that’s been the wrong assumption particularly here in Q3.
What can you do to help us out from a net debt perspective? Where do you guys think you will be at the year-end ‘14 and year-end ‘15? Thank you.
Good question Joe I think we have a major shipyard payment on the Q5 that we expect to make here in the fourth quarter.
So we expect our cash position to come down a bit from where it is today and in 2015 we expect again we’re going to be completing the Q5000 we’ll have the final payment due on it.
We’ll also have spending accelerating on the two CM vessels.
So I would expect cash to come down a little bit too by the end of 2015.
Nevertheless I expect our cash position our liquidity to remain fairly healthy throughout the period of time.
In other words I really don’t think our net debt is ever going to get above 10% through 2015.
So we tend to be a little conservative in our thought process here but we do expect net debt to tick up a little bit because our CapEx program is starting to peak during the next 18 months.
Thank you for the help.
There are no further questions at this time.
Okay well thanks for joining us today.
We very much appreciate your interest and participation and look forward to having you all on our fourth quarter 2014 call in next February.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Helix Energy Solutions Group Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Afterwards we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded today Tuesday February 17 2015.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Terrence Jamerson Director of Finance and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today for our conference call on our Q4 2014 earnings release.
Participating on this call for Helix today is Owen Kratz our CEO; Tony Tripodo our CFO; Cliff Chamblee our COO; Alisa Johnson our General Counsel; and Erik Staffeldt our Finance and Treasury Director.
Hopefully you all have had an opportunity to review our press release and related slide presentation materials released last night.
If you do not have a copy of these materials both can be accessed through the Investor Relations page on our website at www.helixesg.com.
The press release can be accessed under the Press Releases tab and the slide presentation can be accessed by clicking on today's webcast icon.
Before we begin our prepared remarks Alisa Johnson will make a statement regarding forward-looking information.
Executive VP &amp; General Counsel</strong> During this conference call we anticipate making certain projections and forward-looking statements based on our current expectations.
All statements in this conference call or in the associated presentation other than statements of historical facts are forward-looking statements that are made under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Our actual future results may differ materially from our projections in forward-looking statements due to a number and variety of factors including those set forth in our slide two and in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2013.
Also during this call certain non-GAAP financial disclosures may be made.
In accordance with SEC rules the final slides of our presentation materials provide a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP measures to comparable GAAP financial measures.
The reconciliation along with this presentation the earnings press release our annual report and a replay of this broadcast are available on our website.
Owen? Thanks Alisa.
We'll start out on slide five which is a high-level summary of the Q4 results.
As we suggested in our prior call Q4 was anticipated to be a much different story than Q3 due to normal seasonal factors as well as the dry dockings scheduled for the Seawell and the Skandi Constructor.
However two adverse issues caused our results to fall below our expectations.
As a result Q4 EBITDA came in at $39 million versus the $137 million of EBITDA in Q3 while EPS fell to $0.08 per share versus $0.71 of EPS in Q3.
Turning over to slide six let me touch on the two events that led to the disappointing quarter.
First a supply boat accidently collided with – into the Q4000 while the vessel was in service offshore.
Although the damage proved to be somewhat minor the vessel needed to sail to port for damage assessment repair and then remediation.
During this period of time the vessel went on contractually reduced rates.
However when the Q4000 went back on location mechanical difficulties associated with the redeployment of the intervention riser system resulted in the vessel going on zero rates until we were able to get the riser system functioning properly again.
The second issue was the H534 was out of service for 59 days – or 53 days I'm sorry; 39 of which were caused by late job cancelation by our client.
We were not able to bring other work forward that could have filled the gap as the customers were still pending permits or waiting for partner approvals.
As our Robotics and the rest of our Well Intervention fleet performed better than anticipated we would have exceeded our prior forecast if it weren't for these two adverse issues.
On to slide seven from a balance sheet perspective our cash and liquidity levels remain very strong.
Cash decreased to $476 million as a result of the $126 million of capital spending during the quarter including a progress payment on the Q5000.
Cash along with the unused portion of our credit facility kept total liquidity at a fairly consistent level of approximately $1.1 billion.
Net debt at quarter end was $75 million.
I'll now turn the call over to Cliff for an in-depth discussion of our contracting services.
Okay.
Thanks Owen.
Good morning.
As you can see detailed here on slide nine the fourth quarter was a different story compared to Q3.
We have historically expected a decline in the Robotics during the winter months which we saw during the fourth quarter.
We forecasted lower earnings from our Well Intervention business segment primarily due to the dry dockings of our two North Sea vessels the Skandi Constructor and the Seawell.
However the two unforeseen incidents that Owen alluded to in his opening remarks the supply boat colliding into the Q4000 and the cancellation of work from the 534 further hampered our results during the quarter.
Also the sharp decline in oil price impacted our Production Facilities' earnings where a portion of the processing revenues for the Helix Producer I floating production unit are tied to oil and gas prices.
Although given the quarter as well as the climate for oil and gas moving into 2015 I do not want to gloss over the overall performance for the year.
We had an outstanding 2014 a year that exceeded our original expectations; both our people and our assets performed exceptionally well throughout the year.
So moving on to slide 10 for the well ops review in the Gulf of Mexico the Q4000 achieved 86% utilization for the quarter.
This number may be a bit misleading given the fact that the earnings from this asset were significantly lower given this vessel – given this level of utilization due to the number of days we operated at reduced rates as a result of the collision and issues we had with the redeployment of the IRS after going back on to location.
The 534 also had quite a drop in utilization and Q4 was actually the first quarter that the vessel had been off-hire since being placed into service back in February of 2014.
The majority of the down time on the 534 was due to the late cancellation of planned work that the vessel had scheduled during the quarter.
Unfortunately given our current environment this is a situation we will not be immune to in 2015 which Tony will get into more detail during his remarks on the outlook for the year.
IRS no.
2 which is our rental intervention riser system was on-hire for the entire quarter predominantly at operational rates.
Moving on over to the North Sea combined utilization across all three vessels was 69% mainly due to Skandi Constructor and the Seawell dry dockings.
The Skandi completed her dry dock in December while the Seawell was entering the dry dock.
Work on the Seawell which is a combination of dry dock plus refurbishment is expected to run into April of this year.
This estimate is a little later than previously stated due to Seawell actually entering the dry dock a bit later than expected in December.
The Well Enhancer worked in the North Sea prior to departing for Spain for a Well Intervention project in the Mediterranean in December.
The job completed in January and the Enhancer is currently back in the North Sea working now.
Moving on to slide number 11 for this business segment vessel utilization was 79% in the fourth quarter compared to 90% in Q3.
This includes 61 days of work utilizing spot vessels which was 136 fewer days than in Q3.
With revenues earned off of our vessels being the primary driver of earnings for this business unit this pretty well tells the story of why profits in the Robotics decreased quarter-over-quarter.
Also remember that the fourth quarter we had a lot of – we had a total of four long-term chartered vessels since we returned the Olympic Triton back to the vessel owner in September.
Again taking into account the seasonality of this business Robotics still outperformed our internal Q4 forecast.
The Olympic Canyon remains in India where she's fully utilized during the quarter.
We transited the REM Installer from the North Sea over to the Gulf of Mexico during Q4.
We do not have a long-term chartered vessel in this region throughout 2014.
The Grand Canyon I completed trenching projects in North Sea and then sailed to the Middle East for a cable burial project that's expected to run through at least Q2 of this year.
The Deep Cygnus is also performing trenching work during the quarter after being dockside in October for some crane repairs.
And moving on to slide number 12 basically I'll leave this slide detailing the vessel utilization for you reference.
And with that I'll turn it over to Erik for the key balance sheet metrics.
Thanks Cliff and good morning.
Please turn to slide 14.
Slide 14 provides an illustration of our debt instrument maturity profile at December 31.
Debt reduction during the quarter was a result of the acquired quarterly payments of our term loan.
At year end our total funded debt was $572 million.
Moving on to slide 15 it provides an update on our year-end gross and net debt levels.
We continue to maintain a strong liquidity position with approximately $1.1 billion of liquidity.
Our net debt level was approximately $75 million slightly lower than our year-end 2014 levels.
Year-to-date operating cash flow increased to $359 million driven by our strong operating results.
We have used cash from operations to fund $335 million of capital expenditures $20 million of debt repayments and $8 million of stock repurchases.
Our year-end cash position is $476 million.
I will turn the call over to Tony for a discussion on our 2015 outlook.
Thanks Erik and moving over to slide 17 and 18 which presents our initial outlook for 2015.
Let me reinforce some of the comments Cliff made earlier to say that despite the disappointing quarter four results 2014 was an exceptional year for Helix as both the Well Intervention and the Robotics businesses booked record years in terms of both revenues and earnings.
Furthermore as Erik mentioned we funded a relatively high year of CapEx mostly for growth out of internally-generated cash flow.
2015 will be a different story to say the least.
The E&amp;P community is responding to the sharp decline in oil prices with significant budgetary reductions.
All companies in the E&amp;P services and supply chain will be impacted and Helix will not be immune.
Simply put the E&amp;P community has taken a very aggressive approach to reducing spending in any manner possible.
Our customers are aggressively seeking a cut spending wherever possible which could involve deferring work attempting to renegotiate rates and canceling contracts even if they will incur penalties for termination.
Aside from the already announced and anticipated reductions in E&amp;P spending Helix will be impacted by the following issues.
Our largest market continues to be the North Sea where we conduct most of our business in local currency.
The sharp increase in the U.S.
dollar vis-à-vis the British pound will impact our reported earnings.
Our current estimate of this impact is approximately $15 million to $20 million based on current exchange rates.
As we have long planned the Seawell is in dry dock for a major refurbishment and life extension.
This is expected to keep her out of service through April.
Furthermore both the Q4 and the H534 have regulatory dry docks scheduled for an estimated 45-day duration age.
The aggregate impact of these drive docks is estimated to cost an incremental $30 million of earnings as compared to 2014.
Lower oil prices will also impact our tolling revenues for the HP1 floating production facilities.
Although a portion of our revenues is fixed the portion varies as well based on the oil and gas prices realized by our customer with a throughput that is processed by this vessel.
Based on the current outlook for oil and gas prices we expect an impact to earnings of $10 million compared to last year.
In general the current commodity price environment will make for a challenging year for all involved in the industry as well as making it close to impossible to forecast with any degree of certainty.
Given the specific company factors mentioned above as well as the uncertainty created by the commodity price overhang the obvious outlook for Helix is a down year for 2015 as compared to our record 2014 the magnitude of which could well be significant.
Moving over to slide 19 our backlog as of December 31 remains high at $2.3 billion.
The Well Intervention business by market is as follows.
In the Gulf of Mexico the Q4000 is expected to have fairly high utilization aside from our scheduled dry dock.
The H534 as Cliff mentioned had a recent customer cancellation which has left some gap in her schedule although she does has working prospects ahead of her dry dock this summer.
The North Sea market has been softer this winter as we had previously forecasted.
That being said the Well Enhancer just completed a job in the Mediterranean and looks to stay fairly busy throughout 2015.
The Seawell is in dry dock and does not expect to be available for service until late April.
The Skandi has seen weak utilization in the winter months but we expect activity for her to improve in the late spring and summer months.
Robotics is affected by the same market conditions as our Well Intervention business.
We expect a lot less spot market vessel utilization in 2015 due to lower activity levels as we remained focused on keeping our long-term chartered fleet busy as this fleet is scheduled to rise to six vessels upon the delivery of the Grand Canyons II and III.
There is plenty of excess capacity for this type of vessels serving this market.
Thus we expect 2015 to be a very competitive year in this business.
While we believe Robotics will not match 2014's record performance results should still come in somewhere between 2013 and 2014 results; thus from an historic perspective a decent year in Robotics.
Let me move over to slide 21 and discuss CapEx.
We have budgeted full-year CapEx at approximately $400 million however we are looking for every opportunity cut or defer CapEx spending wherever possible and are seeking to spend less than what we have budgeted.
Of the $400 million of CapEx we budgeted $305 million represents growth capital associated with the Q5 and the Q7 the two Siem Helix vessels slated for Brazil along with additional ROV units.
Again I want to emphasize that we're seeking to spend less than a $400 million.
So when you look at our total CapEx a lot of it's committed to future contracts or otherwise fairly set in concrete right now.
I'll skip the slides 22 through 24 and leave them for your reference and turn the call over to Owen for closing remarks.
Thanks Tony.
Everyone there's not – there's really not much more that can be said specific about 2014 or the 2015 outlook we all know that the industry's in the early stages of a possibly significant down cycle.
But it is just a cycle.
I say significant because it's driven not only by an oversupply of both oil and gas but also at a time that certain segments of the oilfield service industry had built significantly more capacity than the market needed.
The depth and duration of this down cycle are made more difficult to predict because of the uncertainty about demand elasticity given the less-than-robust nature of the global economies.
Some oil and gas companies as well as service companies will struggle to survive.
We're seeing oil and gas companies take this opportunity to rebase their business models for a potentially longer period of lower commodity prices.
The impact to 2015 has possibly been made more acute and therefore more difficult to forecast partly because of the sudden drop in the oil prices but also in addition because they came during the 2015 budgeting period.
So that's going to be a driver for customer behavior for all of 2015.
Corrections in the market like this are not entirely a bad thing though.
The industry will rebase and it will move on again.
Inevitably there will be a recovery cycle.
The industry as it always has will renew its efforts to seek even greater efficiencies in how it produces oil and gas.
Non-rig alternatives for subsea Well Intervention is a relatively new but now accepted step-change in efficiency versus the drilling rig.
There will of course be near-term pressure from contracted but now idle rigs.
But longer term there will be even more interest in efficiency gains.
The growth potential for Well Intervention vessels remains.
Until oil and gas companies increase their drilling budgets again the alternatives for adding reserves will probably be through M&amp;A and production enhancement through Well Intervention.
P&amp;A as well is regulatory-driven and we're not seeing any indication that regulatory bodies intend to become lax on the enforcement of the requirements.
Many more wells may in fact be found to be non-commercial and become candidates for P&amp;A.
Helix has been aggressive in building the best intervention fleet in the world.
However the growth in our fleet has been staged at a pace that was intentionally meant to be better aligned with liquidity and future cash flows.
We're fortunate to have significant liquidity today.
During this slow cycle we'll refocus on a few things.
As Tony said we'll curtail capital spending wherever we can as we evaluate the potential impact of the down cycle on our business.
We also will seek to rebase our costs as the oil and gas companies rebase theirs.
For us that means among other things that we'll shift from a period where we – of high growth where we're looking to add a lot of people to a more conservative one.
The quality of our existing people is up to carrying the challenge of this.
We will put a priority on maintaining the strength of our balance sheet during this cyclical downturn.
We will position for the recovery.
This means that we'll be sensitive to the efforts of our long-standing good clients as they seek to deal with the cancellation or deferment of well projects in ways that makes sense for both of us.
This also means that we'll continue with our partner OneSubsea to develop the means of unlocking greater efficiencies with our assets.
In other words we'll hunker down watch our finances but we'll also look at strengthening the relationships with our good clients so that we'll be positioned to reap the maximum benefits as we transition towards the recovery cycle.
I might just say a few words to head off a few questions.
I think it is fair to assume that we are in dialog with numerous customers that we have regarding changes in our rate structure and schedule.
By way of example we've already mentioned that we had a recent customer cancellation for work on the H534.
But we also really value our customers.
And it's in our long-term best interest to work with them if we can find a mutually palatable solution for addressing their near-term needs as well as our long-term needs.
However as you can probably expect we are bound by obligations of confidentiality and therefore we can't – and please don't ask us specifically about every contract that we have because we just cannot talk about it.
That's the reason why we have not given guidance right now.
In the event that we do enter contract amendments that are material we'll disclose them at the appropriate time and we'll give everybody as clear an insight as to the year ahead as we can as it unfolds.
Having said that we can't give guidance right now.
But I think it is fair to say that our 2015 year will at least be similar to historic past years where it will be a bell-shaped curve with weak quarters in Q1 and Q4.
In fact Q1 is probably going to look very similar to a continuation of Q4 here.
Let me just go on to say this is a period that we need to get through.
We're well positioned to get through it.
Going into 2013 if you remember we announced a five-year growth plan.
We did $270 million of EBITDA in 2013 and our aspirations were to double the EBITDA in five years or by 2018.
There is nothing that we are seeing right now that would indicate that any part of that five-year growth goal is not achievable.
If you go back and look at the details of what we said about the five-year growth plan 2015 was always going to be a flat year to 2014.
Our outperformance in 2014 meant that 2015 was even without all of this going to be probably a slight down year compared to 2014.
But in the scheme of things it was designed to be a flat year as we're building our fleet and brining assets on; so the future growth is ahead.
We're preserving our relationships with our clients.
And as a result I don't see anything that would jeopardize the long-term plan here.
So with that I'll wind it up.
And I'm sure you've got some question so I'll turn it back over to the operator for Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
Our first question comes from the line of Marshall Adkins.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning gentlemen.
Thanks for the color.
Owen I don't want to get into obviously specifics as you mentioned on these contracts.
But can you speak generically about how these discussions are evolving? And let me just kind of set the stage here the land drillers they have contracts and when people want to get at them they basically charge the profit they would have made and so each one gives a little give and take.
Is that the type of discussions you're having? Or I guess more – how much of the – are there any penalties or anything associated generically with these contracts? It's a very good question Marshall.
I think you have to realize that first the Well Intervention market was evolving.
So the contract styles are sort of diverse.
We have – the vast majority of our contracts are short duration but many of them are multi-year in nature.
In order to fit that kind of a schedule together we require flexibility on the scheduling of the work in our contracts.
And therefore the contracts reciprocate that and the return for the producers.
So our contracts are as I mentioned diverse.
Some of them are a matter of clients that have an obligation but they do have the flexibility of deferring work into the future.
That – those discussions are being had.
The majority of our contracts that are considered take or pay do have termination for convenience clauses in them.
There is a wide range of cancellation fee arrangement.
Some contracts are better protected than others.
And therefore some of the producers are looking at availing themselves of the termination fees in the near term here.
And then we've got the longer-term contracts where the producers are seeking a longer-term solution.
So we have the gauntlet of the discussions going on.
And as soon as we – it's early in the process.
This all happen so suddenly.
It would be irresponsible for us to sort of predict the outcome of the discussions before we go to the end of them.
Inc.</span></strong> But it sounds like we shouldn't assume that penalties are going to bring a lot of revenues forward that if there are consequences which there probably will be there are not going to be meaningful compensation brought forward is that a fair characterization? Yeah.
I think it would be a very rare case where we have termination fees that would keep us hold on the economics.
It's always better to do the work.
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
All right.
Marshall also it varies by region too Marshall.
In the UK it's more a take or pay.
So we are better protected in Gulf of Mexico which is more penalty-driven.
So it's a little different by region.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Thanks.
All right.
Just one quick follow-up here Owen.
In the past you've given us really good detail on why these low-end floating rigs second third generation don't really compete head to head with your assets.
But we're now starting to see some higher-end some fifth-gen rigs come down and prices decline.
Do you expect to see any competition emerge in your space from those higher-end rigs that everyone thought would be working but may not be working in the next couple of years? I think you have to look producer by producer.
I think the variable there is producers that maintain rig pools.
And of course they'll be looking at do they need a rig pool plus an intervention vessel.
It would be a very insightful producer that recognizes that with an intervention vessel they could actually do with one less rig in the big pool.
But there are some that do recognize that.
I guess I would just refocus again on the five-year plan.
The older rigs being out there the third and fourth-gen were a source of major consternation among the investors over the last year or 18 months that I'm aware of.
One positive out of what's going on right now is we're seeing a big shift from wanting to work those old rigs to going ahead and scrapping them.
So longer term I think that's a real positive to relieve the investors of the worry about us competing against the older rigs.
As far as the newer rigs coming down in the price point day rate is only part of the question and efficiency is the other part.
In the near term pure day rate may drive the day for producers looking at near-term 2015 results.
But producers that are seeking to rebase for the longer term are going to be more biased towards the efficiency gain.
So it's probably a little too early to see where it all shakes out for 2015 but I think any impact to us from fifth-gen rigs coming down to our price point would be short-lived.
Inc.</span></strong> Perfect.
Thanks Owen.
See you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeffrey Campbell.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
First thing I want to ask you you mentioned that the balance sheet was going to be a priority going forward.
Your balance sheet looks pretty strong right now.
So I'm just wondering what metrics or balance sheet items you're going to prioritize in the downturn? Jeffrey I would say retaining as much liquidity as possible I think we look at 2015 is going to be a down year and there are factors outside of our control.
So the one thing we will try to control is maintaining that strong balance sheet and coming out of this downturn positioned where the strong balance sheet will set us up well for the future.
So again no rocket science here.
We're going to try to cut back on CapEx.
We're going to try to manage cash and again come out of this down cycle in good shape.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
The press release noted that the IRS no.
2 was on-hire all of the fourth quarter 2014.
I was wondering if you could provide a little color as to the typical customers that are renting the system at this time.
And I know the visibility is tough in 2015.
Do you have any current expectations with respect to the continued utilization of the IRS 2 going into 2015? Yeah it's on paid standby right now for a particular client but there's other clients that are looking at it to take it out and do some actual work and when we get permission from the client that's got it on standby to take it out and perform some work that we'll probably do here next month or so.
And it will be on paid standby right now through – I think through majority of this second quarter if not all of it.
Inc.</span></strong> And is there any kind of – I'm just trying to understand it better.
Is there any kind of pattern to the work that is being rented for or the customers that are renting the system? No I don't think there is a pattern.
I think it runs the gauntlet.
But I think what this down cycle mean if the rigs – if the producers do opt to use the rigs in their pools for doing the work-over work they need the intervention system.
So I'd say that the softer market here is actually a positive for the likelihood of keeping the intervention system busy because of course it's rented out specifically for use off of rigs.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And if I could sneak one last one in real quick the Well Enhancers in Spain for Mediterranean intervention project could you just add a little color on the project? And do you hope that the Well Enhancer is going to stay in that region or would it return to the North Sea or is that even answerable at this point? Yes it's answerable.
It was in Spain.
I don't recall exactly how long but about a month or so I guess it was off of Spain and it's back in the North Sea now working in the North Sea.
And it did two things down in Spain.
It unplugged a clogged production line on a subsea well and then did some well enhancement.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Martin Malloy.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning Marty.
I was wondering on the – if you could give us the timing of when the H534 and the Q4000 are heading into dry docking this year? April and August.
Okay.
And then – and maybe there is just too much uncertainty out there in the market but even just a range is there any help you can give us on the gross profit margins that we might be looking at for this year for Well Intervention and Robotics? I think any – Marty any guidance we give you will probably be obsolete in a week and then absolutely again in another week.
So I think we're hesitant to do so.
Lower utilization in total will inevitably lead to lower margins.
Okay.
Yeah.
And I just thought is there any update you can give us on discussions regarding the Q7000 contracts? No further update.
I think the last time we talked with everyone we said that we weren't actually seeking a contract for it right now because of the opportunities that have become available in the world.
That really hasn't changed.
We're still in the same discussions.
How 2015 will impact those discussions I'm really not sure at this point but right now the discussions are ongoing.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Matthew Marietta.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> Wanted to clarify on the H534 the cancellation there for work.
Was that a job that was altogether cancelled? Was it deferred? Is that job being done with another rig or another asset? And maybe get into what sort of job or operations was it for that was cancelled deferred et cetera? There were two separate ones started up in the fourth quarter of last year and both of them were cancelled.
And both of them had cancellation fees associated with them.
And I'm not sure I think one of them was cancelled altogether and the other they may do with – may or may not do with one of the rigs that they have – that they've already got on hire and have to pay.
And just to add a little color beyond those two the pattern that I'm seeing is that producers are either – every well usually has partners.
And what the producers are going through right now is that all the partners may or may not elect to go forward.
And when a partner cancels or goes non-consent then it's up to the other partners to pick that up into their budgets.
And of course they don't have the budget.
So that's causing a lot of problems for the producers with their drilling plans.
And then the second thing that's happening that I think creates a pattern is as projects are cancelled all of a sudden rigs that are currently contracted are becoming idle.
And therefore they're looking at sunk costs versus our costs and weighing those costs against their termination rights.
And that's what's going on right now.
That will probably take a while to shake out and then it will be a little bit longer until rig contracts start rolling over.
And then we'll have to see where the market shakes out.
Inc.</span></strong> That's helpful color.
I appreciate it.
And then switching over to the ROVs I think the count shifted from 56 to 50 sequentially quarter-over-quarter.
Can you maybe help us get an idea on what the long-term count or next 12 month to 18 month count will look like and kind of what the strategy is there from an ROV unit count? Are you looking to add subtract or what can we expect over that time horizon? Well as Tony said we had looked at our capital budget and so we're acquiring all of these to the new vessels that are coming out on the Well Intervention side and on the Canyon side such as the – I mean the Grand Canyon II and III.
And as far as the count – and I'll just finish on there.
So we're watching our CapEx there what we have in our fleet that we can use for some of those vessels and maybe not buy some new vessels but use some existing ROVs in the fleet for those vessels.
And the difference in the count I believe is we retired some of the older ROVs that we had in the fleet that were 10 years 15 years old or plus especially down in Asia I believe.
And they really weren't generating any revenues anyway.
Correct.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
That's helpful.
Thanks guys.
Our next question comes from the line of Joe Gibney.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Tony just a quick clarification.
I think we can all kind of take a stab at where utilization rates go.
It's obviously a pretty swiftly-moving market.
But I'm just trying to understand what you're intimating about what base of EBITDA off of 2014 to be sort of working down from.
So you call out some of Skandi's high-margin work in the year.
I mean is $350 million the appropriate level to begin factoring in some of the factors you call out along with whatever sort of rate utilization assumptions we want to make on the well upside? I would agree $350 million is a good number because if you start out the full year at $378 million you take out the extraordinary margins we made with the Skandi last year in West Africa and Canada and then we have a one-time insurance recovery about $8 million as well you're about $350 million.
So that's a proper starting point I believe to compare with your assumptions for 2015.
And then we mentioned a specific company items such as the dry docks the currency and lower oil prices as to how it impacts the Production Facilities business.
So that is the proper way.
In terms of utilization I'll tell you that I think the Well Enhancer the Q4000 will be fairly well utilized in 2015.
Of course Seawell's dry dock so it really doesn't count today.
And we expect weaker utilization year-over-year for both the H534 and the Skandi Constructor.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
But there's a lot of unknowns.
There's a lot of prospects and there is a lot of unknowns on the downside as well.
So which – again it makes it – the current environment makes it very difficult to give guidance.
Inc.</span></strong> Understood.
It's a fluid situation.
Just on the – one more on the cost side.
You referenced obviously trying to rein in things on the CapEx front understood there.
But how about G&amp;A as another lever to pull? I mean what are your expectations there on maybe trimming up G&amp;A a little bit into 2015? I think there is some opportunity Joe.
But when we were reorganizing the company and divesting non-core assets I think we did a pretty efficient job of shrinking the G&amp;A at that same time.
Over the last year we actually were moving into an expansionary role in anticipation of these new vessels coming into the fleet.
So we were actually hiring pretty aggressively.
I think what we can do is become a little less aggressive on that and rely more on our existing personnel.
But I'm not sure – I think there is some trimming that can be done.
But to expect more than 10% cut in SG&amp;A would be unreasonable I think.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
We just don't have it.
We're a pretty lean operator.
Inc.</span></strong> Sure.
Okay.
I appreciate it.
I'll turn it back.
Our next question comes from the line of George O'Leary.
Please go ahead.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Good morning guys.
Good morning George.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Maybe following on to the prior question.
So SG&amp;A is not an area where there is a lot of room to cut costs.
But looking forward this year what levers do you have to pull on the cost-cutting side? Is there an opportunity to reduce backup crews just given there is going to be lower utilization or anything maybe that I'm not thinking of that you could do to reduce costs? I don't know that you're going to move the needle a great deal with the labor questions.
I think the bigger issue for us is to look at possible softening of utilization to the point where we could actually idle a vessel.
I don't see that happening.
That's not in our plans right now.
But that would probably be the single largest opportunity for us to reduce costs.
But right now we're just not seeing the need.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful color.
And then on the CapEx front if I look at slide 21 in your presentation you've kind of chopped things up by grouping on what you're spending from a CapEx perspective.
Where would you say the lowest-hanging fruit is for you guys to reduce CapEx if you look across those buckets? The single greatest area is I think Tony mentioned $305 million for growth capital for the build project included in that number.
We've always reported that number inclusive of a fairly large contingency number.
And the way that our builds are going – are going extremely well and smooth and I wouldn't expect us to spend that contingency amount.
And that's probably the single largest piece of capital.
So if we really focus on executing well here then there should be some big savings there.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks very much for the color guys.
Our next question comes from the line of Chase Mulvehill.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Thanks for squeezing me in.
Few follow-up questions here.
I guess as we look at fourth quarter we had some issues with Q4000 and some dry docks.
If we were to normalize margins where do you think 4Q normalized margins were if we were to adjust for those two items? Well I mean I think the job cancellation had a significant impact on our margins to start with.
So the question back to you Chase is do you want to normalize for that as well? I mean we had a extraordinary...
Yes.
Yeah we had extraordinary margins in Well Intervention business all of 2014 including 41% in Q3.
And at that time we believe we said don't expect 41% as kind of a go-forward range that closer to historical levels of 30% is a better indicator.
Now can we achieve 30% in 2015? I doubt it because again utilization is the driving factor.
If we went back to fourth quarter I think we would have been at 30% sans the items we mentioned.
But go forward I think it will be difficult even to achieve 30%.
Okay.
All right.
If we were to look at leading-edge spot day rates for Well Intervention vessels where does these stand right now and how does this compare to kind of cash OpEx on these vessels? In terms of – first of all I would say that what we have in our backlog and expect to work out in 2015 our rates will be in excess of our cash operating costs for sure.
So that's not an issue for us per se.
Okay.
All right.
And then last one for me.
Just any updates on the Brazil newbuilds any discussions you have ongoing there? Well without – if I start talking about one I have to start talking about all of them by omission.
Okay.
So I think I'd rather just stay away from all of the contract – specific contract questions for right now.
Okay.
I wouldn't read anything onerous into that but it's...
Understood.
Understood.
All right.
That's all I have.
Thanks Tony.
Thanks Owen.
And I'm showing we have no further questions registered at this time.
Okay.
Well everyone thanks for joining us today.
We very much appreciate your interest and participation and look forward to having you our first quarter 2015 call coming up in April.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
And afterwards we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Tuesday April 21 2015.
And I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Terrence Jamerson Director of Finance and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today for our conference call for our Q1 2015 earnings release.
Participating on this call for Helix today is Owen Kratz our CEO; Tony Tripodo our CFO; Cliff Chamblee our COO; Alisa Johnson our General Counsel; and Erik Staffeldt our Finance and Treasury Director.
Hopefully you all have had an opportunity to review our press release and the related slide presentation released last night.
If you do not have a copy of these materials both can be accessed through the Investor Relations page on our Web site at www.helixesg.com.
The press release can be accessed under the Press Releases tab and the Slide Presentation can be accessed by clicking on today's webcast icon.
Before we begin our prepared remarks Alisa Johnson will make a statement regarding forward-looking information.
During this conference call we anticipate making certain projections and forward-looking statements based on our current expectations.
All statements in this conference call are in the associated presentation other than statements of historical facts are forward-looking statements that are made under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Our actual future results may differ materially from our projections in forward-looking statements due to a number of variety of factors including those set forth in our Slide 2 and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2014.
Also during this call certain non-GAAP financial disclosures may be made.
In accordance with SEC rules the final slides of our presentation materials provide a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP measures to comparable GAAP financial measures.
The reconciliation along with this presentation the earnings press release our Annual Report and a replay of this broadcast are available on our Web site.
Owen? Good morning everyone.
We will start off with Slide 5 which is the high-level summary of the Q1 results.
From a financial perspective Q1 was marginally better than Q4.
From an operational standpoint as we suggested in our February call Q1 was much like Q4.
Our vessel utilization and operating margin came in slightly better however it was primarily lower SG&amp;A cost that drove the better EBITDA performance.
As a result Q1 EBITDA came in at $51 million versus $39 million of EBITDA in Q4 while EPS increased to $0.19 per share compared to $0.08 per share in Q4.
Turning to Slide 6 although revenue declined we had slightly better vessel utilization and a contract cancellation fee mitigated the cost of revenues associated with the idle days on the H534 caused by the cancellation.
Thus we realized slightly higher margins.
EPS was also bolstered by a 2% effective tax rate and lower variable stock compensation expense.
All in all given the very difficult industry conditions I feel that the $51 million of EBITDA is relatively respectable.
A couple of important milestones were achieved during the quarter.
One we reached agreement with a major customer to extend the contract for Well Intervention Services on the Q4000 for another three years; and two our contract to provide Emergency Well Containment Services with the Helix Fast Response System has been extended through March of 2018.
On to Slide 7.
From a balance sheet perspective our cash and liquidity levels remain strong.
Cash decreased to $415 million as we continue to progress and work through our CapEx program which is mainly focused on the four vessels under construction.
Cash along with the unused portion of our credit facility has our liquidity levels as $1 billion.
Net debt at quarter end was $131 million.
I will now turn the call over to Cliff for an in-depth discussion of our contracting services.
Okay.
Thanks Owen.
Good morning everyone.
Q1 was a decent quarter and a good start for what would prove to be a challenging 2015 for our industry.
Gross profit for both Well Intervention and Robotics business improved quarter-over-quarter primarily driven by a strong utilization throughout the quarter for Q4000 and the Well Enhancer.
As well as increase in vessel utilization in our charter fleet and Robotics.
We also managed to keep the 534 relatively busy after having to scramble to fill gaps this year.
And this year's schedule were being canceled late last quarter.
As Owen mentioned the termination fee mitigated the impact of the cancellation.
Over in our Production Facilities business profits were lower this quarter versus Q4.
This reflects the decrease in revenues realized on the [variable] [ph] portion of our throughput fee from the Helix Producer 1 which is tied to oil and gas prices.
There was lower production from the Phoenix build this quarter as a result of the field being shut in for some developmental activities.
Also during this down time we took the opportunity to perform some required maintenance on the HP 1.
So moving on to Slide 10 for our well ops review.
In the Gulf of Mexico the Q4000 was on-hire the entire quarter although we worked at reduced rates for the first 11 days of the quarter due to IRS mechanical issues.
We initially encountered these issues at the end of Q4 and the work to resolve the issue carried over into early January.
As I mentioned in the previous Slide the team in the U.S.
did a great job scrambling to find work for the 534 and keep her busy after a contract that was canceled in the fourth quarter last year initially left a huge gap in the schedule as she entered 2015.
IRS number 2 in our spare rental intervention riser system was on-hire for the entire quarter on standby.
Just to give a quick update on the Q5000 before moving on to the North Sea the vessel has performed sea trials and we expect her to [focusing] [ph] for heading to Gulf of Mexico around mid-May.
Now moving on over to the North Sea the vessel utilization for the quarter was 54%.
This number does not include the Seawell which is out of service during her life extension dry dock.
The Well Enhancer was fully utilized while the Skandi performed plumbing operations earlier in the quarter but for the most part remained dockside as she struggled to find work.
The Skandi begins her 120-day campaign later this month in a Seawell's life extension dry dock now extents into late Q2.
We will touch on both of these items in more detail in the upcoming slides.
So moving to Slide 11 for the Robotics review.
In Robotics Q1 looked a lot like Q4 last year in terms of revenue and profit which is a positive.
Given that these are normally our weaker quarters for this business 86% charter vessel fully utilization up 7 percentage points over Q4 was key to profitability in the quarter as we were starting to see utilization for the ROV trend downward slightly.
The Grand Canyon I was fully utilized.
And she continues working offshore in Qatar on trenching work that commenced in Q4 of last year.
The Deep Cygnus also performing trenching projects over in the North Sea for various clients.
The REM Installer was transited over to the Gulf of Mexico region from the U.K.
last quarter to work on ROV support projects here in the Gulf during the quarter.
The Olympic Canyon remains In India performing ROV support work and is fully utilized for the quarter.
We expect the Grand Canyon II to enter the fleet later this month and she is expected to go to work shortly thereafter utilizing the T750 Trencher.
Moving on to Slide 12.
I will leave this slide detailing the vessel utilization for your reference and with that I will turn the call over to Erik for the key balance sheet metrics.
Thanks Cliff and good morning.
Please turn to Slide 14.
Slide 14 provides an illustration of our debt instrument maturity profile at March 31st.
Debt reduction during the quarter was a result of the required quarterly payment of our term loan in the semi-annual payment of MARAD Debt.
During the second quarter we expect to take delivery of the Q5000 from Jurong shipyards in Singapore.
We will draw on our Nordea Q5000 facility to make the final shipyard payment.
Balance of the loan approximately $150 million will be used for general [indiscernible] purposes.
This transaction allows us to bolster our cash position during this market downturn.
Moving on to Slide 15 it provides an update on our year-end gross to net debt levels historically end at March 31st.
We continue to maintain a strong liquidity position with approximately $1 billion of liquidity.
Our net debt level was approximately $131 million.
Our cash position has decreased by $61 million this quarter primarily due to CapEx spending.
I will turn over the call for Tony for a discussion on our 2015 outlook.
Okay.
Good morning everyone.
Moving over to Slide 17.
At our February conference call we avoided providing specific quantitative 2015 guidance due to the fast changing and declining industry conditions.
At that time we provided more qualitative guidance suggesting that 2015 would be substantially lower year for profitability due to the severe decline in commodity prices and our customer's response to this dynamic.
We also cited several company specific factors such as relatively high vessel dry dock schedule the strong U.S.
dollar and other items that would serve as friction to our 2015 results.
Although industry conditions remain very challenging and the same issues we mentioned in February persist today 2015 is coming more into focus.
Thus we believe our overall 2015 EBITDA results will fall into $200 million to $240 million range with EPS falling in the $0.55 to $0.70 range.
In terms of capital spending we are now forecasting lower capital spending than what we guided in February with CapEx now estimated at $360 million down from the $400 million we originally estimated.
On to Slide 18 our backlog as of March 31st remains above $2 billion again despite the challenging industry conditions.
The Well Intervention business is shaping up as follows for the remainder of 2015.
In the Gulf of Mexico the Q4000 is expected to have fairly good utilization after her dry dock which is currently underway and expected to be completed in mid-May.
The 534 has some backlog in advance of her scheduled dry dock in August.
In the North Sea we expect the Well Enhancer and the Skandi Constructor to have decent utilization and backlog in Q3 2 and 3.
The Seawell's life extension dry dock continues and is not expected to be completed until June.
Once it is completed she does have backlog in the summer months.
Visibility at present in the North Sea market is weak for Q4.
On to Slide 19 we are pleased to announce that the REM Installer has recently entered into 150-day master service agreement with a major subsea customer for Robotics construction work here in the Gulf of Mexico.
The MSA should provide good visibility for this vessel in 2015.
The Grand Canyon II is expected to enter the fleet any day now.
And she does have committed trenching work upon delivery.
The Olympic Canyon continues to work offshore India with committed work through September whereas the Deep Cygnus has decent utilization for the remainder of Q2.
Over to Slide 20 and CapEx as previously mentioned we have now reduced our forecast to 2015 CapEx spending down to 360 from the 400 we originally estimated.
We continue to look for areas to reduce CapEx not only this year but in the future as this slide shows most of the 2015 CapEx is for vessels under construction and shipyards and in the case of three of the four vessels under contract to customers.
An important milestone the Q5 has recently performed sea trials offshore Singapore.
Once the last bit of punch list items are completed she should set sail under toe to the Gulf of Mexico in mid-May.
She is scheduled to go to work for BP in April of 2016.
We are in discussions with the shipyard for the Q7000 to slow it down and delay delivery of this vessel until 2017.
If we are able to reach agreement this will defer a substantial amount of CapEx from the 2016 to 2017.
Although not a CapEx item we have reached agreement with the vessel owner of Grand Canyon III to defer the start up of this chartered vessel to early 2016 in light of weak industry conditions.
I will skip Slides 21 through 24 leave them for your reference.
And at this time I would like to turn the call back over to Owen for closing remarks.
Thanks Tony.
The visibility related to the impact of falling oil prices on our business seems to have improved from what we saw going into the first quarter.
It has improved to the point where we feel comfortable in providing your best estimates in quantifying what earnings might look like for 2015.
Going into the year we knew that our customers' reaction to the decline in oil prices was going to be severe.
However at that time we could not quantify the risk of how much work would be canceled or deferred whether vessel contracts would be terminated or renewed the extent that we could react with cost in spending reductions and what our ability to fill gaps created by short notice project cancellations might be.
We did guide the Q1 would most likely be similar to Q4 of 2014.
Operationally that turned out to be the case.
However we did have some positive financial impacts from the items we previously mentioned here that resulted in a stronger quarter than the Q4 of 2014.
We also now have a better feel for Q2 and Q3 to the point where we can provide 2015 guidance in the range of $200 million to $240 million of EBITDA for the year a caveat being that we are uncertain yet as to what Q4 might actually be.
The fourth quarter is historically difficult to forecast due to winter seasonality factors and this is made more unpredictable due to the current market conditions.
On a more granular level I can report that one we have either absorbed the impact of the short notice project cancellation we faced at the beginning of the year or we have been able to fill the gaps in the schedule.
Two our longer term contracts for our major assets including Q4000 Q5000 and the two vessels for Brazil are in place and appear for now to be secure.
Third we have been effective in reducing our SG&amp;A and continue to identify areas where we can – we have potential for reducing the supply chain costs further.
Four we have been able to reduce our forecast for 2015 capital spending from over $400 million to an estimated $360 million.
Looking forward we have a better feel now for how customers are looking at 2015 but we can't give any certainty as to the likely duration of this down cycle or what 2016 and beyond will look like.
For now it's too early to say whether we are at bottom or not.
On the dry dock front 2015 will be a major year for us with dry docks on the Q4000 H534 as well as an extended refurbishment of the Seawell.
Our dry dock schedule for 2016 should be lighter.
Our people on the Robotics side of the company have done well to scramble and fill the utilization gaps in the Robotics fleet schedule.
However the construction market from which we derived a significant portion of our utilization is still in the process of working off backlog.
We are somewhat concerned that filling out utilization will be a continuing challenge for our Robotics group.
Although over recent years the group has done well to diversify into non-oil and gas markets which should help us.
And the group will also have opportunity to reduce the size of the Robotics vessel fleet over time as our staggered charter schedule rolls over should that become necessary.
We are also in discussions to extend the delivery of the Q7000 into 2017 with the result that capital obligations for 2016 would be greatly reduced.
We have already negotiated the deferred delivery of the Grand Canyon III.
These moves will allow us to more closely align capital commitments with cash flow preserving our strong liquidity position.
In addition we are set to close the project financing for the Q5000 as mentioned upon its delivery in the next few weeks and this will add to our liquidity position.
We are feeling a tad more comfortable now than we did during our Q4 conference call.
While near term contracted rigs at low rates do have an impact on us longer term we are seeing that the industry for greater efficiency intervention continues and interest in rig alternative methods remain.
The potential threat of older rigs being converted into intervention vessels that some were concerned about is less of an issue now as we see a greater number of older rigs being scheduled for salvage or long-term stacking.
We also note that the rumor and talk from potential competitors about new build intervention vessels coming to the market has gone away.
Some scheduled builds have been canceled or may never be completed.
All in all Helix is in good financial shape today.
And we should occupy even better competitive position going forward.
We are about as pleased as we can expect to be given the current cyclical market conditions.
Now we have the opportunity to plan for how to make the best as we emerge from the cycle.
And with that I will turn it back over to Terrence for closing remarks or questions.
Operator you can turn it over to questions now.
Thank you sir.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Marshall Adkins with Raymond James.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
You certainly did a lot better than I thought you would in this tough environment.
So good work.
SG&amp;A was one of the big variables here a remarkable reduction there.
Fill me in on the repeatability of that? And kind of help us on the modeling side to plug in how much of that is sustainable going forward? Yes.
That is a very good question Marshal.
Undoubtedly in all transparency we had a significantly lower SG&amp;A in the first quarter than we had in Q4 and that will expect to have going forward as a result of having to book sort of speak mark-to-market on some of our long-term compensation due to decline in our stock price.
However going forward we have taken measures here to reduce spending and we expect spending going forward to be lower than what you have seen historically.
So while it probably won't be anywhere as low as Q1 it still will be lower than historical quarters that you saw in 2014 and earlier.
And I think somewhere in the 7% to 8% of revenue for the year is a good metric here to apply Marshal.
Well impressive.
For the second one Owen over to you you did mention on these older rigs they are retiring them.
You are not seeing any really new build competitors come in.
What about those 4th and 5th Gen things that seem to be getting laid down.
Do you sense any encroachment on the competitive landscape from those guys? And give us in addition to that your overall view of the overall competitive landscape and how that is shaping out in the downturn? I think near term Marshal the 4th and 5th Gens might come down in the market but I think heart in the fact that all of our major long-term contracts and this was after a lot of discussion we didn't lose any of those.
The producers are all firmly committed to the efficiency gains that we bring to the table.
And there is quite honestly there was a lot of competition discussion between us and our clients as to whether to go forward with us or whether or not to use these rigs that they got.
And so far it looks like as I said in my remarks they are staying consistent with their quest for longer term greater efficiencies.
So we are the beneficiary of that.
So reading between the lines it sounds like the whole plan and methodology of building these units to be purpose built is paying off so far? I think that's an inevitable evolutionary step in our industry.
I think this could slow the demand for it a little for a while but I think we are firmly on the path to – the producers looking for alternatives.
Great work guys.
I will requeue.
Thanks.
And our next question comes from the line of Chase Mulvehill with SunTrust.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning fellows.
Nice quarter.
I guess a question that I keep getting is on your direct cost in the first quarter.
It declined about $22 million quarter-over-quarter.
So can we kind of – I guess the Seawell is in dry dock for the full quarter.
So were there any costs associated with the Seawell any direct costs that were realized during the quarter? Or was everything capitalized or -- I would say for the most part all the activities surrounding the Seawell were part of the dry dock which gets capitalized.
Okay.
So what is the associated costs for the Seawell once it comes out of dry dock.
I'm trying to model this on a go forward basis.
Well I don't want to get too specific as to numbers here Chase.
I think you are aware of our daily run rate for OpEx on these vessels.
And she should have a full quarter only in quarter 3 and quarter 4 as again we expect her not to come out of dry dock in Q2.
Hopefully that is helpful to you.
But she does have work in Q3 and we think – it's will stay and it's all relative in today's market have decent utilization in Q3.
We ought to be able to cover her cost in Q3.
Okay.
So you have good utilization in 3Q.
Okay.
Yes.
And then when do you start recognizing cost on the Q5000.
We will start recognizing cost when she gets over here.
Okay.
This quarter? Some expenses associated with maintaining a crew before she goes to work.
So we will start having some expenses hit our P&amp;L.
I don't have the number off the top of my head.
But she should arrive here mid-August to early September and the cost from that point on will be expensed.
Okay.
All right.
And so assuming that you don't stack any of these vessels how much of your well intervention direct costs are considered variable versus fixed? Well if you look at it from a cash standpoint almost all of it is variable Chase in all honesty.
We can reduce some spending and are looking to continuing to look at ways to reduce spending.
If you look at it from a gross profit standpoint most of the $100 million of depreciation we have associated with the well intervention business.
So that is pretty fixed right? Right.
Okay.
And so then if you would stack a well intervention vessel what are the best prospects and then what does the timing look like for potential stacking? Well at the moment we are not planning on stacking any but we are always looking – I mean this is a conversation we have weekly looking at the schedule and planning for this.
If we had to say that right now as I said we are not planning to stack any but a likely candidate would be the 534 and take some of the work off of it and put it on one of the other vessels that we have.
And that's probably the most likely candidate possibly something to do with the Seawell later on in the year.
Okay.
And then so what are the associated stacking costs of the 534 on a dollar per day.
Yes.
I don't have that number handy.
We would obviously reduce the crew back to a minimal crew and get rid of a lot of the services and stuff on there.
But I don't have that number handy with me.
Okay.
Last -- Flip I think that's a hard number to come up with.
Because it depends on what the schedule looks like at the time and whether or not you are going to cold stack her or warm stack her or hot stack her.
And that would depend on the schedule at the time.
And it seems like if you were to do something first you would kind of warm stack it or hot stack it fair? That's what we talked about is a warm stack if we do any of it.
Okay.
All right.
Last question is on the termination payments in the first quarter.
Could you give us an idea of roughly kind of what those termination payments were during the first quarter? Yes.
Termination fee was around $11 million.
And it more or less offset the idle days plus the lower rates we had to accept on the 534 when we had to try to fill the gap.
Right.
Okay.
That's all I have.
Thank you.
Okay.
And our next question comes from the line of Martin Malloy with Johnson Rice.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
I apologize if I missed on the last – with the last question.
What was the timing in terms of when you would make a decision potentially on the Helix 534 and warm stacking it? Well like I said we look at it all the time.
But we have a dry dock schedule for the vessel in July.
So if we were going to do it we would probably try to make that decision prior to the dry dock.
Okay.
And I have a question on the tax rate.
It was extremely low during the quarter.
Can you talk about what we should model going forward? Yes Marty.
I think for the year we are probably looking at single-digit tax rates the way the year is shaping up.
We are going to make more money in overseas jurisdictions and not too much money in the U.S.
which is the highest tax rate jurisdiction we operate in.
So when we look out at where we are currently forecasting our profits to fall jurisdiction wise we believe we are going to be in single digits.
Now given the volatility that we are operating in these days there could be a lot of movement in that.
But we still expect it to be much much lower than historical rates that you have seen that Helix booked in the past.
So I would count somewhere in the single digits Marty.
Okay.
And the Skandi Constructor lease can you remind us when that expires? Yes.
It's – in the Robotics business they are all chartered vessels and they stagger off whenever.
But you ask about the Skandi Constructor on the Well Intervention side which working over in the North Sea.
And we can get that back in April of next year so about a year from now.
We have to make the decision at the backend of this year but we can give it back in April of next year.
Great.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And our next comes from the line of George O'Leary with Tudor Picking &amp; Holt Company.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Great job on the quarter from a cost cutting perspective.
Just curious you mentioned supply chain cost cuts.
Can you hear me.
Sorry.
It looked like my phone cut off.
You mentioned supply chain cost cuts.
Just curious from a timing standpoint when those supply chain cost cuts could actually start showing up? Is there a delay in negotiating those with your vendors? Or is that second half weighted? And then maybe any color on potential magnitude of some of the cost reductions you could get from vendors? I think it's pretty early to – go ahead Cliff.
Okay.
Well from a supply chain standpoint we started looking at that back – I don't know probably in – seriously in January.
And so those are ongoing all the time.
And there is a whole list of things that we are keeping track of and what we are saving and how we do our business better et cetera dealing with our vendors asking getting better pricing out of our vendors.
This goes on daily but it started in January and it's continuing on through now.
I don't have a number with me of what we save to date but that is our continuing exercise.
I think that everyone is doing it including us.
Great.
That is helpful color.
As you look at – as you look at your Well Intervention assets and are picking up some fill-in spot work for example like with H534 in Q2 and Q3 are rates under pressure for that spot work? Are they below what that vessel is historically contracted at? And again any color on magnitude would be great but just some general commentary around that would be helpful.
On the 530 in particular I mean we are seeing pressure on rates and have for this year constantly.
And so we have some reduced rates compared to what we would have been getting this time last year.
I won't say substantial but in the 10% range that we have been seeing.
And that's helpful.
And then are customers also pushing back on contracted vessel rates or have you seen those largely honored up to this point.
A bit of both a bit of both.
And depending what the contract is and what we had to trade and what they had to trade for it.
Some we have maintained the rates as they are for 2015 because we were able to and discounted going forward a couple of years.
Others we haven't had to give any on and some we have.
It's a mixed bag.
All right.
Thanks very much for the color guys.
And we have no further questions on the telephone lines at this time.
I will turn the call back to you gentlemen.
Okay.
Thanks for joining us today.
We very much appreciate your interest and participation and look forward to having you on our second quarter 2015 call in July.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Afterwards we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Tuesday July 21 2015.
I would now turn the conference over to Erik Staffeldt Finance and Treasury Director.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone.
And thanks for joining us today on our conference call for our second quarter 2015 earnings release.
Participating on this call for Helix today is Owen Kratz our CEO; Tony Tripodo our CFO; and Alisa Johnson our General Counsel.
Scotty Sparks our Executive Vice President of Operations is traveling on Helix business.
Hopefully you have had an opportunity to review our press release and the related slide presentation released last night.
If you do not have a copy of these materials both can be accessed through the Investor Relations page on our website at www.helixesg.com.
The press release can be accessed under the Press Releases tab and the Slide Presentation can be accessed by clicking on today's webcast icon.
Before we begin our prepared remarks Alisa Johnson will make a statement regarding forward-looking information.
Alisa? During this conference call we anticipate making certain projections and forward-looking statements based on our current expectations.
All statements in this call or in the associated presentation other than statements of historical facts are forward-looking statements and are made under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Our actual future results may differ materially from our projections and forward-looking statements due to a number of variety of factors including those set forth in our slide two and in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2014.
Also during this call certain non-GAAP financial disclosures may be made.
In accordance with SEC rules the final slides of our presentation materials provide a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP measures to comparable GAAP financial measures.
The reconciliation along with this presentation the earnings press release our annual report and a replay of this broadcast are available on our website.
Owen? Good morning everybody.
Let start right out with slides five and six which is the high level summary of the Q1 results.
From a bottomline perspective Q2 represented a step back from Q1 results.
These results were directly attributed to very low utilization level for our two Gulf of Mexico well intervention vessels the Q4000 and the H534.
The Q4000 spent most of the quarter in regulatory drydock longer than we had anticipated.
The H534 was idle for 41 days in the quarter as well.
The low utilization in the Gulf of Mexico fleet was partially offset by much better performance in our North Sea base well intervention business as Well Enhancer was fully utilized in the Skandi Constructor went to work in late April and stayed productively employed the remainder of the quarter.
The Production Facilities business improved over Q1 while Robotics slipped slightly.
As a result Q2 EBITDA came in at $36 million versus $51 million of EBITDA in Q1.
Turning to slide six more on the Robotics business.
We did achieved decent utilization on our Robotics fleet at 81%.
However lower day rates for our Robotics spread resulted in a relatively slight regression in results.
I'm pleased to report that we took delivery of the Grand Canyon II in May and she went to work immediately thereafter on trenching project on the Baltic Sea.
On the slide seven from a balance sheet perspective our cash and liquidity remains strong.
Cash increased to $500 million as we drew down the Q5000 loan facility in conjunction with taking delivery of the vessel at the end of April.
Cash along with the unused portion of our credit facility has our liquidity levels at $1 billion.
Net debt at quarter end was $294 million.
I will now turn the call over to Erik for an in-depth discussion of our contracting service results.
Erik Staffeldt has been with the company since 2009 will take a more prominent role in Investor Relations activities.
Many of you worked with Terrence Jamerson for the past few years and I am pleased to say that we have promoted Terrence to head up our Production Facilities business.
Erik? Thanks Owen.
Moving on to slide nine.
In our Q2 results did take a step back from Q1 as we continue to see the effects of the weak oil industry on our performance magnified by our scheduled vessel downtime.
Our revenue in the second quarter decreased 12% over our first quarter revenue to $166 million.
Our gross profit margin decreased from 80% in Q1 to 15% in Q2 driven by the decrease in revenues.
Weaker utilization in our well intervention business unit was a primary driver of lower revenues as the Q4000 was in drydock 64 days 19 days longer than planned.
This was partially offset by improved results from our North Sea based well intervention unit.
Our Robotics business unit revenue was lower by 6% quarter-over-quarter driven by lower selling rates of our chartered vessel fleet.
In the second quarter we increased our chartered vessel fleet to five vessels with the scheduled delivery of the Grand Canyon II.
The performance of our Production Facilities business unit improved slightly with higher revenue and with no downtime in the second quarter compared to the first quarter and with lower [R&amp;F] [ph].
Moving on to slide 10 for our Well Intervention business unit.
In the Gulf of Mexico the Q4000 was in drydock for the 64 days 19 days longer than planned.
We experienced the combination of standard shipyard delays and delays in the refurbishment of the Q4000 thrusters.
H534 was 50 -- was -- utilization was 55% for the quarter vessel was idle over 41 days of the quarter.
Work scheduled during the quarter for the vessel was delayed as we were not able to fill the gap.
The H534 is currently idle and it’s scheduled for drydock during the second half of Q3.
IRS #2 our spare rental intervention riser system was on hire the entire quarter.
IRS #1 entered the rental market in early June on a 210-day contract.
On a positive note both of these rental units are under contract for the rest of the year.
We took delivery of our newest well intervention vessel the Q5000 at the end of April.
The vessel began her transit to the Gulf of Mexico in mid-May.
She is expected to arrive in early August upon completion of commissioning of the vessel and integration of the ROVs and intervention system.
The vessel is expected to be available for work in early Q4.
In the North Sea our utilization increased to 84% during Q2.
This number does not include the Seawell which was out of service during her life extension drydock.
The Well Enhancer was again fully utilized during the quarter.
The Skandi Constructor began operations on 120-day campaign at the end of April after being dockside most of Q1 and most of April.
Moving on to slide 11 for our Robotics review.
The results of our Robotics business unit remain consistent quarter-over-quarter.
The utilization of our ROV and trencher fleet was the same in Q2 as in Q1 61%.
We typically benefit from the seasonal increase in utilization during the second quarter driven by spot vessel work and work on customer vessels.
This did not materialize in Q2 as it has in prior years.
The chartered vessel fleet utilization decreased to 81% in the second quarter despite an increase in our number of days work.
During the second quarter we increased our chartered vessel fleet to five vessels with the delivery of the Grand Canyon II.
After short integration period the vessel was mobilized with the T750 trencher on a cable burial project in the North Baltic Sea with work carrying over to Q3.
The Grand Canyon T1200 trencher and iTrencher were fully utilized for the quarter working on a power cable burial project offshore Qatar.
The Olympic Canyon was fully utilized in India during the quarter.
The Deep Cygnus with the T1500 worked for 57 days on a cable burial projects in the North Sea.
Rem Installer based in the Gulf of Mexico worked 49 days on various ROV projects.
Moving over to slide 12 I will leave this slide detailing vessel utilization for your reference.
Moving on to slide 14 for review of our key balance sheet metrics our funded debt at June 30th increased to $812 million driven by $250 million Q5000 term loan drawn in conjunction with the delivery of the vessel.
Starting in Q3 the combined amount of principal payments required by our term loan will reduce our funded debt balance by $16.4 million quarter.
Moving on to slide 15 it provides an update of our gross and net debt levels at year-end and June 30th.
Our net debt position increased to $294 million in the second quarter from $131 million in the first quarter.
Our cash position in the second quarter increased by $85 million with the proceeds received from the Q5000 term loan net of CapEx spending.
Our liquidity at June 30th comprised of cash and revolver availability was approximately $1 billion.
During the second quarter we amended our credit facility leverage covenant to provide greater access to our revolver during this cyclical downturn.
I will now turn over the call to Tony for discussion on our 2015 outlook.
Tony? Thanks Erik.
Moving over to slide 17 the disappointing second quarter and our lower-for-longer outlook has led us to revise our full year 2015 forecasted range of $160 million to $190 million.
That being said we should see an improvement in quarter three over quarter two as a result of North Sea fleet expected to be fully utilized with the exception of the Seawell in our Canyon fleet looks to keep busy as well in Q3.
While this improvement in quarter three is expected it is not of course fully assured.
The key for the full year revolves around filling utilization gaps for our well intervention fleet particularly in quarter four.
On to slide 18 which provides more detailed guidance on specific assets I'll just mention a couple of the more notable items.
The H534 is scheduled for regulatory drydock in Q3 depending upon how work materializes or not.
The H534 maybe warm stack and any work that develops for her maybe moved over to the Q5000.
The Seawell is likely to be warm stack for the remainder of 2015 after she completes her refurbishment project.
We are warm stacking these vessels for now as both the Seawell and the H534 have opportunities in 2016.
We have not made a decision yet on whether to extend the charter on the Skandi Constructor based on how potential work develops for that vessel beyond the charter expiry of March 16.
In general utilization for the Robotics fleet looks good in quarter three but we expect a normal seasonal drop off in Q4.
Our backlog as of June 30th held steady at $2.1 billion.
Our forecasted 2015 CapEx -- I'm now at slide 20 remains essentially the same at $365 million with most of the spending associated with the Q5000 completion which is almost all behind us now as well as the two vessels under construction for Petrobras.
The Q5000 is currently in transit as Erik mentioned to the Gulf of Mexico and is expected to arrive here in the next couple of weeks.
Upon arrival we are planning to complete commissioning and as mentioned earlier we hope to put it at work in Q4 ahead of her scheduled start date with BP next April.
We have reached agreement with the shipyard to the Q7000 slow down and delay delivery of this vessel until 2017.
This will allow us to defer over $200 million of CapEx from 2016 and 2017 and more importantly avoid bringing the vessel to market in the current environment.
I'll skip slides 21 to 22 leave them for your reference and now turn the call over to Owen for closing remarks.
Owen? Thanks Tony.
Well no doubt Q2 was a sloppy quarter for Helix as both the general market malaise and the Q4000 drydocking had a major impact on our results.
I’ve characterized the current market environment as having a kind of bouncing along the bottom field to it.
That being said there's a lot more dialogue ongoing with our customers for well intervention work and activities in 2016.
If a lot of this work materializes for us we could see a bounce back in our well intervention business next year which would also benefit from the commencement of the BP contract.
We believe the well intervention activity will pick up over time.
We just can't be certain as to the timing.
However we do see at least a potential for some recovery in 2016.
We’ll have to see what happens as we go through this next budgeting cycle by the industry.
2015 has been characterized by drastic level spending cuts work cancellations or deferrals by our clients.
The entire industry supply chain is under pressure to reduce cost to compensate for the customers reduced level of cash flow due to the oil price collapse.
Helix has reduced total headcount so far in the company by 20% lowered offshore wage packages as well as negotiated discounts from our vendors.
The entire industry is rebasing but this will take some time to fully realize.
The immediate focus for us has to be on number one maintaining adequate liquidity to complete our current capital obligations which are primarily the construction of the Siem Helix I and II as well as the Q7000 And second we need to continue to focus on being a cash positive from our operations as possible.
We’re also in constant dialogue with our clients working to find ways to preserve currently contracted work and facilitate ways for future work to be budgeted and done.
As has been widely circulated in the news Petrobras launched a major effort to reduce its overall spending outlays in light of the macroeconomic factors affecting our industry.
It’s our understanding that Petrobras has reached out to many of the service companies it does business with seeking assistance in this effort.
Petrobras has reached out to us as well and we’re currently in discussions with them to figure out a way we can help them but also make sense for us as well.
We’ll inform the market of anything is finalized that’s materially different from our prior commentary on the contracts.
This current situation in our industry is looking like a lower-for-longer scenario and this premise over the next year or two.
This downturn will be transformative for our industry.
Strong company is taking aggressive steps to manage costs.
We’ll emerge stronger in the long run but it will take time.
For now the process has to be managed day by day and we’ll share what we know when we know it and we’ll try to avoid forecasting what is for now unknowable.
But just take it from us we’re on top of it.
With that Erik I’ll turn it back over for questions.
Okay.
Operator we’re ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Chase Mulvehill.
Your line is open.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning Chase.
So I guess let’s talk about under the lower-for-longer scenario.
How many quarters do you think the Seawell and H534 could be warm stacked? Difficult to tell right now.
As I said we do see the work out there.
There is work but it’s just the propensity of the clients to be willing to spend the money to get it done.
We don’t know when that’s going to happen.
And I’m afraid before we could give anything definitive we’re just going to have to wait and see what the budgeting process with their clients holds for us.
Okay.
So as… Owen let me add to that.
I think it’s more likely than not both vessels will be warmstacked rest of this year.
However the H534 has confirmed backlog for 2016.
It’s not a lot but it’s some.
And both vessels have opportunities that they are bidding onto.
So I think there is certainly the H534 should go back to work next year and the Seawell is going to be dependent upon whether some of these bids get confirmed or not.
Okay.
And what’s the associated warm stacking cost? From the warm stacking cost we feel we could reduce our operating cash expenses by two-thirds to 75%.
Okay.
And so I guess last unrelated follow-up.
So what about the current spot day rates on the well intervention side? Have they taken another leg down recently or they stabilized? I don't think that they’ve taken another step down.
I think what's going on right now is we are just seeing different clients at different times looking for that first step down.
But we haven't seen a second step down.
Okay.
All right.
So it’s just marking the market is kind of what you're seeing in your current results.
I think some clients were earlier jumping on the bandwagon of pressing for discounts and others are now following soon.
Okay.
Got it.
I will turn the mic over.
Thank you.
Our next question today comes from the line of Joe Gibney.
Your line is open.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks.
Just following up on the 534 Tony you referenced that there is confirmed backlog so I’m just trying to get a sense of when that backlog starts or is that subject to negotiation as well? Well.
Well it does have -- it does have backlog for the rest of the year for projects that customers are seeking to delay.
However the question there is can we move some of that backlog onto the Q5.
So that's one of the variables.
It does have backlog in 2016.
It is firm it’s contracted.
I wouldn’t say it's extensive but there's other work it’s bidding for.
I would expect the H534 to be going back to work if not in Q4 in 2016 Joe.
Okay.
And just in terms of time to get these assets back into the fleet out of warm stack saw some of the OpEx reduction you gain but what is the timeframe to bring it back out? Is it roughly a quarter is that a reasonable assumption to get recalibrating get the asset ready to go? Go ahead Tony.
No go ahead Owen.
You are better to answer that question than me.
It is much quicker than a quarter.
The people are still available.
The vessel is warm stack.
It’s still manned with the navigating crude so that we can even -- we can move it.
So it’s a relatively quick process.
I would say two to three weeks.
It will probably take us longer to engineer the work that needs be done than it would be to ramp the vessel back up.
Okay.
And last one for me it sounds like a fluid situation on working with Petrobras but is an elongated delivery schedule possible or some sort of change in contract for the same vessels possible or sort of all things on the tables as you are trying to negotiating to kind of navigate the current situation? Are you speaking about a specific client or in general? Just Petrobras specifically as it pertains to your contracts with SEM is sort of an elongated delivery a possibility now for these two boats or change in contract structure just trying to understand maybe what you're alluding to or is it still obviously a big work in progress? It’s actually a big work in progress right now.
We are in dialogue right now.
So there is not a whole lot I’d like to talk about it right now other than to say that we do have very firm strong contracts with Petrobras.
So it’s a matter of how far are we willing to go to work with them and of course they are a big client.
I see a big future with them.
So we are trying our best to come up with something that approaches a win-win or lose-lose.
Sure.
All right.
Appreciate it.
Thanks guys.
I will turn it back.
Our next question comes from the line of Ole Slorer.
Your line is open.
Please proceed with your question.
Yes.
Thanks a lot.
Wonder whether you could just help us understand the components of the delta in the EBITDA outlook.
When it comes to the well intervention side how much of it is driven by increased downtime in drydocking and are there kind of operationalist specific items versus customers delaying well intervention programs? Ole I would say that the majority relates to market environment versus internal specific issues.
I’d say the drydocking on the Q4 cost us $4 million to $5 million of this reduced forecast.
But I think almost everything else really relates to market activity issues.
Okay.
So based on previous cycles or discussions with customers do you see -- when it comes to the timing of resurgence of well intervention clearly this is largely at least temporarily a discretionary spend on behalf of your customers although clearly at some point they needed to catch up again.
So how do you sense that that’s going to play out and maybe a related question regarding that? Do you see that you're losing market share to contracted rigs that are being used for well intervention or is it an overall kind of lack of activity and deferral of maintenance of wells? I will take a shot at that Tony.
Ole you mentioned a lot of factors there and each one of them plays their part.
But by far and away on several investor presentations in the past we’ve always tried to emphasize people that utilization drives our margin and profitability far more than rate does.
Right now what we are seeing in the market is certainly the rates are under pressure but we have a lot of room between us and drill rigs on rates and we also have the efficiency gains over drill rigs.
So the drill rigs are not really hurting us.
What is hurting us right now is that there's just been a flat moratorium and mandate from producer corporate offices to not spend this year.
And it’s caused a lot of projects not to go forward and in quite a few cases they have been terminated and that’s what we are seeing right now.
We are also seeing because our guys are constantly working with the engineering staffs of our clients.
So we are seeing the backlog of the work that does need to be done.
So we do know it’s out there.
It is just when are the producers going to release some spending.
My hope is that ‘15 was sort of a reactionary and it is severe in order to rebase the industry out of better cost.
But the work is going to have to get done and my hope is that some of this work that we are saying at least on the drawing boards for next year does make it through the budgeting process.
And I would agree with that given the maintenance aspects of a lot of the stuff.
So anyway thanks for that.
Our next question comes from the line of Martin Malloy.
Your line is now open.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning.
Good morning.
With the -- upon completion of the newbuild program assuming market conditions remain relatively at these levels kind of bouncing along the bottom as you described can you give us a range of where you think your net debt might end up? Erik you want to or Tony? Yeah.
I will take that.
Is that the end of our capital expansion you mean? Yes.
Okay.
Obviously we stated before that through the next couple years with the market in the condition that it is that we would be consuming our cash position.
We also have a fairly aggressive payback of our principal.
So I believe that our net debt position would be somewhere south of $400 million at the end of the campaign.
I think it is worth noting that our gross debt right now is -- as of right now I don’t think our gross debt is forecasted to increase given the amount of principal repayment that we have each year.
Okay.
That’s a correct statement.
Yes.
It’s fair statement.
I think our own internal model suggests that we peaked on that.
If you look at capital spending this year the majority of our CapEx spending for this year is behind us.
So the majority of capital spending going forward for the next two years particularly with the deferral of the Q7 is really related to the two Petrobras vessels which are under contract.
Okay.
And then I was wondering -- could you provide us with an update as far as the alliance with OneSubsea and how that's going? And any commentary you might want to offer about how the Subsea 7 OneSubsea alliance might impact you all? Well the alliance has already impacted us quite a bit and that it’s opened up a lot of market areas that we weren’t looking at before.
So along with OneSubsea we’re now penetrating those areas.
And on top of that we’re much stronger when we go in offering an integrated solution along with OneSubsea than we’re on our own.
So it’s helped us there already immensely at least in the dialogue.
But like I said before and until somebody decides to start spending some money it is all talk but it does hold a lot of potential and promise.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of [Haithum Nokta] [ph].
Your line is open.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi.
Good morning.
Owen I wanted to just follow up on your earlier comments alluding to kind of moratorium of capital spending.
Can you kind of compare and contrast how the majors are acting in your conversations versus maybe the smaller independents? Well the independents use us much more on a spot basis.
So therefore we typically don’t get called by the independents unless there is a real need.
So the behavior and the relationship between us and the smaller independents has really remained unchanged.
Where we’re seeing the most pressure on being asked to work with them is from the majors and the large independents and that’s really consumed most of our year.
Okay.
Thanks for that.
And I guess just switching gears a little bit on the robotic side can you give a little color on what happened in 2Q? I guess I am a little surprised that there wasn’t at least a modest kind of tailwind seasonally following 1Q.
Other than just the lack of activity and the cancellation of work that’s all I can tell you that would be my best guess at this point.
We are not seeing any encroachment.
I am sorry.
Go ahead.
I would just add I don’t think that we are seeing an encroachment on our market share by the competition.
Rates have softened so that’s part of it.
And we did pick up the extra vessel so that might have impacted our utilization.
But other than that the utilization was not that bad for the second quarter.
So it’s mostly rate related.
Haithum just to elaborate a little bit further on that when you compare second quarter this year let’s say even to second quarter last year I think we referenced it in our utilization chart the number of days that we had spot vessel work associated with our Robotics.
In Q2 of 2014 we had 160 days of spot vessel work in 2014.
This year we only had 13 days.
And so that work that typically happens during this time of the year has not materialized due to the obviously weak market conditions.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Praveen Narra.
Your line is open.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi good morning.
It obviously doesn't look this way given the outlook for more activity in 2016.
But when you think about the breakeven analysis on cold stacking of vessel how do you go about thinking about that process? And really at what point does it make sense to cold stack? What length of time does a vessel need to be idle to make that balanced? It varies from vessel to vessel.
The process that you go through is you just reverse calculate the number of days that you need at the expected rates to breakeven.
It’s really that simple.
It doesn’t take too many days to make it worthwhile bringing the vessel out.
Okay.
So are we talking quarters instead of years? Again it just depends on what materializes through this budgeting process.
I think it’s a pretty much of a given that the 534 and Seawell will remain stacked through the end of the year.
And then next year we just don’t have to wait and see what the budget holds.
Yes.
Let me add to that.
I think there is a big difference between warm stacking and cold stacking of vessel in terms of the ability to bring that vessel back to work in a reasonable period of time.
I think it’s way too early for us to consider cold stacking any vessels particularly with the prospects that are out there for 2016.
So really from our standpoint it’s not in our thinking right now.
Okay.
When I heard stacked I just sort of assumed one stack because cold stack isn’t in… I don’t think it’s in the card.
Yes it’s not in the cards Owen right now.
I just think we have I hate to use this word too many opportunities for 2016 to consider cold stacking at Seawell or any H534.
And cold stack really renders the vessel difficult to bring back to light so to speak versus the warn stacking.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
I guess to that point I guess can you give us the sense of how much of the utilization declines we have seen this year have been due to the slowdown of P&amp;A versus other activities? I don’t have that breakdown but it depends on the region as well.
In the North Sea there was a larger drop-off on P&amp;A than in the Gulf of Mexico because the Gulf of Mexico is more regulatory driven than the UK is.
Production enhancement I would say well I would say in general the Gulf of Mexico has been more active than the North Sea.
The North Sea has really taken a big hit.
Okay.
So does that come back next year then? Is that part of the opportunities that are out there? The P&amp;A side? Yes when the Gulf of Mexico I think is -- because it’s regulatory driven it will be in the North Sea.
I don’t think that the P&amp;A comes back strongly next year.
In the North Sea I think it’s more of a question of producers wanting to add to their production.
So I think it’s the production enhancement that you see increase next year.
Okay.
Perfect.
Thank you very much for the color.
Our next question comes from the line of [Willie Malfoy] [ph].
Your line is open.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
I was just looking that the backlog was flat quarter-over-quarter.
Can you go over what was booked and when you should realize what was booked? Well I would say this.
I wouldn’t read too much into that.
I mean with $166 million of revenues it’s really a rounding error.
We did book some work but nothing significant.
Okay.
So how much is the backlog expected in the second half of ’15? I would say the vast majority of our backlog is beyond 2015.
Okay.
So in the North Sea with the stacking of the Seawell will that impact whether you renew the Skandi? Yes.
That’s a difficult one.
Yes and no.
The vessels the Skandi does not have diving on board and the Seawell does.
So the types of work that they’re employed on are really two separate markets.
That’s why I’m not trying to hedge the answer.
It’s just they work different markets.
Okay.
All right.
And so with the stacking it’s just the last one how quickly can you all get it down the daily OpEx? Again that’s by region.
It depends on how you’ve contracted your employees.
Right now we’re going through what’s call the redundancy process here in the North Sea which takes a considerable amount of time compared to the Gulf of Mexico.
So the Gulf of Mexico is fairly quick process which we’re going through right now.
In North Sea we will probably drag on until we won’t see the full impacts of downsizing until the fourth quarter? Okay.
And the 534 it’s going to do the work and then be stacked after the 45 days possibly? After the dry dock.
Okay.
Not before.
Okay.
No.
Yeah.
So after the dry dock.
After the dry dock correct.
Okay.
That’s what I thought.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
You have a good one.
Thanks.
[Operator Instructions] We have a follow-up question from the line of Chase Mulvehill.
Your line is open.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you for letting me in.
So real quick on the Robotics.
As we kind of move forward to 2016 can you talk about kind of tendering activity you’re seeing and kind of the puts and takes of pricing and utilization as we move into 2016 versus 2015? All right.
Chase let me take that one.
I think it's important to know that historically we've always had short visibility windows in the Robotics business and it's no different today.
Typically you don't have visibility out any longer than six months and often time is shorter than that.
So I’m going to say the current environment is no different.
So it’s very difficult to comment about visibility in 2016 for Robotics given that how the business operates.
So right now it's way too early to tell how 2016 may or may not shape up.
Okay.
So what are you seeing on the leading edge for pricing for this business? I would say pricing is under pressure as Owen mentioned.
We’re having good utilization.
We’re winning work.
But again customers are expecting and demanding lower costs.
So we are having to suffer through that.
We do have some pricing leverage outside the oilfield space.
When it comes to trenching we've been able to maintain decent pricing in the renewable energy space but if it’s energy related we’re obviously seeing pressure there too.
Okay.
So if we were to think about leading-edge pricing are we talking down 10% 20% 30%? It varies job-to-job.
I’m guessing right now of top my head Chase 15% to 20%.
I think it’s fair to say currently that most producers are going through a process of trying.
They’re requesting a 25% reduction of course that’s not going to happen.
You negotiate somewhere in between that and then that amount is further reduced by your offset of what you’re able to do with lowering your cost structure.
That’s why in my comments I said it’s going to take a while for everything to rebase and really see where margins fall out.
Okay.
And given the recent $10 plus kind of sliding crude prices over the last month have your customers now come back and requested more pricing concessions or is it still just too early to kind of have those discussions here? No.
It’s like I said before.
I think what we’re seeing is client [Technical Difficulty] taking their turn coming as and asking for the first pricing concessions.
We’re not seeing a second trench and we have good relations with the clients.
And I think for the most part they have -- our efforts to work with them have been well received.
So knock on word I don’t anticipate further rounds of concessions.
Okay.
Awesome.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from line of George O'Leary.
Your line is open.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning guys.
I was just wondering if you could just kind of characterize the North Sea market versus the Gulf of Mexico market and if you have any indications based on discussions with customers as to if one of these markets you may have already seen a trough from an intervention project standpoint and which market as you look out going forward may rebound first as we progress into 2016? This is a real wag but I would say that the -- I would anticipate the Gulf of Mexico market recovering quicker than the North Sea market because of it’s a lower cost to produce there and change occurs little more rapidly in the Gulf of Mexico.
It’s also dominated by more independent so I think which are little more focused on enhancing production and generating some cash.
So my guess is that we’re going to see a better rebound in the Gulf than the North Sea next year.
And then you guys are currently precluded from doing P&amp;A in certain markets as you can't pull tubing open water is there any progress in that front? Are you guys working to find a solution to where that segment of the market opens back up or does this downturn kind of kick that can down the road as you kind of have to focus on the current market more than the outlook? Well just to clarify a little bit.
There is no region that precludes or prohibits pulling tubing open water.
That's really left to the producer or client preferences as to whether or not they want to do that.
And we are working on solutions for being able to satisfy the client requirements even of those that don't want to pull it open water.
We’re working on solutions for being able to pull that tubing as well.
So as far as pulling tubing is concerned I don't think that that’s a major hindrance for us especially once we get the Q7000 being -- right now being able to pull tubing in the North Sea.
In general it’s more difficult for the Q7000 to do it easily.
Okay.
Thanks for the color guys.
Our next question comes from the line of [Bill Zalem] [ph].
Your line is open.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you.
First question is relative to the opportunities that you've referenced for 2016 would you talk a little bit about the split between the well intervention discussions and any Robotics discussions? I -- just on a very general sense and I’ll turn it over to Erik because he can probably set better light on it.
But in general well intervention fell off quicker here than Robotics because Robotics is a construction support activity and therefore there were a number of legacy projects caring Robotics going forward.
I see intervention picking up before Robotics again and that’s driven by the eventually the producers are going to want it -- generate more production therefore they going to want to go back into their wells and doe the production enhancement.
Yeah.
I agree Owen.
I think well intervention as Owen mentioned fell faster and will bounce back quicker.
And lot has to do with well intervention as a bigger ticket cost for the customer.
So when you are looking at cost cut major dollars the well intervention project cost to customer anywhere of north of $500 000 a day.
However ultimately and I think this is a very important point and attribute of our business.
Ultimately when -- the customer has to start spending money again or they’re going to deplete themselves out of business and it is likely that the first place they are spending money is production enhancement.
And a lot of the P&amp;A deferrals that they have managed to accomplish.
Well that’s a deferrals it’s not a permanent reduction.
So we believe and it is logical to assume that well intervention will bounce back quicker.
I think there is an interesting note here in the North Sea as well because lot of this although it’s not a prescriptive regulatory environment here.
The government actually does not want to see cessation of production on fields.
So I think there will I oppose to the Gulf where there is a regulation pressure to increase P&amp;A I would actually say it’s a reverse here there is a certain government pressure not to accelerate P&amp;A and they would much prefer to see the production enhance than in cessation of production avoided.
That’s helpful.
Allow me to shift if I may to the Q4000.
I don’t believe that in this call you have talked much about the utilization that you expect here in the near term specifically in the Q3 and Q4.
Would you share with us what your window into that is at this point? I’ll take that Owen.
I think Q3 we are optimistic or positive that the Q4 will have high levels of utilization but it’s not a 100% locked down.
Q4 looks pretty good.
There is no other Q4 in the world right now either.
The Q5 is on the way but Q4 is without a doubt the preeminent intervention vessel in the world.
So I guess the reason we don’t really talked about it is that we almost take it’s a utilization for granted.
And is there a seasonality that we should be thinking about with Q4 you mentioned? Do you think there is good works in Q4 but is it less than Q3 due to a normal level of seasonality or is that not really a factor there? That’s a changing landscape.
I think what the producer are looking for is to derisk their operations.
And of course when they do work through the wintertime I think they are going to be pressing for contractual changes as to how weather is treated how much flexibility do you have for going during certain weather windows etcetera.
So I’d say that’s a little bit influx right now but you’re going to see a little bit more pressure on returning to more of a -- there is a lot more demand during the season than throughout the year now.
Thank you.
And then one final question that you had the taxes that flow through the P&amp;L even though you had a net loss.
Would you discuss that dichotomy please? Yes.
Sure.
When we have this kind of levels of pre-tax earnings slight nuisances and where you make money will have a dramatic impact on your tax rate.
That being said for the entire year we’re expecting kind of mid-teens type of tax rate.
A lot of depends on where our earnings ultimately play out North Sea versus Gulf of Mexico.
But for the entire year we are looking at approximately mid-teens tax rate.
Great.
Thank you gentlemen.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Gregory Lewis.
Your line is now open.
Please proceed with your question.
Yes.
Thank you.
And good morning.
Could we just dive a little bit more into the Robotics? I know you mentioned on the call the pricing was down call it 15%ish plus.
As we try to back into the revenue guidance for Robotics it looks like the second half is going to be similar to the first half.
So just thinking about that it seems like there should be a pickup in activity in the back half of the -- either in Q3 in terms of utilization.
Is that the right way to be thinking about that? I think we'll have Q3 that has the potential of doing marginally better and Q4 that will see a seasonal drop-off.
Okay.
All right.
Perfect.
And then just real quick I realize we’re coming up on the hour.
Just as we think about 2016 clearly you mentioned lower for longer on the call.
It seems like there is a real -- from your perspective there is the ability to really just put the brakes on maintenance CapEx.
Growth CapEx it is what it is it seems like there is going to be some delays.
There has been one delay.
There will probably be a couple more delays in terms of growth CapEx.
Is it fair to think that you can -- that Helix can get its on an ongoing maintenance CapEx? It seems like you'd be able to get it basically almost to nil in the $20 million range.
I mean it doesn't seem like there is -- is it right that there is no scheduled dry dockings for the next one to two years? Well our dry dockings are staggered.
So we will always have probably one or two in each year.
It’s rare that we have none.
Erik do you know what our dry dock schedule is right now for '16-'17? It just seems like we had a bunch of them.
I believe that there is one potentially schedule first for '16.
Correct.
Production vessel.
Okay.
All right guys.
Thank you very much for your time.
But you are correct in that once we complete these shipyard construction contracts our CapEx obviously comes way way down.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
There are currently no further questions on the phone lines at the moment.
Okay.
Well thank you very much for joining us today.
We very much appreciate your interest and participation and look forward to having you on our third quarter 2015 call in October.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask you please disconnect your lines.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Helix Energy Solutions Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Tuesday October 20 2015.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Erik Staffeldt Vice President of Finance and Accounting.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today on our conference call for our Q3 2015 earnings release.
Participating on this call for Helix today is Owen Kratz our CEO; Tony Tripodo our CFO; Alisa Johnson our General Counsel; and Scotty Sparks our Executive Vice President Operations.
Hopefully you’ve had an opportunity to review our press release and the related slide presentation released last night.
If you do not have a copy of these materials both can be accessed through our Investor Relations page on our website www.helixesg.com.
The press release can be accessed under the press releases tab and the slide presentation can be accessed by clicking on today's webcast icon.
Before we begin our prepared remarks Alisa Johnson will make a statement regarding forward-looking information.
Alisa? During this conference call we anticipate making certain projections and forward-looking statements based on our current expectations.
All statements in this conference call or in the associated presentation other than statements of historical facts are forward-looking statements and are made under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Our actual future results may differ materially from our projections and forward-looking statements due to a number and variety of factors including those set forth in our slide 2 and in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2014.
Also during this call certain non-GAAP financial disclosures may be made.
In accordance with SEC rules the final slides of our presentation materials provide a reconciliation of those non-GAAP measures to comparable GAAP financial measures.
The reconciliation along with this presentation the earnings press release our annual report and a replay of this broadcast are available on our website.
Owen will now make some opening remarks.
Good morning everyone.
We will start on slide 5 which is a high-level summary of Q3 results.
From a bottom-line perspective Q3 represented a decent improvement from Q2 results as EBITDA increased from $36 million in Q2 to $51 million in Q3.
The increase was primarily driven by increased profitability in our robotics business unit.
Robotics vessel utilization increased to 87% in Q3 led primarily by profitable trenching work in both the North Sea and Middle East.
The increased volume and profitable trenching work in the robotics segment drove the increased overall gross profit margin during the quarter from 15% to 18%.
Turning to slide 5 the well intervention business was a mixed bag regionally.
Although the Seawell remained idle during the entire quarter both the Well Enhancer and the Skandi Constructor saw very high levels of utilization and drove better performance in the North Sea region.
The Gulf of Mexico region was a different story.
The H534 remained idle the entire quarter and actually entered drydock in September while the Q4 realized only 67% utilization during Q3.
The Q5 arrived in the Gulf of Mexico from our long transit from Singapore.
She is completing her commissioning activities and we are expecting the vessel to enter service with contracted work this week.
In fact I believe she is leaving the dock this morning.
Onto slide 7 from a balance sheet perspective our cash level stood at $469 million at quarter-end.
Our $600 million revolving credit facility remained undrawn although access to the facility is restricted to $243 million at quarter-end due to our trailing 12-month EBITDA number.
Net debt at quarter-end was $307 million.
We paid $19 million of scheduled quarterly principal payments during the quarter.
I will now turn the call over to Scotty for an in-depth discussion of our operating results.
Thanks Owen.
Moving on to slide 9 in Q3 our results improved slightly from Q2 however we do continue to see the effects of a weak oil industry on our performance.
The revenue in the third quarter increased $16 million from our second quarter to $182 million.
Our gross profit margin increased from 15% in Q2 to 18% in Q3 driven by the increase in revenues to $32 million gross profit.
Increased activity in our UK-based well intervention robotics business unit was the primary driver for our increased revenue and gross profit.
Our productions facilities business unit performed as expected again with no required downtime in the third quarter.
Moving on to slide 10 for our well intervention business in the Gulf of Mexico the Q4000 had 67% utilization working on various projects with some idle days between projects.
The H534 was idle for the entire quarter and entered its scheduled drydock during September expected to complete mid-Q4.
We commenced the process of down manning the vessel for an anticipated warm stack period after drydock to reduce costs.
IRS no.
1 and IRS no.
2 our rental intervention riser systems are both on hire for the entire quarter.
Both units are under contract for the rest of the year.
Q5000 our newest well intervention vessel arrived in the Gulf of Mexico mid-August and as Owen mentioned the vessel is expected to go to work any day now.
In the North Sea the Skandi Constructor was fully utilized and the Well Enhancer achieved 91% utilization.
The Seawell completed the outservice period for the life extension drydock and accomplished six successful sea trials.
We have down-manned the vessel to minimum Coast Guard requirements and warm-stacked the vessel [indiscernible] the UK.
Moving on to slide 11 for our robotics review the results of our robotics business increased in the third quarter over Q2 due to 87% chartered vessel utilization.
During the third quarter we experienced good utilization across our entire vessel chartered fleet.
The utilization for our ROV and trencher fleets was at 59% slightly down from 61% in Q2.
The Grand Canyon T1200 trencher and i-Trencher were near full utilization for the quarter completing work on a power cable burial project offshore Qatar.
The vessel is now in transit to Brazil for its next client to undertake a trenching project.
The Grand Canyon II and T750 trencher performed 80-day utilization on power cable trenching work in the Baltic Sea.
The Deep Cygnus and T1500 trencher performed 88-day utilization on multiple trenching projects in the North Sea consisting of oil and gas pipeline trenching and power cable trenching projects.
The REM Installer based in the Gulf of Mexico worked for 62 days on various construction support projects.
The charter for this vessel rolls off mid-2016.
After eight years of successful work the Olympic Canyon departed India mid-September to transit back to the UK.
On arrival we would down man remove our equipment and cold stack the vessel reducing costs until the charter ends May 2016.
Over to slide 12 I will leave this slide detailing vessel utilization for your reference turning the call over to Erik for a more in-depth balance sheet discussion.
Moving onward to slide 14 for a review of our key balance sheet metrics our funded debt at September 30 decreased to $793 million reflecting our scheduled quarterly principal payments of $7.5 million on our term loan $8.9 million on our Q5000 loan and the semiannual principal payments on the MARAD debt of $2.9 million.
Moving on slide 15 provides an update on our gross and net debt levels at year-end and September 30.
Our net debt position increased slightly to $307 million in the third quarter from $294 million in the second quarter.
Our cash position in third quarter decreased by $31 million primarily driven by our scheduled debt principal payments of $19 million.
Our liquidity at September 30 was approximately $712 million comprised of cash balance of $469 million and revolver availability of $243 million.
Our decrease in liquidity is a product of reduced access to our revolver based on our bank leverage ratio.
I will now turn over the call to Tony for a discussion on our 2015 outlook.
Tony? Thanks Erik and let's move over to slide 17.
The better results in Quarter 3 are not expected to repeat in Quarter 4 primarily due to a sharp drop-off in expected results for the robotics business some of which is seasonal and a lot of which is a more delayed reaction to the downdraft in activity levels for the type of project-related activities that robotics is involved in.
On the well intervention side we expect the Gulf of Mexico region to improve as the Q4000 is expected to have near-full utilization during the quarter and the Q5 is expected to enter service as early as today with newly contracted work as well as the transfer of backlog from the H534 so we expect the Q4 and the Q5 at least from this point on to stay busy the rest of the quarter.
We plan on warm stacking the H534 the remainder of the year.
Furthermore the Q5000 has incremental opportunities for work in advance of its scheduled start date with BP next April.
The North Sea well intervention fleet will see a seasonal drop-off in activity along with being impacted by the low activity levels in the North Sea.
Both the Well Enhancer and Skandi Constructor are expected to work into November but unless work develops all three North Sea-based vessels including the Seawell which is warm stacked now will be idled from about mid-November on for the rest of the year.
We decided to extend the Skandi Constructor with the new rate structure effective mid-October so we will have access to that vessel under a very cost-effective arrangement all the way through March 2017 as we have certain opportunities that only the Skandi Constructor can work on.
As I said a new charter arrangement was effective mid-October.
Slide 18 provides a more detailed outlook on our well intervention assets.
As Scotty mentioned two of our intervention riser systems are under contract on a rental basis for the remainder of 2015 and our backlog as of September 30 stood at $1.8 billion.
On slide 20 our forecasted 2015 CapEx spending remains the same at $365 million with most of the spending associated with the Q5000 completion which as of the end of the quarter was almost entirely behind us as well as the two vessels under construction for Petrobras.
As we mentioned last quarter we have reached agreement with the shipyard to slow down construction and delay delivery of the Q7000 with delivery currently estimated for mid-to-late 2017.
Owen will comment on this some more later.
And this will allow us to defer over $200 million of CapEx from 2016 to 2017 and avoid bringing the vessel to market in the current environment.
I will skip slides 21 through 22 and turn the call over to Owen for closing remarks.
Thanks Tony.
The third quarter came in a bit better than we had expected a quarter ago.
The fourth quarter will be softer for the reasons that both Scotty and Tony have mentioned.
It is just far too early to say much about 2016 other than to say we don't expect any improvement in industry conditions going into 2016.
However the uncertainty for 2016 may be clearer once our customers go through their budgeting process.
Once that occurs we should be able to provide greater granularity on the outlook of 2016.
In general though we expect robotics to drop off in 2016 versus their performance in 2015.
This is the result of legacy work performed in 2015 to support subsea construction tailing off combined with a slow year of trenching.
We plan to react to the drop-off in robotics activity by reducing our chartered vessel fleet by not renewing charters for vessels that have expirations in 2016.
Furthermore we are in discussions with ship owners for the remainder of the fleet to lower the charter rates.
Well intervention will continue to be hampered by our customers' reluctance to spend in the face of continuing low oil prices.
It is difficult to say how much this will impact until we get through the budgeting process.
We do know that the work is out there that needs to be done to keep wells flowing or enhance remaining production.
The P&amp;A markets will be regulatory driven more so in the Gulf of Mexico than the North Sea.
However our customers continue to seek ways to put off expenditures.
In any event well intervention should be one of the first activities to see recovery and this could be independent of commodity pricing as sooner or later the work just has to be done.
Management's job through this down cycle is to preserve the balance sheet through ongoing efforts to reduce spending but also seek opportunities to increase cash generation from the current asset base.
We believe that our balance sheet has sufficient capacity for us to complete our capital program meet our debt obligations and emerge in a free cash flow positive position.
While we do anticipate growth in EBITDA beyond 2016 from new assets entering service that are already under contract we also see further opportunity to reduce our costs.
I would like to address our contracts in Brazil due to concerns regarding the general economic conditions that exist with Petrobras in Brazil.
I would like to comment on Brazil in a more detailed fashion but I’m limited on what I'm able to say about the Petrobras contract situation.
First construction of the two vessels we will be chartering from CM Offshore is going well.
The vessel construction is proceeding on time and on budget.
The other side of the question is our Petrobras contracts.
As we mentioned on our last earnings call as part of its cost-cutting measures Petrobras reached out to many of the service companies it does business with including us.
We are currently in good-faith discussions with Petrobras regarding these contracts with the objective of reaching a solution that assists Petrobras and also makes sense to us although as we all know the environment in Brazil is dynamic.
I have been on record in the past as saying that so far we don't see any indications from Petrobras that our contracts are in jeopardy and nothing has transpired to date that alters that impression.
However we cannot be more definitive about our discussions of the outcome at this time.
Let me also address the Q7000.
We previously deferred delivery of the vessel from mid-2016 to mid-2017.
We're also in discussions with the shipyard to provide Helix the optionality to further defer delivery until as far as the end of 2018.
We would have the option of taking delivery of the vessel at any time before then depending on its state of completion.
We are negotiating this as a cautionary measure to defer capital spending and maintain liquidity through this downturn.
We remain committed to the completion of the Q7 and believe the market interest for this vessel will develop over time.
All in all we plan to take a cautious approach as we manage through this challenging period of our market.
We also feel that we are well positioned and on the leading edge for any recovery of the offshore market.
We also feel that the need for our services will intensify over time even in the absence of commodity price improvement.
Finally we do believe that we can be profitable and grow even in the current market as we adjust our contract our costs and our contracting philosophy.
I'm not saying things can't get worse but I feel that we are in a relatively good position for the market going forward and for the inevitable recovery in activity.
Erik? Operator at this time we are available to take any questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Marshall Adkins.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning guys.
Owen good job in a tough environment this quarter.
Obviously it sounds like things will keep getting tough for some I’m curious.
How much more room do you have to move on the cost side of things? Can you continue taking more costs out of the system? I believe we can Marshall.
When we downsized the Company from 2008 on we were pretty aggressive on also downsizing the SG&amp;A.
Over the last year we’ve been even more aggressive and have cut out an awful lot.
There is a fair amount of SG&amp;A reductions that were put into effect this year that we won't see the full effect on until next year so that's one area.
The other area of costs that we can work on is that over the past years as labor became very short and competition for labor became intense there were a lot of compensation packages and structures put in place that due to employment contracts just take time to work their way out but I do believe that there is going to be a resetting of the compensation structure.
Maybe not the actual day rates of the employees but the structure and bonus mechanisms and retentions and everything will be reset.
And I think there is further work to do there.
Then finally I think we’ve been fortunate over the past robust years of being able to man our vessels offshore with a lot of positions that may not absolutely be necessary and as we look at crosstraining through our alliance with Schlumberger and just reevaluating the positions offshore on our vessels I think there is a certain amount of re-manning that is going to take place there.
So there is a number of places we have yet to work on.
Perfect.
And second one for me obviously looking out to 2016 and 2017 you made it pretty clear things don't look great and we don't have a lot of visibility yet.
But specifically with the 4000 and 5000 it seems like you are rallying the troops around those two assets.
Is it reasonable to think those things keep better than a 50% utilization looking out there or is it just still too early to tell? I don't want to get too far into 2016 but I think that we are very confident on the utilization on those two assets and then the remainder of the uncertainty of the market really falls to the 534 in the Gulf of Mexico.
In the North Sea it is very - it’s way too early in the North Sea to be making any comments about how many vessels we will be able to keep busy at what utilization rate.
Right.
That's helpful guys.
Thank you all.
Thank you for your question.
Our next question comes from the line of Martin Malloy.
Please proceed.
Congratulations on the strong third quarter.
I didn't hear much about the OneSubsea alliance.
Could you maybe update us on the activity levels there and what you all are working on? The OneSubsea alliance has always been a longer-term play.
We are building the 15K system.
That's due for delivery in 2017.
That's on time and on schedule.
And what we have now is a more increased marketing and sales structure by sharing off on Schlumberger's team and our teams with a joint approach.
Okay.
And I’m not sure what all you can tell us on the Siem I and II contracts and the conversations with Petrobras but are they still on schedule for mid-next year and late next year for coming online? And I guess in terms of the structure of the contracts between Helix and Siem it is my understanding you all have a seven-year charter with Siem and the contracts with Brazil are for four years? Four years with options on the Petrobras contracts.
Four years with three one-year options so the charter had to mirror that obligation.
And the builds are on the program.
They're on schedule.
We launched the hull of the first vessel just a week or so ago so we are predicting to be on time for the first and second vessel at this time.
Okay.
The Siem I and II the contracts that you have with Siem for the vessels if something happens with the contracts with Petrobras you would still be obligated for the vessels? By the charter agreement we would still be obligated.
We have a really great relationship with Siem so I think it's a matter of - if in the remote eventuality something happened I would be hopeful that we could work out something with them.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you for your question.
Our next question comes from the line of Gregory Lewis.
Please proceed.
Yes thank and good morning gentlemen.
Good morning Greg.
Owen I know you don't want to get too involved in commenting about the North Sea just in that you said there's not much visibility.
But I guess I just a little curious on the decision to extend the Skandi Constructor.
I know you've mentioned in the past that this vessel can do certain work that is specific to that vessel but just as we think about the decision to extend it another year was that just based on a feel of the market customer conversations? And then just following up on that you mentioned a lower dayrate.
Is there any sort of percentage range you could give on maybe how much savings that you're getting on that chartered-in vessel over the next what 15 months? Yes I'll take it.
I think our decision was based on the fact that there is opportunities out there.
I am not sure they're going to be realized or not but there are opportunities out there and we wanted to have access to the vessel so that we could jump on those opportunities if they were to present itself to us.
We are not at liberty to discuss the change in charter rates.
All we can say is it's a very favorable arrangement.
Okay so it's kind of like what we are seeing in other markets it is just a blend and extend where maybe the NPV could be neutral-ish? Okay.
And then really just you mentioned the IRS 1 and 2.
It sounded like those are on contracts through Q4.
In thinking about those two pieces of equipment how far in advance will - what type of visibility will the Company have in terms of thinking about how the early part of next year looks? Is there - obviously they are all in the - how easy is it to get those on and off hire? Both are on contracts until the end of this year.
Then we have to bring them back on shore for repair and maintenance.
We’ve got a scheduled period that’s required in Q1 for both of those systems anyway.
But we have tenders out there.
We are looking at work for both systems next year.
I don't think we will see the same amount of utilization as we have seen in 2015.
But both are available and both are under tender [indiscernible].
Okay sure and just thinking about how long would we expect those to stay in the yard? How long is that maintenance? The maintenance period on an IRS will be four to six weeks depending what we find when it comes in.
Okay.
Four to six weeks okay perfect.
On IRS 2 we’ve got to do a full certification period so that would be the longest one.
And is that two months? That would be six weeks planned.
Okay.
Okay perfect all right thank you very much gentlemen.
Thank you for your question.
Our next question comes from the line of George O'Leary please proceed.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
On the well intervention business in particular if you look out into your crystal ball in 2016 I know you don't want to pontificate on it too much but just given the Q5000 is contracted you feel good about the Q4000 utilization if nothing else year-on-year in the Gulf of Mexico would you expect utilization to be up? And then given what you are doing in terms of stacking the H534 and on the cost side just for the well intervention business in general based on what you know today does it feel like operating margins can be higher in 2016 versus 2015 even let's just say assuming a flat number of days worked or a flat utilization level year on year? You can take it or I will.
Margins I definitely would not expect to expand in this current market.
We are still seeing pricing pressure throughout the market.
From a utilization standpoint I think our expectations are that utilization will be down somewhat but BP's contract starting in April pretty much takes care of the Q5 and the Q4 we expect strong utilization on.
And then any remaining work which is what’s uncertain right now until we see the producers' budgeting process that would fall to the 534 in the Gulf of Mexico and that's where we have some uncertainty.
Right now the way we are planning is to plan for a warm stack until we have better visibility and then we’ll make the announcement going into next year what will happen with the 534.
We may elect to cold stack and reduce costs further on the 534 as we go into next year depending on the outlook.
Or if there’s additional work we may bring her out and work her for part of the year.
She won't have a strong year but the idea is to offset any idle costs incurred.
In the North Sea the North Sea is the hardest hit of all the regions from all this.
The P&amp;A work over there is less regulatory driven than it is in the Gulf of Mexico which is a big factor for what sustains the Gulf.
In the North Sea though keeping the wells going at the end of their life and avoiding cessation of production is going to become a looming issue for the producers.
Plus the F&amp;D costs of our work over methodologies on wells makes any incremental production commercial even at these current rates.
We do know that the work is out there to be done.
It really boils down to what the corporate mandate will be from the producers as to how much OpEx grew because this kind of work falls under their OpEx not their capital budget so we just have to wait and see how much of their OpEx budgets are allocated for doing this work and that will drive our ultimate utilization decisions on the North Sea fleet.
Okay you answered my second question with that answer so thanks for the time guys.
Okay.
Thank you for your question.
Our next question comes from the line of Joe Gibney please proceed.
Thanks good morning guys.
Just a couple of questions on robotics.
Specifically on fleet count securities if you could update us on out of the long-term charters which other than the Canyon which is going to stack now are there other assets that are up for charter renewal in 2016 just trying to understand how many of your long-term charter vessels are in that queue for this upcoming year and then maybe how we should think a little bit about kind of robotics fleet count from an ROV perspective I mean tick to down one this quarter how many of those ROVs into next year of your fleet maybe sort of coming up for potential retirement just trying to get a sense of fleet size as we think about robotics would be helpful.
Okay regarding the vessels the Olympic Canyon should get to the U.K.
in the next week and then the plan will be to cold stack it.
We can give that vessel back May 2016.
The REM Installer will be the next one that drops off the fleet and that will go in July 2016.
We will also take delivery sometime between February and April of the Grand Canyon.
That's our current plan at the moment.
The Grand Canyon III sorry.
So we will be going down from five vessels to four vessels into 2016 and then as we go further out the other vessels stagger off each year if we have to reduce further.
The ROVs we don't see any ROVs coming off charter at the moment.
They are on long-term vessels with our clients.
We’ve got some ROVs that we have in the shop that are ready to go but I don't see them getting spot work like we would have done in the past.
It's not going to be a spot market for ROVs next year.
And the trenching works we’ve had a very successful 2015 for trenching but we see 2016 as a drop down in trenching.
Okay that's helpful.
Just on that line item for trenching roughly $300 million EBITDA for - or excuse me revenue forecast for robotics this year.
Just remind us what ballpark percentage trenching is of that number? Trenching is approximately 30% of our robotics numbers.
Okay.
All right thank you guys.
Joe if I could just add something because you highlighted one of the major headwinds that we are facing next year is that we always charter our robotics vessels and we have tried to do it on a staggered basis so that we have the ability over time to either increase or decrease the vessel fleet.
What is happening here is that the market is declining at a greater pace than what our ability is to resize our fleet.
Especially during the first part of the next year we’re going to be carrying the Olympic Canyon...
REM Installer.
…the REM Installer and then taking the new Grand Canyon vessel on then we will be carrying all three of those vessels in the first half of the year whereas in the second half of the year we will have the fleet downsized to four.
So it's the first half of the year headwinds that are causing us some angst right now and we are in - as we said in our opening comments we are in discussions with the ship owners to try and mitigate some of that cost but we're just going to have to be a little patient and see what the outcome is going to be.
Okay great.
Thanks.
Thank you for your question.
Our next question comes from the line of Chase Mulvehill.
Please proceed.
Hey good morning fellas.
Good morning.
So I guess first question could you help us with the magnitude of the reduction in the Skandi charter rate? Just maybe a percentage basis what the charter rate is down.
No we're really restricted from talking about the charter rate on the Skandi Constructor for a number of reasons but we just can't talk about the rate.
Okay understood.
All right.
And then so are you in discussions with Siem about potentially reducing the chartering rates there or are the chartering rates pretty sticky right now? Right now we are seeing no - we have no basis for really going to talk to Siem right now.
As I said we don't have any indications of having that need to have those discussions.
Okay.
What we do see is the cost for the people that we will be putting on the vessel will come down compared to the original plan.
Okay.
All right.
And so and you talked about potentially cold stacking the H534 which would take I think it is like about $40 000 per day is what the warm stacking costs are so then it effectively goes to zero.
What about the Seawell? Could you cold stack that and how should we be thinking about the Seawell as we get into 2016? I think we’ve mentioned the Skandi Constructor the reason we extended that is to have access to the vessel for work that is not within the capabilities of the other two vessels.
The Enhancer we're pretty confident of strong utilization.
The Seawell is the one that we're going to have to be again a little patient and see.
We know the work is out there to keep the Seawell busy.
It is a matter of whether or not the producers budget for it or not.
Right.
And we should look at the Seawell as being mostly competitive with the Well Enhancer right? Yes they are almost interchangeable except for the fact that the Well Enhancer has the capability of deploying coiled tubing whereas the Seawell does not.
Okay.
All right.
And what about the opportunities for any of your North Sea vessels for work outside of the North Sea? Again we are looking at options.
There is nothing firm there at the moment but we are in discussions.
Okay all right.
And any thoughts on the leading edge dayrates in the Gulf of Mexico and then what about in the North Sea for well intervention? I think we are at market rates and we are not really at liberty to discuss our rates at the moment.
I think it's a very dynamic situation.
I think you’ve seen the recent announcement of the rig rates.
The rig rates seem to still be trailing down.
I think there is alternatives to just following rig rates.
Our methodology in the work that we do is quite a bit different than rigs.
So it's a matter of doing a proper sales and marketing job in our discussions with the producers to convince them of the time efficiencies cost efficiencies especially on short duration spot work where our vessels are clearly an advantage to a rig.
Okay.
And so the rates that you saw - you realized in 3Q are they mostly reflective of leading-edge rates or do we still have some backlog that you worked off in 3Q at higher dayrates? Our rates right now are honestly truly a mixed bag of rates.
The rates are not consistent primarily because the contracting terms are also very dynamic and vary from one producer to another.
It depends on what the drivers are what the producers are looking at and we are trying to respond on more of an individual basis.
Yes I think the way to look at it Chase is that where we have backlog those rates are determined.
Where we don't we're at market rates.
So incremental spot market work is very competitively bid rate wise but we do have a fair basis of work for the Q5 and Q4 where the rates are determined by existing contracts I’ll say.
I also would say that in the North Sea for the Well Enhancer and the Seawell rates have not come down on a spot market basis as steeply as they have in the Gulf of Mexico.
And that’s because of the unique capabilities of both the Seawell and Well Enhancer which offers a really competitive operating advantage to our customer vis-à-vis our competition.
Okay.
So it would be unfair to take current leading-edge dayrates and apply it across the board.
It's just not the case for us.
Right.
So what I'm hearing is that the dayrates that you earned in 3Q that might be – that seems like a fairly good run rate as we go forward into 2016 right? You are not expecting the dayrates that you earned to step down significantly into 2016 unless the market continues to bleed right? But I'm just saying from a leading-edge basis.
Yes.
It’s hard to say Chase.
The Q5 worked on a lot of opportunistic spot market work in Q3 so its margins weren't great but don't forget when the Q5 goes to work we have a rate regime there that’s already set and the Q4 has a couple of anchor clients where the rates are set for next year too.
And as Owen has mentioned the North Sea is more uncertain but the rate compression we’ve seen there again hasn't been as steep as what you see because you're not competing against floaters per se.
Right.
Okay.
All right last question because I know I’ve asked a lot.
So on your covenant calculations what debt are you able to exclude? And then what is the associated EBITDA right? So I guess you excluded debt I think for the Q5000 and then do you exclude the debt – the EBITDA from the Q5000 as well? Chase it would take almost a five-day seminar to go through the complications of the calculation.
However just to generalize the Q5 subsidiary debt does not count against our leverage ratio as you suggested because it's at a sub level and it’s nonrecourse to the parent.
And as long as we quote I'll use this term repatriate funds from our foreign subsidiaries we get to count that EBITDA.
So it is not – the EBITDA that counts for the Credit Suisse [ph] doesn't match up exactly with our financial reporting EBITDA but we have ways.
Okay.
That's all I have.
I will turn it back over.
Thanks.
Thank you for your question.
Our next question comes from the line of Bill Dezellem.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
I want to circle back to the Q5000 and share with us if you would please the work prospects that you are seeing between now and when that vessel more permanently goes to work next spring.
Okay the vessel should be sailing today and she will go on contract for a scope of work with a client in the Gulf of Mexico and then she goes straight onto a longer scope with a legacy client.
And then we are bidding work in Q1 and expect around mid-March to start the testing program for BP and then we're off on the BP contract for the five years.
So basically you just have January February and the first half of March which are available to put new work in place.
Correct they are available and we are tendering at market rates in that space.
Great thank you.
Thank you for your question.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Trey Stolz.
Please proceed.
All right.
I think a lot of this was covered ad nauseam.
My only question was just to verify on the Q5000 that some of that work moving from the H534 the backlog to the Q5 that wasn't necessarily done with a rate concession so we should assume it is cash flow positive for the time being whereas looking into early 2016 before the BP contract starts it might be a little different for the Q5 there.
Yes.
So Trey on the Q5 the work it will immediately go to let's say it was contracted at market rates.
Correct.
And the backlog that was transferred off the H534 is really at the legacy rates.
Correct.
Right? Correct yes.
So… Versus a shakedown period a lower rate shakedown period which you might see with a new build in this situation.
We're going to go there and execute for our client just like it has been working for years and years that's our plan regardless of the rates and regardless of the fact that it's a first job.
We can go into how experienced the crew is that is going on the Q5.
It is a fairly experienced crew that we have been training personnel and shifting among vessels and some of the H534 crew is going on the Q5.
So yes you could call it a shakedown but we plan on hitting the pavement right away and working efficiently for this client.
All right and then the intervention risers just touching those real quick is it okay or safe to think that there is almost a substitution effect going on.
While your client base has drilling rigs potentially under contract they are stuck with the drilling rigs.
You have the intervention riser system to address that market in the meantime and that some of that demand may be shifting back to well intervention fleet more specific vessels that say in 2016 or as those drilling rigs continue to come off contract? This is a hard question really.
It's unknown at this time.
They are locked up until the end of the year.
It is a difficult one to answer.
I don't know if you want to add to that.
I don't know the answer.
I don't see an overwhelming demand from producers to rent systems to put on rigs.
Why I don't know.
It could be that we are in a transition here as you mentioned that our rigs are rolling off contract.
From what I’ve seen on the market rates on rigs I think rigs are very competitive when there is a substantial long-term contract but most of the work that we do is spot market and short duration in nature and that's hard to rig up a rig for.
So I'm not seeing any long-term rigs being allocated to this kind of work where they are seeking – actively seeking an intervention riser to go on board.
All right and then the H534 you briefly mentioned the potential to cold stack that vessel.
Is there a lot of work out there that the Q5 can handle or can address that maybe the H534 wouldn't be able to or what may also play into that decision looking into 2016? Is it pure demand function at this point? I think it is pure demand.
I think the – certainly the Q5 is a far more capable vessel than the 534 but for the work that we see out there the 534 is sufficient.
So I think it's purely a demand question.
All right that does it for me.
Thanks.
Thank you for your question.
Our next question comes from the line of Ole Slorer.
Please proceed.
Yes thanks.
So Owen Schlumberger were grilled quite a bit on the robustness of the joint venture that they have with you at their latest analyst presentation up in New York and they’ve asked about the idleness of deepwater rigs and seems to be a lot of the call is centered around that.
But they were quite dismissive of the competitiveness of large drilling rigs in the context of well intervention.
So could you give us some sense of the cost differences even if rig rates were to come down – they are down so even with rig rates being maybe down to cash operating costs how competitive is your cost structure? Ole I don't know that the competitive nature of our vessels reside solely in the cost structure.
We may have a marginal advantage there.
The big difference though is in the efficiency in doing the work and there – and I am taking numbers that I have seen producers cite to us in the past.
These are not my numbers but it is anywhere from 20% to 40% more efficient than a rig depending on the scope of work that it's being applied to and that's on a time basis.
Now that varies a little bit regionally.
As Tony alluded to in the North Sea our rigs compete more against moored rigs and as such we enjoy a far greater time efficiency over a moored rig than we would a floater.
But even in the Gulf of Mexico especially on short-duration work we have a significant advantage on a time basis than a rig.
You have to remember in the North Sea a lot of the wells that are there need diver intervention so even if a rig comes in the client would still have to bring a dive boat a DSV and satellite vessel.
So they would have two vessels to undertake the scope.
I think there is another thing that play also and it is not all the producers but at least some of the majors are taking a longer-term view of how to maintain the life of their deepwater subsea wells.
And it would be counterproductive to base a long-term strategic decision on how you're going to do well intervention in the deepwater on what is hopefully a short term dip in rig rates because eventually the rig rates are going to return and then they're back to the same place.
I wasn't thinking about cost structure of the vessels so thanks a lot for clarifying that.
As you highlighted there is a regulatory framework around abandonment of wells in the Gulf of Mexico.
In the North Sea it looks as if a lot of the oil companies including Statoil have flat out deferred any kind of maintenance at all.
I think we saw that in the production numbers in September and August with very little downtime for platforms.
So do you have a view of the volume over the magnitude of the work which is just now being pushed ahead like a snowball and eventually it will have to be done? We do have specific well counts that we’ve looked at for the North Sea.
Without getting into the specificity of it there is a substantial I mean very substantial amount of decommissioning work to be done in the North Sea.
The problem with the North Sea is that it is not as regulatory driven as the Gulf of Mexico.
In fact with the current tax – with its current structure over there basically the government is on the hook for paying for 60% of it so there is absolutely no incentive on the parts of government to force the abandonment situation in the North Sea and of course there is no incentive for the producers to accelerate spending the money on it.
What we are seeing though is sort of a Catch-22 for the producers though that the one mark that definitely triggers abandonment is cessation of production and with the age of the North Sea a lot of the fields are nearing their cessation of production.
So unless you go out there and enhance the wells and keep the production going you are going to see an acceleration of the regulatory-driven abandonment work.
How how much and when that might happen that is a total uncertainty.
Interesting.
In this down cycle your balance sheet is thank God in a very very different position to what it was in a prior down cycle so you have a different degree of flexibility this time around.
While you do have assets coming in and certainly those lack of spare capacity for the up cycle have you got any higher-level thoughts about any kind of strategic move that you could make at this down cycle given your greater financial flexibility? I think our focus is totally on preserving the balance sheet at this point to make it more certain that we get through with strength.
But it's too early in the down cycle to be looking at the potential opportunities were we coming out of it but you are right.
If we preserve the balance sheet right now then as we come out of it we should be better positioned than many.
Okay thanks for that Owen.
Thank you for your question.
Mr.
Staffeldt there are no further questions at this time.
I will turn the call back to you.
Thanks for joining us today.
We very much appreciate your interest and participation and look forward to having you on our fourth quarter 2015 call in February.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference call.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Afterwards we'll conduct a question-and-answer session.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded Tuesday February 23 of 2016.
I would now turn the conference over to Erik Staffeldt the Vice President of Finance and Accounting.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone; and thanks for joining us today for our conference call for our Q4 2015 earnings release.
Participating on this call for Helix today is Owen Kratz our CEO; Tony Tripodo our CFO; Alisa Johnson our General Counsel; and Scotty Sparks our COO.
Hopefully you've had an opportunity to review our press release and the related slide presentation released last night.
If you do not have a copy of these materials both can be accessed through the Investor Relations page on our website at www.helixesg.com.
The press release can be accessed under the Press Releases tab and the slide presentation can be accessed by clicking on today's webcast icon.
Before we begin our prepared remarks Alisa Johnson will make a statement regarding forward-looking information.
Alisa? General Counsel &amp; Corporate Secretary</strong> During this conference call we anticipate making certain projections and forward-looking statements based on our current expectations.
All statements in this conference call or in the associated presentation other than statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements and are made under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Our actual future results may differ materially from our projections in forward-looking statements due to a number and variety of factors including those set forth in our slide two and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2014.
Also during this call certain non-GAAP financial disclosures may be made.
In accordance with SEC rules the final slides of our presentation materials provide a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP measures to comparable GAAP financial measures.
The reconciliation along with this presentation the earnings press release our Annual Report and a replay of this broadcast are available on our website.
Owen? Good morning everybody.
We're going to start out this morning on slide five which is a high level summary of Q4 results.
From a pure operating results perspective Q4 exceeded our prior outlook with EBITDA coming in at $34 million compared to the $51 million in Q3.
We typically see a seasonal drop-off in Q4 and that certainly happened but the better than expected results is primarily owed to better utilization of both the Q4000 and the Q5000 in the Gulf of Mexico.
We're pleased to have put the Q5000 to work after commissioning in October and we're pleased to report that she performed very well.
For all of 2015 we finished with $173 million of EBITDA.
Turning to slide six the persistent weak industry conditions and the recent additional step-down in oil prices compelled us to take a close look at the carrying value of our assets.
This analysis led us to the conclusion that we needed to impair the book value of our Production Facilities business unit the H534 as well as writing off some of our goodwill and some other items.
I won't go through each of these non-cash accounting adjustments in detail as they are outlined in the slide.
On to slide seven from a balance sheet perspective our cash levels actually increased from the end of Q3 to year-end rising to $494 million from $469 million a quarter ago.
The increase in cash occurred even after paying down $16 million of scheduled principal payments during Q4.
Similarly our net debt declined as well to $267 million at year-end.
Our revolving credit facility remained undrawn.
In February we amended the credit facility to provide us with more cushion with respect to covenant compliance.
Erik will go through some of the key amendments of the provision later on.
In addition subsequent to year-end we consummated two transactions that added to liquidity.
We did a sale leaseback of our Aberdeen facility for approximately $11 million in cash.
We also sold our 50% interest in Marco Polo production facility for $25 million.
We'll continue to look for ways to add liquidity going forward.
I'll now turn the call over to Scotty for an in-depth discussion of our operating results.
Thanks Owen.
Moving on to slide nine in Q4 our results decreased compared to Q3 as we entered the winter months resulting in less utilization due to seasonal factors and the weaker oil industry conditions.
Our revenue in the fourth quarter declined $24 million from the third quarter to $158 million.
Our gross profit margin declined from 18% in Q3 to 13% in Q4 resulting in $20 million gross profit.
To mitigate the weaker industry conditions we warm stacked both the Skandi Constructor and the Seawell partway through the quarter (5:20) in Q4 and the 534 for the entire quarter in the Gulf of Mexico to reduce costs.
In Robotics we reduced the fleet by one vessel negotiating an early termination for the vessel owner.
A significant number of our non-essential offshore personnel from the stacked and terminated vessels were released by the company.
Moving on to slide 10 for our Well Intervention business in the Gulf of Mexico Q4000 had 98% utilization working on two major projects.
Q5000 entered service late-October and successfully undertook its first project resulting in 78% utilization.
The Helix 534 was idle for the period and warm stacked to reduce costs.
We are currently planning to further reduce the cost by placing the vessel into cold stack for 2016 and possibly beyond.
IRS no.
1 and IRS no.
2 our rental intervention riser systems remained on hire for the entire quarter.
In the North Sea the Well Enhancer achieved 67% utilization working on seven projects in the quarter including 21 days in December.
The Skandi Constructor was utilized on four projects until the 10th of November and the vessel was then warm stacked to reduce costs in Blyth in the UK.
Moving on to slide 11 for the Robotics review.
Robotics achieved 58% vessel utilization in Q4 and 48% utilization for ROVs and trenching systems.
The Grand Canyon of the T1200 spread was fully utilized working on a trenching project in Brazil.
The Grand Canyon II completed work in the North Sea and then commenced transit to the Gulf of Mexico and went straight to work on numerous smaller projects.
The Deep Cygnus completed trenching projects in the North Sea and then commenced transit to Equatorial Guinea to undertake a walk-to-work project.
The REM Installer continued on numerous ROV support projects in the Gulf of Mexico and the Olympic Canyon concluded transit back from India and was idle in October and November before reaching an early-negotiated settlement to return the vessel to the owner.
And all business units remain intensely focused on the areas we can control and continue to lower costs and optimize efficiency.
Over to slide 12 I'll leave this slide detailing vessel utilization for your reference.
Turning the call back over to Erik for a more in-depth balance sheet discussion.
Moving over to slide 14 for a review of our key balance sheet metrics.
Our funded debt at December 31 decreased to $776 million reflecting our scheduled quarterly principal payment of $7.5 million on our term loan and $8.9 million on our Q5000 loan.
In February we concluded an amendment to our senior credit facility.
The amendment increased our leverage ratio capacity during 2016 of the previous 4.5:1 to 5.5:1 at March 31 and gradually declining the rest of 2016 over the year to 5.0:1 at 12/31/16.
There is additional headroom provided through the middle of 2017.
As a point of reference at year-end 2015 our actual leverage ratio stood at 3.1:1.
Just to confirm the Q5000 Nordea loan does not factor into our senior credit facility leverage ratio.
Other key aspects of the amendment included the following: a reduction in the overall size of the facility from $600 million to $400 million.
We believe this amendment makes sense as we're currently un-borrowed on the facility and the reduction saves us commitment fees and likely EBITDA levels for 2016 and perhaps beyond will not allow full access of the revolver anyway.
Secondly the introduction of the minimum cash reserve is dependent on actual leverage ratio.
We have provided a lot more detail on this amendment with the 8-K filing a few days ago.
Moving on to slide 15 provides update on our gross and net debt levels at year-end and December 31.
Our net debt position decreased to $267 million in the fourth quarter from $307 million in the third quarter.
Our liquidity at December 31 was approximately $744 million comprised of cash balance of $494 million and revolver availability of $250 million.
I will now turn over the call to Tony for a discussion on our 2016 outlook.
Tony? Thank you Erik; and good morning to everybody.
Moving over to slide 17 we entered 2015 in the midst of a declining industry environment.
One year later the environment continues to weaken in tandem with even lower oil prices.
Our customers have responded by slashing their 2016 budgets even deeper than the reduced spending levels in 2015 thus we see no evidence of a recovery in 2016; and in fact 2016 is shaping up to be worse than 2015.
Given the fact that many of our customers are still working through their budgets and formulating which projects get sanctioned and which do not we feel it is a bit premature to provide quantitative guidance from 2016 at this point other than to say we expect 2016 financial results for Helix to be lower than 2015.
We hope to be in a position in April to provide more quantitative guidance.
That being said we can say this much on how we see the year unfolding in the near-term.
It will be difficult to break even from an EBITDA basis in quarter one; combination of the weak industry conditions and typical seasonal factors.
We expect quarter two to show a significant improvement as to Q5000 is scheduled to go to work for BP on April 1 and both the Well Enhancer and Seawell are scheduled to be working as well.
The improvements of quarter two should continue on to quarter three before we see again the typical seasonal drop-off in Q4.
Key assumption is the expectation that Siem Helix I enter service for Petrobras in late quarter three.
And as a further note our total backlog at year-end amounts to $1.8 billion.
Moving over to slide 18 for CapEx we expect to spend $245 million in 2016 with a substantial majority of that number associated with the completion of the topsides for the two Siem Helix vessels which are under contract to Petrobras and further progress spending in Q7000.
Presently our plans are not to take delivery of the Q7000 until the end of 2018.
A bit more color on our balance sheet metrics our gross debt is set to decline $71 million in 2016 due to scheduled principal payments on our debt instruments.
Our net debt levels are forecast to increase from the $267 million at year-end 2015 to somewhere between $340 million and $390 million.
This range is based on a number of assumptions which could vary significantly including the amount of operating cash flow we ultimately generate changes in working capital tax refunds et cetera.
The $36 million of asset sales that have already occurred in Q1 is also factored into this range.
On to slide 20 more specifically by business unit on the Well Intervention side the Q4000 should have relatively good utilization in 2016 as well as the Q5000 which is committed to BP as of April 1.
The H534 is presently warm stacked but we're making plans to cold stack this vessel as a cost saving measure.
The decision to cold stack the H534 led to the impairment charge at year-end for this vessel.
On the UK side 2016 will continue to be tough for Well Intervention.
While the Well Enhancer should stay relatively busy there's a lot less visibility for both the Seawell and the Skandi Constructor although the Seawell does have confirmed works starting in May.
The Robotics business will weaken sharply in 2016.
The lack of subsea infrastructure projects sanctioned in 2015 will have a dramatic impact on Robotics activities in the coming year.
We have reduced our Robotics vessel fleet to four vessels as we negotiated an early termination and we lift a Canyon charter in December.
We have also negotiated more favorable charter rates for the Grand Canyon fleet of three vessels under an amendment extended renegotiation.
I'll skip slides 22 to 23 leave them for your reference and now turn the call over to Owen Kratz for closing remarks.
Thanks Tony.
I don't think I need to tell everybody that these are tough times and we anticipate 2016 will be tougher than 2015.
Helix has a relatively healthy balance sheet though.
Let me address three areas of concern that I've heard expressed by investors: our capital commitments our debt obligations and our customer contracts.
First Helix has capital commitments to meet.
With the SH1 is being completed this year with our contract with Petrobras and we expect it to commence work in Q3 of this year the SH2 will be completed around year-end and it's expected to work for Petrobras 2017.
So those projects are well underway.
For those two vessels our capital commitment is just in the topsides equipment only.
The Q7000 has a plan completion date at the end of 2017 with an option for delivery to occur with final payment at the end of 2018.
All three of these projects are on budget.
Second Helix has debt obligations.
This past quarter we actually generated positive cash flow with net debt being reduced by $40 million from $307 million at September 30 to $267 million at year-end.
We'll not generate positive cash flow in 2016 due to lower levels of operating cash flow and our capital commitments.
We're planning to use cash on hand in 2016 and expect that our net debt will increase to somewhere between $350 million and $390 million as Tony mentioned.
We will continue to pay down our gross debt at a rate of $70 million per year in 2016 and 2017.
It's our current plan to cash settle any potential put of our $200 million convertible notes in 2018 which is the first put call option date.
All of this is factored into our cash flow analysis.
Third we expect that the customers will honor their contracts.
The Q5000 begins a multi-year contract for BP beginning the second quarter of this year.
The Siem Helix I has a signed contract to begin work for Petrobras which is expected by the end of Q3 this year.
Work orders have been issued from Petrobras and our teams are planning and engineering the work to be done during the year.
The second vessel the Siem Helix II will be completed and is expected to begin its work for Petrobras in 2017.
But as everyone knows and we've announced previously Petrobras did approach us like many in the industry to restructure our contract as part of their cost-cutting initiatives.
While I'm still not in a position to discuss these ongoing talks it's important to note that we do have two firm contracts today and we expect our negotiations with Petrobras to conclude shortly.
With these two assets despite the current market weakness we would expect EBITDA growth to occur in 2017 from 2016 even without a market recovery in that timeframe.
We feel that we have sufficient liquidity and operational results to meet our obligations in the current weak market conditions.
We still have further cost-cutting initiatives that we'll be putting in place.
We also are modeling market trends in several ways and are analyzing all appropriate options.
But as we see things now what I've said here is the plan forward.
Although the market's not getting any better right now we would expect P&amp;A at some point to increase as a result of regulatory requirements or operators having a desire to get it done in this cost effective environment.
On the other hand if there's a semblance of a recovery we would expect production enhancement through Well Intervention with its low development costs to be one of the first service sectors to see a sign of recovery.
We feel that we have sufficient strength to see us through this period of capital obligations while meeting and reducing our debt obligations.
By the time the Q7000 is delivered we expect to be left in a free cash flow positive operating position with relatively low debt levels and positioned well with assets ready to capture the opportunities.
It's going to be a tough period for a while and may actually get worse before it gets better.
We're monitoring the market and constantly assessing our options to mitigate.
I'm here to tell you we'll meet our obligations and focus on preserving liquidity.
We'll not rely on a market recovery to do this.
If the market persists at these weak levels we'll still get through our obligations and emerge with free cash flow from operations given what we know now.
Back to you Erik.
Thanks Owen.
Operator at this time we will open up for questions.
Thank you.
And our first question comes from the line of Chase Mulvehill.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> I guess I'll just start with the first one.
Just to confirm 1Q you said break even EBITDA right? Yeah.
Chase I said that Q1 it will be difficult for us to get to break even on an EBITDA basis.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
I want to make sure that it was not gross profit or EBIT right? Right.
Yeah referring specifically to EBITDA.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Can you hold our hand a little bit and take us from 1Q to 2Q and kind of the puts and takes? I know you got the Q5000 starting up with BP you have the IRS systems having some better utilization North Sea coming back a little bit.
So maybe just kind of help us step from 1Q to 2Q and try to understand what the increase would look like.
Yeah.
I think the big step-up is going to be the Q5000 going to work.
Also the North Sea seasonal start in Q2 and the Well Enhancer should stay busy in the spring/summer months.
We do have some confirmed work for the Seawell and there's other opportunities out there for the Seawell as well as the Skandi.
Most of it's unconfirmed at this time but there are some opportunities for those vessels to work the high months so to speak.
We also expect the Robotics business even though it's going to be a lousy year for them to pick up in Qs two and three; again these are seasonal factors.
So I mean the way we look at it Q2 will be a relatively good step-up in terms of earnings.
Q3 should be even better and then it'll drop off again in Q4.
Obviously we're being very subjective here because we think there are too many variables at this point to get too objective about specific numbers.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
All right.
And then can we talk about 2016 and the potential for tax refunds? I'm seeing I guess it's about a $30 million cash interest expense if that's right can you confirm that? And then maybe some color around working capital.
Yeah.
We expect to receive some tax refunds yes.
We won't quantify them because until we prepare our returns and get them done we won't know what the actual number is.
Yes we are going to pay about $30 million in interest expense.
That's pretty much set in stone.
So yes; yes to your questions.
Inc.</span></strong> And any cash from working capital or should we just assume that's...
I think we're going to generate cash from working capital this year.
That typically is the case as your business slides – you typically generate cash from working capital changes.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Less than $50 million is that a fair number? Yeah.
I think it'll be less than $50 million.
Yes.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And a last one and then I'll jump back in.
The potential to further enhance liquidity moving forward around other maybe asset sales or anything like that with the non-core production facilities? Again Chase I think the answer is if there are willing buyers we would consider selling.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
All righty.
That's all I have Tony.
I'll turn it back over.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Martin Malloy.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
On the Robotics side could you talk about the outlook for the non-oil-and-gas revenues in the (23:35) wind farms off the UK? Yeah.
We have some awarded work in 2016 in the UK for wind farm work.
We currently have about 110-day project awarded.
That's all trenching work related.
And there's other opportunities out for bid.
(23:55) There are bidding opportunities this year that would presumably impact later years? Okay.
Yeah.
There's still some in bid.
And then we see that going into 2017 and 2018 there's actually a bit of an upturn there on the works we see.
The bids come in generally about a year before the work and we've seen an uptick in the bid potential.
Okay.
And then stacking costs what are they running you when you have those three vessels stacked warm stacked? (24:27).
It depends on the size of the asset but they're considered to be low in the operating cost.
The 534 is in warm stack mode is sub-$30 000.
And if we go to cold stack it's considerably less than that.
We'll end up with no crews on board.
And the warm stack costs in the North Sea are sort of $20 000 to $30 000 a day for each vessel.
Okay.
Thank you.
Okay.
Our next question comes from the line of Marshall Adkins.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning guys.
Obviously you guys did a great job seasonally with the Q4000 and Q5000; a couple of questions on that.
I'm assuming the Q5000's currently down.
Is that accurate? And then secondly tell us what the competitive landscape for those is on the spot market right now.
Are we seeing lower prices? It seems like your pricing held up pretty good for those.
I mean just talk a little bit about both the Q4000 and Q5000 and what that's looking for outside of the contracts we know are coming from the Q5000 in April.
Okay.
Q5 at this time we're just making sure we're 100% ready for the BP contract.
We're finishing up any warranty items that we had left over after the first operations.
So we're in prep phase to make sure that we're 100% ready.
We'll be going out at the end of February early-March to complete the early DP FMEA trials.
And then two weeks after that we'll commence mobilization for BP.
So then we'll be on the full contract for the year there.
The Q4000 we have some legacy contracts at the usual rates.
I'd say about 50% of the year is booked up on older contracts.
We are bidding some work and we have won some recent work at the more the recent environment where we're competing against some of the drilling assets and the rates there have dropped I'd say 30% 40% compared to what they would have been in previous years.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
We still have some days to fill out on the Q4000 but at this time we've got a fairly sizeable backlog but still have days to fill out.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Perfect.
Remind me on the BP contract is that 100% for BP? It seems like you were going to – it wasn't 100% for BP and you were still going to have some openings to do spot work.
Yeah.
Well for 2016 once we go and hire the rest of the year would be entirely for the BP and then the following years it's 270 days per year.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Last question from me we have the Brazil contract with the Siem vessels coming out.
All of us are terrified of Brazil so what confidence level do you have that that thing goes off on the timing that you're thinking or what gives you confidence is maybe a better way to put it.
Marshall this is Owen.
I think since Petrobras first came out and asked us to look at the terms of the contract as they did everybody.
I think one of the things that occurred is that we have two firm contracts already in place.
What gives me some confidence is that Petrobras has stated and to-date I have not seen them terminate any valid in place contract that's the first thing.
Second of all we were told that the negotiations stretched out because we just weren't as high a priority as some of the other things that they had to be dealing with.
Third they've been pretty honorable with us through the whole negotiation.
And even though we have firm take-or-pay contracts with no termination provisions we have shown a willingness to try and work with them to both of our mutual benefit.
And I think that's been appreciated on their part.
I think we're well down the road.
There's just some final things that need to be cleared up.
But we do expect for it to – first of all we have contracts in place.
What I'm talking about are the negotiated amendments that are potential.
And we expect those to go for approval fairly soon.
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
Thank you all.
Our next question comes from the line of Matt Marietta.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning gentlemen.
This is Brooks Braden filling in for Matt Marietta.
How are you all? Good.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Just a couple questions.
For both your existing and upcoming committed work what kind of protection do you have against customers looking for reductions in operating day rates? And kind of as a follow-up how willing are you to defend the utilization at the risk of further erosion? Well that's a big question.
Contract-wise we don't have that many full-term multi-year contracts.
We've mentioned the BP; that one's firm and in place.
The Petrobras contracts I just went through.
The Shell contract we have more years remaining on the current contract.
And we work well with Shell.
So I think our existing contracts are looking good.
The spot market the nearer term spot market that has been awarded on a nearer term basis on a one-off basis there is pressure from the clients to seek further sheltering from expenditure of cash right now.
So I think most of those are – the discussions are more around the timing of when the work gets done rather than the rates.
To get to your question on rates we have been aggressively defending our rates.
In the North Sea the rates are holding up better than the Gulf of Mexico primarily because we don't really compete against drill rigs in the North Sea.
Here in the Gulf of Mexico there has been some pressure from the drill rigs which have required us to be more competitive on our rates.
But where we're trying to be more competitive is in the very short-term outlook spot market in order to fill gaps in the schedule where otherwise we would just be incurring idle asset time at the dock anyway.
So that's where we've been the most aggressive.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's all great color.
Thank you.
And then one follow-up from me.
What kind of blend and extend type opportunities similar to what you all did with the Skandi do you have to kind of take advantage of or potentially pursue to add to your backlog? It looks like that kind of stayed flat quarter-on-quarter.
I'm not quite following the question there but we do have blend and extend contracts that have been amended with all three of the (31:49) Grand Canyon vessels but those vessels will be going out in the spot market.
So it's basically that we've extended the charters but we've taken reductions out through a couple of years on the cost basis.
Inc.</span></strong> Sure.
Okay.
Yeah.
That's what I was getting at.
Thank you.
I'll turn back over.
Okay.
We have a follow-up question from the line of Marshall Adkins.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Well if nobody else is going to ask questions I'm going to jump in and ask few other ones I had.
Kind of off the wall any update on the Schlumberger JV? Do you see anything happening there any work coming in due to that? This is Owen Marshall.
I think as we mentioned on past calls the Schlumberger JV is sort of a long-term prospective for us.
I think all of the projects that we were chasing in combination with Schlumberger are still on the table.
I think this market though just makes the timing of when they occur even less certain than it was before so I'd say it's still in the future.
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
We have started working closely to bring a more efficient package to the clients where both parties are adding their assets on to our vessels and we're looking at risk and different ways of contracting to the clients.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Tony...
(33:20) Inc.</span></strong> Go ahead.
Go ahead Marshall.
Go ahead Marshall.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Tony just some housekeeping items so we don't have to follow up too much offline.
Can you help us with – you gave us good guidance on the CapEx but looking out to next year I know your overall guidance would need to wait until the work comes in but can you help us with the SG&amp;A depreciation the corporate elimination stuff? I know you all have been cutting costs.
Any stuff on that you can share with us in terms of directional guidance? I expect SG&amp;A spending certainly we're not adding anything.
If anything I expect SG&amp;A to go down.
My only caveat there is we booked some pretty low levels of stock compensation in 2015 because of how the stock price dropped.
But from a pure cash standpoint I expect SG&amp;A to come down in 2016.
Inc.</span></strong> And I assume depreciation obviously with the write-downs comes down pretty sharply.
Can you give us a magnitude of that? Yeah depreciation will actually go up because of the Q5000.
Inc.</span></strong> Oh that's right.
That's right.
Erik do you want to add? We are taking out the 534.
534 will stop but the (34:43) will have more depreciation...
Yeah we'll have a full year of the Q5000 as opposed to we had a partial year in 2015.
Inc.</span></strong> So any guidance – I mean a lot of moving parts there.
Obviously for us to put all that together is going to be pretty tough.
Any annual guidance you can give on depreciation at this stage or should we wait? Marshall let's get back to you offline because I don't want to shoot numbers off the top of my head and be wrong.
Inc.</span></strong> Got you.
Last one on me.
You mentioned in the comments P&amp;A activity.
I assume that's still fairly muted so far.
Is that the case or are you hearing any rumblings on the P&amp;A side? We're being approached by producers that have expressed interest in getting P&amp;A work done.
In the most recent environment though I think the overwhelming driver was that they just didn't want to spend cash at all.
Now P&amp;A is regulatory-driven but as we all know there are certain things you can do to defer it and move it around.
And to the extent that they can they have elected to defer any work at all including P&amp;A as long as they can but that's a rubber band that's sort of getting stretched back.
So at some point P&amp;A will start to increase again.
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
Guys very helpful.
Thanks again.
Our next question comes from the line of Joe Gibney.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Just a quick question on first quarter utilization within your Well Ops fleet Tony just kind of tracking towards this breakeven EBITDA profile embedded in that assumption is the Skandi the Q5000 and the Well Enhancer to be there sort of this breakeven at best EBITDA? I mean should I just be assuming that they're just not working at all in 1Q? I'm just trying to understand the depth of this utilization trough in the first quarter that you're implying for some of those assets.
Yeah.
The Skandi is likely to have zero utilization in Q1 the Q5000 as well because we're strictly focused on get ready for BP.
So it's going to have zero utilization.
The Well Enhancer does have some contracted backlog but it doesn't start until March.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And in terms of the timing of the cold stack of the 534 I mean is it imminent? Is that more getting it ready for second-half? I missed that in your comments if you indicated it.
We'll have that process concluded within the next two weeks.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Okay.
And then last one from me...
Joe if I could...
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah go ahead.
If I could just add on the 534 the 534 was purely a cash cost savings decision.
The potential to work the 534 you could say might be there.
But the cost to bring it back out of cold stack during the first 12 months is probably less than the cost to maintain it in warm stack.
And the amount of time to bring it back out of cold stack is not that detrimental given the visibility on the timing of engineering the project should one occur.
So that's sort of giving you some color behind the decision.
It was literally just to conserve some more cash.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Helpful.
I'll turn it back.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Haithum Nokta.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
I was going to I guess ask maybe to expand a little bit on Marshall's last question on P&amp;A and I guess decommissioning-related work.
I guess particularly in the North Sea can you talk about maybe how customer body language has changed from maybe like the November/December timeframe to now? Would you say at the oil price of $40 $45 that there could've been some P&amp;A or a lot more P&amp;A work this year but the collapse to $30 a barrel kind of just wiped that out? Or was the plan all along to kind of just kind of keep cutting cash cost as much as possible for operators? Going into the year we always knew that Q1 from a seasonal perspective was going to be very quiet from a Well Intervention side of the business in the UK.
There is P&amp;A activity going on in the North Sea.
I would say that the price of oil going down into the $30s has made the clients reevaluate when they'll take the work and if they'll do some of that work this year.
We expect to see one of the vessels busy on our outlook right now.
We're in discussions to get a second vessel with fairly high utilization.
But again we're in those discussions.
And the clients are somewhat more erratic than in the past and certainly taking longer time to contract up.
And within that time they're always trying to get a rate reduction also.
Right.
Right.
Okay.
And then just two kind of more modeling questions but I guess closer to the fourth quarter this year once the first Siem vessel goes on contract in Brazil are the average costs in Brazil going to be meaningfully higher than kind of your average costs now between the Gulf of Mexico and North Sea or will they be consistent? They're fairly consistent across each asset.
Okay.
And then for the Grand...
The one thing - Go ahead Erik try and clear.
(40:42) The difference there just to point out because it is chartered vessels for Brazil it'll have a higher cash component cost as opposed to an owned vessels.
Right.
Okay.
And then lastly on the Grand Canyon III can you just – startup now pushed to 2017 is that correct or how did that work? Yeah correct.
We're originally planning to have the vessel come to us in April of 2016.
We've completed a blend and extend there with the owners of the vessel where we'll now keep the vessel in a very low cold stack rate for a one year commencing in May so that'll take you through to May 2017.
We can start up the vessel in relatively short order; we've been told we can start up within two weeks to three weeks if the market changes and we decide to bring it up.
So basically we have a very low cold stack rate and the charter doesn't commence until May of 2017.
Okay.
All right.
That's all I had.
Thank you.
I'll turn it back.
Okay.
We have a follow-up question from the line of Chase Mulvehill.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Thanks for letting me back in.
Here I'll ask a couple more questions.
So if we think of the IRS systems in 2016 versus 2015 you're going to have two IRS systems in the rental market right now that you're going to cold stack the H534? Yes we'll have two available but we do see the rental market being far less in 2016 than we had in 2015.
We had two longer term contracts for two units for most of 2015 for both units.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So those were effectively fully utilized throughout 2015 and one unit goes down...
One was fully utilized...
Inc.</span></strong> Sorry? One was fully utilized and one went on hire in June of 2015.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then one will go down in the first quarter for maintenance right? Correct.
Yes.
Inc.</span></strong> And so you don't have any – you basically got to go to the spot market and try to get these things rented right? You don't have any contracts as of yet? They are both currently concluding the contracts they're on now.
They're having their rework completed and then forward-looking we don't see any contracts right now.
We have two bid potential out there but there's not much that we're seeing right now.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
All right.
And will the Skandi be warm stacked the entire first quarter? Yes.
Inc.</span></strong> And is there a – what's the cost difference between warm stacking and basically just marketing it? Basically we have a lot of charter costs.
But we've taken all of our personnel off the vessel for Q1.
And to be able to market it and go to work the next day we'd have to carry a significant amount of people onboard the vessel.
So with the visibility we have now we've released and they're all apart from one or two guys on the vessel from the company.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So do they still have the marine crew on there? I know you (44:04) Marine crew is onboard a smaller marine crew is onboard.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
All right.
And then so Robotics as we kind of move forward into 1Q assuming it'd be hard to breakeven EBITDA does that assume that Robotics is negative EBITDA? I think Robotics will be in the same boat as Well Intervention in Q1; it will struggle to break even.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
All right.
And you're talking EBITDA not EBIT correct? I'm talking EBITDA right.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Robotics is – it will be challenging for Robotics to break even from EBITDA standpoint in Q1.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Last one and sorry if you've mentioned this earlier did you talk about when you plan to do the HP1 dry dock? The HP1 dry dock will now be end of Q3 2016.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And can we just go back I think it was what 2013 and look at the last time it was dry dock and assume that that'll be I think it was 46 days back then and Production Facilities' EBITDA declined by I think it was roughly $4 million.
Is that a fair modeling assumption? This dry dock will be considerably less than the 46 days.
It's an intermediate dry dock.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Also the oil prices...
Inc.</span></strong> That's all I have.
The oil prices are significantly lower now than they were back then.
And I don't think the $4 million would be comparable.
And the speculation on the dry dock days is purely speculation because on a dry dock you really don't know how many days you're going to have until you actually haul out.
And then the regulators come onboard and they develop your work scope.
So as we get closer we'll be able to give you some better visibility on the potential length of the dry dock.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So I'll squeeze in one more.
So back on your net debt guidance or expectations I won't call it guidance of $350 million to $390 million what does that include for working capital and tax refunds? Is there a range or anything we should be thinking about? Well since we don't want you to solve the riddle of EBITDA we're not going to give you those ranges either Chase.
All we're going to say is that we expect working capital to be positive and tax refunds to contribute positively in cash.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
All righty.
Well thanks for the time.
Thank you.
We have a follow-up question from the line of Martin Malloy.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
How much is left to spend on the Q7000 after 2016? Post-2016 – Erik help me out here.
I'm going to say about $230 million to $250 million.
That's in the right range.
Post-2016.
That's inclusive of our internal costs.
Inclusive of our project costs.
Yeah.
The shipyard the remaining shipyard balance is more like $210 million.
Correct.
$210 million all right.
Is that remaining shipyard balance is that mostly due when you would take delivery of it potentially out in late-2018? On the shipyard side two-thirds of that figure is upon delivery.
Okay.
And maintenance CapEx I think you've got $30 million in there for this year.
As we look out with the Siem vessels working maybe the $30 million to $40 million area is that a good range for maintenance CapEx ongoing annually? On a straight line basis yes but it'll be lumpy depending on the timing of the dry docks.
2017 CapEx is projected to be far below 2016.
Okay.
And then just one last question it seems like you all have been competing with some of the floating drilling rigs that are under contract for doing Well Intervention P&amp;A work.
As those contracts continue to roll off is there any change or impact on you all in terms of the competitive dynamics in the market for well intervention P&amp;A work? I think that's one of the variables that we're trying to track with some of our market tracking.
It's unclear to us how aggressive the rig operators are going to be in trying to maintain a fully operational rig and chase what is essentially two weeks to three weeks spot market jobs out in the open market.
Historically it's not been a pattern that rig operators have followed but this time we have seen a few that are attempting or at least talking about doing it.
So how many do it and how long they persist in doing it are two of the things that we're tracking that makes it difficult to quantify how much market share that we sacrifice to them.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Bill Dezellem.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Would you dive into some more detail on your incise from conversations with customers about their desire to spend money to enhance production in this environment versus just totally trying to reduce their cash outflow? I can't – it differs from client to client.
But I'd say in general I think there's a broad desire on the part of at least the operating level of the producers to spend money on production enhancement but the mandate is from corporate to just not spend any cash.
So you're really seeing two different mindsets; corporate mindset versus the guys that are actually responsible for the individual field's mindset? That's correct.
We're seeing the work out there that is to be done.
It's just when is the corporate mindset going to come – get a little more – find a little more ease in making the call to release the funds.
I think I think what you will see and this is pure blue sky on my part but these wells can only go so long without being worked on.
So decision to not spend cash today is purely bad as a short-term decision but eventually I think you'll see a lot more unbudgeted work starting to crop up.
And one additional follow-up.
What's the timing if and when the corporate group says okay it's all right to spend some money that you can move forward and the guys in the field can make that decision? Is that reasonably quick within a quarter's time period or does this stretch out longer than that due to the complexity of many of these fields? I think it has more to do with the timing of the budgeting process.
You know what the producers go through a budgeting process.
Once the budget's set it's pretty much set for the remainder of the year.
So I think for them to start allocating funds over and above budgets.
And I don't know how they're doing this internally.
They could be setting two budgets one main budget and one contingency budget.
We don't have that kind of visibility with our clients.
But that's some of the input that we're waiting to get back from the clients.
We know that they had the work to be done.
We know corporate doesn't want to spend the cash.
The question is how do they get it done and when.
Great.
Thank you for taking the question.
Responding to the word technically is within a quarter.
It's easy for us to respond from a technical point and man up to the project and the project regulatory requirements are all easily done.
Thank you both.
And there are currently no further questions on the phone lines at the moment.
Okay.
Well thanks for joining us today.
We very much appreciate your interest and participation and look forward to having you on our first quarter 2016 call in April.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask you please disconnect your lines.