Good morning and thank you for joining us today for Hovnanian Enterprises' Fiscal 2011 First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions].
Management will make some opening remarks about the first quarter results and then open up the line for questions.
The company will also be webcasting a slide presentation along with the opening comments from management.
The slides are available on the Investors Page of the company's website at www.khov.com.
Those listeners who would like to follow along should log on to the website at this time.
Before we begin I would like to remind everyone that the cautionary language about forward-looking statements contained in the press release also applies to any comments made during this conference call and to the information in the slide presentation.
I will now like to turn the conference call over Ara Hovananian Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of Hovnanian Enterprises.
Ara please go ahead.
Thank you and good morning.
Thanks for participating in today's call to review the results of our first quarter ended January of 2011.
Joining me today from the company are Larry Sorsby Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Paul Buchanan Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer; Brad O'Connor Vice President and Corporate Controller; David Valiaveedan Vice President of Finance and Treasurer; and Jeff O'Keefe Vice President Investor Relations.
On Slide 3 you can see brief summary of our first quarter results.
While our results are generally in line with our expectations and analysts' consensus projections as we have said in the past there's still a lot of room for improvement.
Slide 4 shows monthly net contracts per community.
You can see that we experienced a seasonal shift fall off in sales during November and December.
This was followed by a typical seasonal rebound both in traffic and sales during January and February.
However even with the pickup in sales in January and February the sales pace per community is slightly below levels of a year ago when the homebuyer’s tax credit was available.
While we would have hoped for even stronger results in February based on early sales and traffic results we are feeling good about the spring selling season coming up.
On Slide 5 you can see what contracts per community look like on an annual basis.
The key takeaway from the slide is that even though the pace per community is not improving the free fall that we experienced from 2004 to 2008 has stabilized during the past two years at 23 net contracts per community.
There's a lot of upside from these low levels before we get back to more normalized levels like what we saw from 1997 to 2002 a period that was neither boom nor bust when we averaged at about 44 net contracts per community.
The key component in seeing sales pace return to more normalized levels will be job growth and improvement in consumer confidence.
We've begun to see some signs of improving consumer confidence as seen on Slide 6.
This graph shows the consumer confidence index going back to the beginning of '95.
Most recently the February index at 70.4 was significantly higher than the trough of 25.3 that we saw in February of '09.
While not yet normal it’s clearly a step in the right direction.
There's little that we can do to influence the direction of the economy but we can remain focused on positioning our company to return to profitability and that's what we are doing.
Two of the key drivers for us to get back to profitability are increasing the mix of deliveries from our newly identified communities versus our legacy communities and for us to grow our top line through increases in our community count.
On average deliveries from these newly identified communities are expected to generate about a 20% gross margin as we increase our mix of newly identified communities and shrink our mix of legacy communities our consolidated margins should continue to improve.
At the same time growing our community count should grow our revenues allowing us to leverage our fixed overhead and interest costs.
On slide 7 you can see that our community count including joint ventures increased from 189 to 201 year-over-year.
While the holiday season is not normally a busy time to open new communities during the first quarter we opened 20 new communities many of them just on the pre-sales basis before models.
At the same time we sold out 23 existing communities.
While it's difficult to project community count from quarter to quarter as long as we continue to find new land opportunities that achieve our 25% plus IRR underwriting criteria we expect our community count will continue to grow over time.
At the end of the first quarter 60% of the communities that were opened for sale were newly identified communities that we controlled after January 31 2009.
However only 30% of the deliveries in the first quarter were from newly identified land.
Since many of these newly identified communities are recently opened they will not begin to deliver until the end of 2011.
As long as we see no changes in market conditions this mix shift should cause our gross margins to have improved at the end of the year.
While we don't have a specific target for community count that we're going to set today we do expect to see the number of active selling communities increased during fiscal 2011.
Slide 8 shows the progress we've made in purchasing or optioning new land parcels.
From January of '09 to January of '11 we’ve purchased or optioned approximately 15 200 lots in 264 communities.
As you can see on the bottom left-hand side of the slide we optioned 1 850 new lots in the first quarter and bought about 50 new lots that weren't previously optioned.
We then walked away from about 1 700 lots 90% of which had virtually no cost as these lots were still in the initial due diligence period.
We walked for a variety of reasons including some slower absorption paces or in some cases price declines that occurred after the property was put under option during investigation.
The net result for the quarter is that our total lots purchased or controlled since January of '09 increased by about 200 lots.
During the first quarter we purchased about 550 newly identified lots in 60 communities.
In addition we purchased about 700 lots from legacy options.
In total we spent approximately $75 million of cash in the quarter to purchase 1 300 lots and to develop land across the country.
Slide 9 shows gross margins.
Annual margins are on the left side and quarterly margins are on the right side.
The first quarter of 2011 marked the eighth consecutive quarter of year-over-year increases in gross margin.
Even without $25.5 million of impairment reversals in the first quarter of 2011 and $49.2 million of impairment reversals in the first quarter of 2010 our margins would have shown a year-over-year improvement.
As we have said in the past gross margins have the potential to fluctuate from quarter to quarter.
Sequentially gross margin was flat this quarter.
As we’ve said on the last conference call and assuming no change in market conditions we continue to expect better gross margins toward the end of fiscal 2011.
During the first quarter our gross margin was 16.9%.
This is still below our normalized gross margin which for us is in the 20% to 21% range like those achieved in 2000 or 2001 fiscal years.
In fiscal 2011 we continue to expect more than 40% of our deliveries will come from the newly identified land.
So if home prices remain stable our gross margin should continue to improve in 2011 even without a recovery.
But we don't expect gross margins to get to the normal 20% range this year.
On the right side of Slide 10 the bar shows the absolute dollar amount of total SG&amp;A is lower when compared to the first quarter of last year and the fourth quarter of 2010.
However when you look at total SG&amp;A as a percentage of total revenues as we have shown underneath the bars on the right-hand side of Slide 10 the 21.9% for the first quarter of fiscal '11 is much higher than our historical norm.
This increase has come despite continued reductions in our staffing levels.
We incrementally reduced our staffing levels by another 5.4% or 88 associates during the past three months.
Clearly we needed a little more top line growth to get the efficiencies.
In spite of our rightsizing efforts we still have growth capacity at corporate and our divisional and regional offices.
As we open new communities we should not need to add associates to our corporate or divisional offices.
Incremental spending related to increasing our community count will come at the community levels.
Typically we need to add a construction supervisor and at least one sales associate per new community.
Over time the combination of further improvements in gross margin trending back to normalized gross margins in the 20% range coupled with SG&amp;A leverage as we grow our community count and increase revenues will get us to the point where home building operations are once again profitable.
We have our work cut out for us to find new land parcels to invest in that will bring us the kind of returns that we need to continue down the path to profitability.
Fortunately deal flow remains steady as we continue to approve land acquisitions on a regular basis.
I'll now turn it over to Larry who'll discuss our inventory liquidity and mortgage operations as well as a few additional areas.
Thanks Ara.
Let me start with the discussion of our current inventory from a couple of different perspectives.
Turning to Slide 11 you'll see our owned and optioned land position broken out by our publicly reported segments.
Based on trailing twelve-month deliveries we own 4.2 years worth of land.
Our owned lot position increased sequentially in the first quarter while our optioned lot position decreased.
During the first quarter we walked away from 2 600 lots of which 1 700 were in just two communities.
One with a 900 lot newly identified community that didn't make it past the initial due diligence period.
And the other was an 800 lot legacy community that no longer met our performance hurdles.
We purchased approximately 1 300 lots during the first quarter which was offset by about 850 deliveries and the sale of about 200 lots.
On the option side of the equation we walked away from 2 600 optioned lots.
Additionally we signed new option contracts for an additional 1 600 lots during the quarter.
At the end of the first quarter 66% of our option lots are newly identified lots and 21% of our owned lots were newly identified lots.
When you combine our optioned and owned land 39% of the total lots that we control today are newly identified lots.
On Slide 12 we show a breakdown of the 18 711 lots we owned at the end of the first quarter.
Approximately 38% of these were 80% or more finished 12% had 30% to 80% of the improvements are already in place and the remaining 50% have less than 30% of the improvement dollars spent.
While our primary focus is on purchasing improved lots it is difficult to find finished lots for sale today at a reasonable price.
About 35% of the remaining newly identified lots we've purchased or contracted to purchase are lots where it makes economic sense to do some level of land development.
And we started to complete land development on sections of our legacy land as well.
Now I'll turn briefly to land-related charges which can be seen on Slide 13.
We booked $6.8 million of land impairments in four communities during the first quarter.
$4.6 million of this was on one land parcel that we have an agreement to sell in New Jersey.
Some newly identified communities from 2009 are no longer hitting hurdle rates because of slower absorption pace or pricing pressure.
To date we have impaired only one newly identified community.
This was a $1.1 million impairment on a single community in California this quarter.
During the first quarter our walk away charges were $6.7 million with $6 million of the total charge split evenly between one community in California and one community in New Jersey.
In total we booked $13.5 million of land-related impairment and walk away charges in the first quarter of fiscal 2011.
79% of these charges were related to just three communities.
Our investment and land option deposits was $28.4 million at January 31 2011 with $25.3 million being in cash deposits and the other $3.1 million of deposits being held by letters of credit.
Additionally we have another $23.3 million invested in pre-development expenses.
Turning to Slide 14.
We show that we have 7 514 lots and 53 communities that were mothballed as of January 31 2011.
And on this slide we break these lots out by geographic segment.
The book value at the end of the first quarter for these communities was $167 million net of an impairment balance of $543 million.
We are carrying these mothballed lots at 24% of their original value.
Looking at our consolidated communities in the aggregate including mothballed communities we have an inventory book value of $948 million net of $860 million of impairments which were recorded on 157 of our communities.
Of the properties that have been impaired we're carrying them at 27% of their pre-impaired value.
Turning now to Slide 15.
On a sequential basis the number of started unsold homes excluding models continues to decrease.
We ended the first quarter with 777 started unsold homes.
This translates to 4.1 started and unsold homes per active selling community unchanged from the end of the fourth quarter and lower than our long-term average of 4.9 unsold homes per community.
Another area of discussion for the quarter is related to our current and deferred tax asset valuation allowance.
During the first quarter the tax asset valuation charged to earnings was $22 million.
At the end of the first quarter the valuation allowance in the aggregate was $833 million.
We view this as a very significant asset not currently reflected on our balance sheet.
We expect to be able to reverse this allowance after we generate consecutive years of profitability.
When the reversal does occur the remaining allowance will be added back to our shareholders' equity and will further strengthen our balance sheet.
Pro forma for our recent capital markets transaction we ended the quarter with a total shareholders' deficit of $279 million.
If you add back the total valuation allowance as we've done on Slide 16 our total shareholders’ equity would be $554 million.
Let me reiterate that the tax asset valuation allowance is for GAAP purposes only.
For tax purposes our tax assets may be carried forward for 20 years and we expect to utilize those tax loss carryforwards as we generate profits in the future.
For the first $1.8 billion of pretax profits we generate we will not have to pay any federal income taxes.
Now let me update you briefly on the mortgage markets and our mortgage finance operations.
Turning to Slide 17 you can see that the credit quality of our mortgage customers continues to be strong with an average FICO score of 736.
During the first quarter our mortgage company captured 78% of our non-cash home-buying customers.
Turning to Slide 18 here we show a breakout of all of the various loan types originated by our mortgage operations during the first quarter of fiscal 2011 compared to all of fiscal 2010.
48.4% of our originations were FHA/VA during the first quarter of fiscal 2011 similar to the 49.3% we saw during all of fiscal 2010.
There's a lot of discussion about how the federal government's involvement in the residential mortgage industry will change in the future.
We are confident that the government will take cautious and appropriate steps to ensure that there is a valid mortgage market that can be accessed by individuals looking to purchase a home.
What has been released so far has been pretty vague and nothing is likely to be implemented during the next several years.
Needless to say this is something we'll be keeping an eye on.
Let me update you quickly about what's happening with loan repurchase requests.
We continue to believe that the vast majority of repurchase request that we've received are unjustified.
On Slide 19 you'll see our payments from fiscal 2008 through fiscal 2010 were relatively minimal.
While we did not make any payments during the first quarter of 2011 we did receive 17 repurchase inquiries which was a little less than last year's quarterly average of about 25 inquiries.
It is our policy to estimate and reserve for potential losses when we sell loans to investors.
All of the above losses have been adequately reserved for in previous periods.
At the end of the first quarter our reserve for loan repurchases and make whole request was $5.7 million which we believe is adequate for our exposure.
To date repurchases have not been a significant problem but we continue to closely monitor it.
In general mortgages are available today.
However lenders are asking for more evidence that the borrowers are creditworthy so consumers have to provide more loan approval documentation than previously required.
Although loan approval standards have not materially changed during the past three to six months it is true that the file for loan applications today is much thicker than it has been in the past.
Mortgages however remain available today for creditworthy applicants.
Our homebuilding contract cancellation rates continue to remain at normal levels.
Our cancellation rate for the first quarter was 22% similar to last year's first quarter of 21% and 200 basis points lower than the 24% we had during our fourth quarter of 2010.
Turning to Slide 20 it shows some details of the capital market transactions that we executed in early February of 2011.
Including the exercise of the underwriters Green Shoe [ph] (29:53) we raised about $300 million through the common stock tangible equity units and senior unsecured note offerings.
And currently we tendered for our senior and senior subordinated notes that matured in 2012 and 2013.
63% of these notes were tendered and the remainder have been called.
The net result of these transactions assist us in strengthening our balance sheet by increasing our cash position by about $124 million net of fees and expenses and clearing the deck of near-term maturities.
Turning to Slide 21 it shows a debt maturity schedule pro forma for these transactions.
What you see very clearly is that we have very little in the way of debt coming due through the end of 2014.
Our cash position can be seen on Slide 22.
At the end of January after spending approximately $75 million of cash to purchase 1 300 lots and on overall new land development across the company we had $399.3 million of homebuilding cash at quarter end.
This cash position does not include $88.3 million of restricted cash used to collateralize letters of credit which has declined from $135 million at the end of fiscal 2009.
The final bar on this chart shows a pro forma cash balance of $523 million which is our cash position at the end of the first quarter with additional cash from our debt and equity transactions that closed early in our second quarter.
As we announced on our fourth quarter conference call we closed a joint venture with GTIS [GoldenTree InSite] Partners in December of 2010.
Looking forward our strategy on joint ventures has not changed.
We still intend to utilize joint ventures for larger land transactions.
We're comfortable with our current liquidity position.
The additional capital we raised gives us more drive power to invest in land.
Investments in land is needed to grow our community count and in turn our top line which will eventually drive greater operating efficiencies and return us to profitability.
Now let me turn it back to Ara for some brief closing comments.
Well needless to say we are anxious to return to profitability.
On Slide 23 we've developed some simplistic potential scenarios to illustrate what it would take for us to achieve break-even results.
On the top of the slide we assumed that our SG&amp;A spending continues at levels similar to the first quarter of 2011.
This would be an annual expense of about $220 million per year.
While we include internal commissions and outside brokerage costs in cost of goods sold which impacts our gross margin and not our selling costs other general selling costs could increase with a higher volume depending on things such as sales per community advertising expenditures number of communities et cetera.
However for this simplistic analysis we assumed that SG&amp;A is flat at our most recent quarterly rate.
We also noted our cash interest incurred of $155 million per year creating a total fixed cost in this simplistic scenario of $375 million per year.
The middle of the slide shows the revenues and deliveries necessary at different gross margins to achieve break-even results assuming the above fixed costs.
So if our gross margin stayed at 17% we’d need revenues of $2.2 billion with 7 353 deliveries assuming our current average price of $300 000.
If margins were more normalized at 20% levels we'd need revenues of $1.875 billion or about 6 250 deliveries.
Finally at the bottom of this slide we showed the number of required communities based on different levels of deliveries per year per community.
In this oversimplified model if deliveries stayed at 23 per year with our current 17% gross margin we’d need approximately 320 deliveries.
If annual deliveries increased to 33 per community still below our non-boom normal times of 44 but increasing from our approximately two sales per month to 2.75 sales per month and if margins also normalized at 20% then we'd need only 189 communities similar to the number of wholly-owned communities that are open for sale today.
While these scenarios are oversimplifying the very complex situation assuming fixed costs of $375 million this does provide some perspective of the metrics we would need to achieve break-even results.
We think these metrics are achievable and reasonably in the not too distant future.
Before I turn it over to SG&amp;A I'd like to take a moment to comment on our upcoming change in our executive management team.
After 30 years with our company Paul Buchanan Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer will be retiring this May.
Paul joined our company in 1981 as Corporate Controller.
And to put it into perspective I believe the year Paul started we had revenues somewhere around $50 million per year.
Since then Paul has served as a strong leader and trusted advisor as the company experienced significant growth and challenging market cycles.
His contributions are far too many to list.
Thank you Paul.
Brad O'Connor will be assuming Paul's responsibilities as Chief Accounting Officer.
Brad has been in training with Paul for the last seven years and has been preparing for a seamless and smooth transition.
With that I'll be pleased to open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from the line of David Goldberg from UBS.
This is actually Susan for David.
Just wanted to get some more details in terms of the current order trends and what your thoughts are heading into the spring selling season.
You did about one order per community in the last quarter per month.
What do you think would be a good selling season what do you -- do you have any kind of targets that you can talk to us about and sort of where you are relative to that? I think if you can turn to Slide 4 it kind of puts it into basic perspective.
Both what the current trend has been which has been an upward direction since the trough in December of 2010 when we were at 1.2 we went to 1.8 in January '11 and then 1.9 in February '11.
And you can see how that compares to last February and January as an indication when the sales -- or the homebuyer tax credit was in place you can see that last year we had a very similar increase from January to February of 0.1 net contracts per community identical to this year's 0.1 increase but we are below the absolute level when the homebuyer tax credit was in place.
You can also see on this slide what happened in March and April of last year as well.
So that just gives you some idea of what we're kind of looking to achieve going forward.
Obviously this is still nowhere near normalized spring selling seasons before this unprecedented downturn.
But the trend's in the right direction and as Ara said we're feeling good.
We always would like to see more sales but we're feeling good.
Okay.
And are you seeing generally speaking a lot of pricing discipline out there? And what are your thoughts about potentially having to increase incentives or lower prices or something along those lines in order to drive greater traffic if you need to do that? I'd say we saw pricing pressure November and December it was a slow time of the period -- of the selling season always but there was definitely more pricing pressure.
More recently things definitely feel a little more stable in terms of pricing as well as velocity.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Oppenheim from Crédit Suisse.
Hi this is actually Mike Dahl on for Dan.
Just a question on some of the comments you had on the more recent land purchases.
You mentioned that some of the 2009 purchases aren't meeting hurdle rates anymore but we've only see one of those communities impaired.
I guess why aren't we seeing more impairments on these communities? What should we expect going forward? And then presumably 2010 the land prices were generally increasing so is it fair to say that the 2010 purchases are also not meeting hurdles? Yes.
First of all while there has been deterioration we haven't had enough deterioration to bring the overwhelming majority of our new purchases into a position of having to impair.
That being said there certainly has been pressure on pricing as I've mentioned and we've mentioned on previous phone calls.
And some of the -- it's been choppy I'd say.
We certainly have many communities that are meeting or exceeding the hurdle rates but we certainly have some that were purchased particularly the ones earlier in '09 that are not achieving our hurdle rates.
Nonetheless they're performing at a rate that it’s -- that they don't require any impairment other than the small one that we discussed this quarter.
Got it.
So I mean in terms of the -- if we think about the margins there if you were underwriting to a 20% margin I mean what's the level that we're at on some of those is it 15% is it 18%? I mean on some of them we're above the 20% we're above underwriting.
On some we're below.
There was only one that had deterioration either in or a combination of pace and/or price that caused a -- of an impairment.
But these are all very fact-specific situations to a specific community.
So I wouldn't take any broad-based conclusion that because we had one community that took an impairment and we stated that there are some that we've gotten below the hurdle rate that it’s the majority or anything close to the majority of what we've done.
And also much of what we've controlled in 2010 we did in the last half of the year of 2010 the vast majority of our 2010 was in the last half of 2010 after the market had already slowed down so that we were able to take that into account in our underwriting criteria.
So we're pleased at this point given market conditions with the deals that we have done and hopefully the market will stabilize or even improve from here.
And we'll ultimately get even better returns on the properties that we’ve controlled since the end of January 2009.
Okay.
That makes sense.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan.
First question on the orders from new communities.
I think you said that at this point in terms of your total communities open 60% are new or newly purchased since '09 but what is the amount of percentage of orders that you're taking in as a percent of total from new and how does that compare to the last couple of quarters? I don't think we have that detail at our fingertips certainly don’t have it tracked that way.
What we can say is that many of the communities that are newly identified that are now open for sale have recently opened for sale.
And as Ara mentioned some of them are kind of in pre-sale mode without models being completed yet.
And therefore the deliveries are going to be waited to the latter part of 2011 as we've got to get the models done.
And then actually build the homes that we're starting to sell on a pre-sell basis today and then after grand opening obviously more.
We just don't have that data available Mike.
Okay.
So let me just ask it another way and I also just wanted to get one last question if I could.
You have 30% of your closings today from new communities does that mean that you could get to 50% or greater by the end of the year and then my second kind of separate question is on the break-even analysis and I know that's kind of a rough as Ara said is kind of rough basic numbers but I noticed you were using 300 ASP.
And for the last several quarters it's been pretty consistent around 280 so that's a 7% difference.
Is that based on your newer communities and where you expect the ASP to shift towards? Or are you assuming an improvement in price or is that just kind of the rough analysis that you were doing? Let me take a shot at it.
First of all what we've said for the full-year is that 40% of our deliveries at least 40% we're expecting to be from newly identified communities.
So you could -- it's going to be weighted towards the latter part of the year.
So you can make whatever assumptions you want but that's pretty clear guidance I think to provide you.
With respect to the overly simplistic as Ara described it break-even analysis you shouldn't read anything into the 300 000.
It was just a nice round number to use in the calculation to give an illustration of what break-even results would be.
If you want to change it to our current average sales prices it's pretty easy to do.
Okay.
I believe our average price of contracts for the quarter was about $293 000 so the very in-depth [ph] (35:36) was on our release.
So pretty close to $300 000.
We're just rounding it.
Your next question comes from the line of Carl Reichardt from Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> On the Slide 12 that you guys have included often with the percentage of lots and development stage is there a concentration geographically of assets in either the lots that are under 30% developed or over 80% developed? I'm kind of scanning the room to see whether any of my team members have a clue.
I think we have some concentration of the undeveloped in California a little more than the other markets.
That being said it’s not a dramatic number.
We probably have the highest concentration of developed lots in the Texas market.
LLC</strong> Okay I would assume so.
And then the mothballed lots are included in there too right Larry? Yes.
The mothballed are included and they're probably weighted towards the less than 30% developed and that's probably geographically-weighted California and New Jersey.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Super.
And then next question Ara has there been a change or maybe you can talk a little bit about the amount of time it's taking if you get a person new to attract from -- and you count them as traffic how long is it taking them if you convert them before they sign? And has that time lapse between first visit and contract sign changed much? Maybe you can talk a little bit how that's evolved over the last year or two? Yes.
I don't think it's changed over the last year or two.
Needless to say in general it's far greater than it was five years ago.
Interestingly it's a mix it's really a polar mix.
We've got some that make multiple multiple decisions and it's strung out over a long period of time particularly as they wait to sell their homes.
On the other hand we have traffic that comes in they finally sold their house they weren't serious about looking until they sold it.
And now they need something right away.
So it's really a mix but I wouldn't say that there is a dramatic shift in that regard.
I will say just from touring around our offices over the last month on the West Coast out in Texas in Florida in general we're definitely getting the sense that our sales people are getting increasingly enthusiastic about the traffic the willingness and the interest of and the seriousness of the traffic that they're seeing out in the marketplace.
LLC</strong> Right.
I appreciate the color guys.
Your next question comes from the line of Jonathan Ellis from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
My first question is related to margin it's sort of a two-part question.
First is can you give any update on the gross margin spread between newer land versus older land? I think in the past you had said it's about a 500-basis-point spread.
I'm wondering if that's still a good assumption to be using.
And then the second question on margins is any insight you can give us into non-price based incentives? To what extent those are being ratcheted up? And if they're having success one thing we've heard is that options and upgrades have become much more prevalent in the last month as a way to entice buyers so any update on the use of incentives? Well when we talk about pricing I always prefer the net pricing because it really doesn't matter where it comes from more or less.
And that's where I was saying there was pricing pressure in November December.
Most recently it’s definitely felt a little more stable.
Generally though I think your observation is correct there has been more of a tendency among new home builders to do other than the standard kind of closing costs approach which is always helpful because it reduces the down payment requirement there's definitely more emphasis on incentives that are used if they -- toward options and upgrades only.
Generally speaking that's a little less costly than outright price lowering obviously.
And then just a question on land the gross margin spread between new and older land? I don't know where you got the 500 basis points differential.
I think what we said in the past is your best estimate of what the legacy margins were maybe at the end of the third or fourth quarter last year I don't remember precisely when we might have said that would have been what our total gross margin was because we didn't have a lot of deliveries from newly identified communities.
And that's -- on average the newly identified communities would average something close to 20%.
It obviously depends on whether it's a Texas kind of community because we don't underwrite to a margin we underwrite to an IRR.
And in Texas where we're optioning finished lots on a just-in-time basis the gross margin might be lower than 20% but we get high inventory turns.
And then in Washington DC on a newly identified lot the margin might be significantly higher than 20% but it's a lower inventory turn to get to our 25-plus percent unlevered IRR so it just depends on where the newly identified community is as to what the margin is.
But on average it is around that 20% kind of number that we think that is normalized gross margins for Hovnanian.
Okay.
Great.
And then my second question just on the financing side.
I don't know if you have it available but obviously a lot of talk about conforming loan limits and how those may be ratcheted down over time.
Do you have any granularity you can share in terms of percentage of deliveries tied to mortgages or the principal balance between $625 000 and $730 000 and then also within the sort of the traditional conforming level of $417 000 up to $625 000? Not at my fingertips.
I'm sure we have it at our mortgage company but I don't have that data readily available.
But our backlog average sales price and backlog today is $307 000 Paul? So we don't have a whole lot of our product that averages dramatically higher than that.
So I don't think we're a big user of non-conforming I mean certainly we have some communities that use the higher loan limits but it's not a large percentage of what we do but I just don't have the data at my fingertips to answer that.
Okay.
I'll follow up.
Your next question comes from the line of Joel Locker from FBN Securities.
Just looking at your gross margins a little closer if you say about 2/3 of your deliveries like they'll be scheduled from new communities by the fourth quarter and if they’re throwing off a 20% gross margin versus the current 17% gross margin which has been the run rate for legacy communities would you say that by the fourth quarter your gross margin should be at the 19% level using that weighting [ph] (53:29)? We're just not going to make a projection on what our gross margin may or may not be at a particular point in time.
We've given you about as much guidance as we can give you without making a specific projection.
Well just assuming that pricing was flat obviously if it goes up or down it's going to be different? Yes.
I mean you can make whatever assumptions you want I'm just not going to -- just can't.
Not willing to make an absolute projection on what our margins may or may not be even in a flat market by the end of the year.
Got you.
And then just on the follow-up question on the consolidated February orders.
What were they? I saw that the other -- that the chart on Slide 4 included a consolidate -- or joint ventures? Probably not a whole lot.
We may be able to get that answer before we end the call.
If we do we'll tell you.
What was the number? I can't -- It's just hard to make out on the February total orders? 384.
All right.
Your next question comes from the line of Nishu Sood from Deutsche Bank.
Hey this is Rob Hansen on for Nishu.
You guys touched on traffic a little bit and would you characterize traffic quality as better lately? And what's generally drawing traffic in your communities lately? Has it been just word-of-mouth or promotions mortgage rates what seemed to work to luring buyers into your communities? Well first of all traffic quality is definitely better.
It was definitely a lot slower in November December.
It's seasonally slow in November December but it felt slower than the normal seasonal level there.
I can't say that we're doing anything uniformly across the country in terms of our approach.
We're fairly decentralized in our marketing approach.
So some geographies are advertising on radio some are really focus more on the internet and getting Google hits or Bing hits you name it.
It does vary dramatically.
I can't say there is any one thing that we are doing.
What I would say is there's just been a more positive attitude for consumer sentiment in general.
And I'd like to tell you that the increase in traffic is just at our communities and the increase in sales but as I'm doing my tours I visit our competitors as well we track what our competitors are doing and it definitely feels like there is strength for the overall industry and new homebuilders in general right now.
Okay.
And just you -- you've kind of altered your maturity schedule and you've got some more breathing room especially in the short term here.
What's your preferred method of land spend? Outright land acquisition or are you going to be looking more to the JVs? And now that you have this additional cash that cash is your kind of cash balance goal of $275 million changed at all or does that remain intact? Yes.
Our cash balance goals remain intact.
It just gives us a little more firepower to grow.
Generally our ideal scenario is buying finished lots on a takedown basis whether that's quarterly or monthly or annually that's always the preferred route.
If possible we'd like our deposits to be equivalent of a Starbucks' Latte.
But if we have to do a little more we'd still prefer that.
The second choice would be smaller developed lots there are 50 lots at a time a year and a half worth two years worth that was more available earlier it's a little bit more challenging to get the developed lots as much as we would like but we still find those opportunities.
The third would be smaller undeveloped parcels.
Again small sites that we can get in and out of with relatively good inventory turns.
And we are finding those opportunities around the country as well.
Lastly the joint ventures we’re pretty much trying to focus on those for the larger transactions where the site requires peak capital needs approaching or over $20 million similar to what you saw with the GTIS transaction that we did two months ago on three sites Northern California Southern California and Washington.
All right.
Your next question comes from the line of Ivy Zelman from Zelman &amp; Associates.
Your commentary on the spring or the beginnings of the selling season are obviously welcomed by the investment community.
The questions we get a lot are within the various markets you're competing in.
Is there a difference between the level of improvement in sales with respect to the first-time home buyer or the move-up buyer? And talking a little bit if you could maybe distinguishing between the buyer segments if there's any discernible difference between the segments of your buyers? And any change that you'd see geographically.
A lot of people assume the sand state which are more challenged with foreclosure overhang and higher unemployment levels are those markets lagging underperforming with respect to your improvement in sales or are you seeing a more consistent rebound off of lower bases maybe in those depressed markets where new construction has been arguably starved with no new products for a long time.
So geographic and within the buyer mix side please? Sure.
Just first geographic I'd say the notable slower locations would be all of the markets in Florida and a little slower in the greater Sacramento area and to some extent Minneapolis.
Those are the ones that come to mind.
On the little stronger side I'd say the DC area parts of the San Francisco Bay Area Houston has been solid and surprisingly recently Chicago has been very solid.
I'd say surprisingly because if you technically look they've got still an MLS about a 13- or 14-month overhang month supply of existing homes they've got a reasonably high unemployment rate in the nine-plus percent but sales seem to be quite perky there.
So those are the notable differences from geographies.
On the product type I'd say we really seen reasonable demand at all the different segments.
I can't say that there is a pattern of active adults or first time or first-time move up that's really discernible across the country.
It's a little different in certain markets.
In Dallas the higher end is just a little slower we're doing a little bit better in the middle end.
In Houston the first-time home buying niche has been tougher because there has been particularly on the lower end because there has been qualification challenges with some of those buyers.
But I wouldn't say by niche there’s been any discernible national trend.
Well that's very helpful.
I guess there's a lot of concern with interest rates moving up and I don't know if you've got any commentary from your sales people and throughout the country but is there a particular threshold of the mortgage rate that would concern your -- as long as it’s a steady sort of modest improvement or increase in rates.
Just your views of is 6% the cut off for a 30-year fixed? Or is there resistance? Are people buying? Maybe your activities are improving because rates have moved up so you've gotten [indiscernible] (01:02:16).
So just your perspective on what you think the magnitude of the rate increase can do to you? Or what the higher -- what rate will cut things off? Sure completely unscientific.
I'd say a rapid rise over 6% would be a psychological hurdle but it's very unscientific gut sense.
You can take that for what it's worth.
I'd say in general a slow gentle rising environment is not the worst in the world.
And it could get people to not be sitting on the fences too long.
Ivy I think we would trade above 6% 30-year fixed rates.
If it came because the economy was doing better and we were creating jobs.
I don't believe interest rates are the issue today.
I mean they're still at historical lows in spite of the increase that we've had that moved them up a little bit by any kind of longer-term historical perspective it's just unbelievably affordable.
What's preventing people from buying today isn't interest-rate related it's really jobs the economy consumer confidence to make that purchase.
And if rates go up I think it might be good news if it's related to the economy getting better and jobs being created.
I appreciate that.
If I could sneak in one quick one on your sensitivity which was very helpful in fact your slides overall were great.
So Jeff great job.
Just in terms of the sensitivity you show fixed cost with SG&amp;A.
What would be for community count growth? Is there a rule of thumb for each incremental community? How much of your G&amp;A -- overall selling G&amp;A would have to go up? It's fairly de minimis Ivy because as I think we’ve said in the script you're probably adding certainly a construction superintendent a...
Which is not in SG&amp;A obviously as we mentioned in the script that's in the gross margins but...
There's really not much that gets added as we increase.
There's some incremental but it's not a big number.
Okay.
Great.
And Ivy just to remind you and I know this is slightly different among the homebuilders some homebuilders include commissions both inside and/or outside commissions in selling costs we do not.
It's in our gross margin.
And that's why we say we don't believe our SG&amp;A has to increase very much as we increase our volume.
Great.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Smith from JPM Securities (sic) [JMP Securities] A couple of quick questions on land if you don't mind.
Could you detail a little bit where you've been purchasing the bulk of your land over the last quarter say and into February? Let me see it has really -- I don't track it per se but I'll just give you anecdotally.
We've had let's see some transactions interestingly in Ohio which has been slow in the past that we found more opportunities recently.
They've been at pretty deep discounts from the banks there.
We found very little in Minneapolis recently we'd like to find more but that's been quiet.
We found some transactions in Washington DC.
Found some in Pennsylvania.
Found several developed lot opportunities in Houston.
Some small bulk transactions in Dallas.
Those are the quick ones that come to mind over the last couple of months.
It's fairly spread.
That's helpful.
What in general is limiting to the extent that it is what you're able to go out and buy? Is it a lack of quality lots that you can find? Is it pricing that's above what you're willing to pay? The challenge is our underwriting criteria is that it has to work at today's prices and today's pace.
So when you take that discipline and you figure out what you can pay for the land it's typically a fairly low number.
So to find the opportunities that pencil-out at today's price and get us that average 20% gross margin we have to turnover a lot of rocks.
In your markets in general as you're finding that even it doesn’t pencil-out there are plenty of A and B lots that you would want to take down available for you and you're just not willing to under -- they just don’t pencil-out the way you would want them to? Or are you finding that there's actually a lack of supply out there? No.
I mean it's clearly a finite supply and there are clearly more C and D locations that we have no interest in.
But there are As and Bs and it's a matter of timing either the sellers finally say "Okay I'm tired of waiting." Or price or the pace firms up in that little sub-market such that you could justify the price they are looking for or in some cases interestingly enough construction costs come down just that extra little bit and it makes the hurdle rates work.
Generally speaking the financial institutions are not dumping the properties but it is steadily and regularly being doled out as their internal teams can deal with their problem assets.
So that's kind of a good environment we'd rather it be steady and stable.
Great guys.
I appreciate it.
Before the next question I just want to respond to an earlier one on what was February's consolidated net contracts.
The total net contracts including joint ventures was 384 351 was the consolidated net contracts for whoever asked that question earlier.
And your next question will come from the line of Michael Kim from CRT Capital.
I guess my first question is more for Larry.
Touching on the remaining strategy for the capital structure thinking about some of the call options do you plan on exercising upcoming call options on the second and third lien notes to help assist in bringing down your fixed costs just a touch? And I guess how should we think about bond repurchases going forward as a way to delever for the capital structure? I think obviously we look at all of the flexibility and options that are available to us on the calls and we are obviously in the process of analyzing some of that as some of that's callable in the next couple of months.
So we've not made a final decision one way or the other.
I don't think you should expect us to use much of our capital to go out and repurchase debt.
We do have the flexibility to do that but we don't think it's our highest and best use of capital generally.
There may be an exception here or there for some of the higher-cost debt that's out there.
But in general I think we would rather invest our capital in new land deals that need our hurdle rates of 25% plus unlevered IRR and grow the company rather than take our cash and use it to pay down debt right now.
Understood and I guess as follow-up I appreciate the slide on the potential break-even scenarios.
Just curious the deliveries per community per year how is this computed? Is this based off the average active communities during the year and I guess you described...
If you go to -- let's see which slide it is.
But we have our historical average annual deliveries it's on -- or contracts really it's Slide 5 okay? And the average during kind of normal times from a contract perspective this isn't deliveries but obviously net contracts deliveries would closely mirror is probably 44 45 and the last couple of years we've been at 23.
So one of the scenarios shows it at 23 and I think the highest one that Ara showed maybe got you to 33 still well below our kind of average norm of 44 45.
Okay.
And I guess just in terms of the general trend over the past couple of years how much has density changed for your communities? And I guess with this metric in delivery per community per year do you think you can reach some sort of inflection point in this metric over the next year year and a half? I'm not sure what you mean by density change? You mean in terms of more multifamily or smaller lots is that what you mean? Yes smaller lots just thinking about the calculation of deliveries per community per year I mean it's just -- I think it's more across...
I'm wondering if there's any sensitivity that could shift that metric given the change in density or...
I think it's more function of demand than any product type.
Yes.
I mean generally speaking we do have greater velocity in the greater densities whether they're townhouses or small lot singles.
Generally those have a little greater velocity sales pace.
And we are seeing a little bit more opportunity and activity in that segment of the market than the larger estate lots.
I mean we're -- we tend to be more focused there anyway but there's probably a little bit more of a shift and bias toward that end of the market.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Tom Higbie from Deutsche Bank.
Quickly what are you thinking for community count any kind of targets you could provide for 2011 2012 where should we think about the trajectory of community count going? I think what we said very specifically was that assuming that we can find deals that underwrite based on today's price and today's absorption pace the community count would grow but we've not at this stage given any guidance towards a particular number.
Okay.
And also when you look at traffic levels today versus traffic levels where they were back when you were kind of 44 orders a year how are traffic levels -- how much of the difference in today's pace is traffic and how much of it is closing that traffic? Meaning is there any leverage that you can get out of today's traffic? Do you need to grow traffic significantly or can you actually get some leverage out of just closing current people walking through? I would say in general our traffic levels are lower and it's just reflective of the same issues that are affecting sales.
We need confidence to go up.
We need employment numbers to get better.
And I think that'll attract traffic as well as customers.
Okay.
So just a follow up on that.
Is traffic down as hard as orders are? Or is traffic down something less than that and you're just closing a lower percentage? Traffic is down every bit as much as orders are.
Okay.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan.
Just a follow-up and I don't know if you have this readily available but maybe you can follow up later.
Just wanted to get a sense with some of the recent discussions out there about risk retention by the banks in terms of underwriting anything that's I think less than a 20% down on the conforming loans.
The banks would at least in current discussions have to retain a 5% piece of the mortgage.
And you could see as a result the conforming sub-20% down payment area become a little tighter.
Do you have any sense of I think you said that your conforming loans right now are about 46% do you have a sense of what the average down payment is for those loans? No I don't have it broken out by product type but the proposal you're talking about I saw it for the first time yesterday afternoon.
I think it's still in the proposal phase rather than anything that's been finalized.
And I'd grouped it into the same comments I made during the script that I think there's a lot of things being considered and nothing's been finalized.
And then I think the government's going to be very cautious about implementing something that somehow would limit the availability of mortgages to consumers across the country especially in light of today's economic conditions.
So certainly going to keep a close eye on that.
Don't have the answer.
We'll certainly get back to you Michael.
I think what you mean is conforming conventional because FHA/VA is a big portion of our business today as well.
Yes just the conforming conventional.
Exactly.
But I can certainly get back to you and tell you what our average down payment on conforming conventional is but my guess is it's probably not too far different than what our overall average loan to value is but I'll follow up with it.
Jeff will find out and we'll give you a call.
Great.
At this time I'm showing no further questions in queue.
I would like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Ara Hovnanian for any closing remarks.
Great.
Well thank you very much.
I know all of you are as curious as we are about the spring selling season.
It feels good thus far but we’ll look forward to give you more specific data on our next call.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you for your participating and have a nice day.
All parties may now disconnect.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for the Hovnanian Enterprises Fiscal 2011 Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
An archive of the webcast will be available after the completion of the call and will run for 12 months.
This conference is being recorded for rebroadcast and all participants are currently in a listen-only mode.
[Operator Instructions] The company will also be webcasting a slide presentation along with the opening comments from management.
The slides are available on the Investor page of the company's website at www.khov.com.
Those listeners who would like to follow along should log on to the website at this time.
Before we begin I would like to read the forward-looking statements.
All statements made during this conference call that are not historical facts should be considered as forward-looking statements.
Such statements involve known and unknown risks uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results performance or achievements of the company to be materially different from any future results performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements.
Such risks uncertainties and other factors include but are not limited to: first change in general and local economics and industry and business conditions and impact of the sustained homebuilding downturn; second adverse weather and other environment conditions and natural disasters; third change in market conditions and seasonality of the company's business; fourth change in home price and sales activity in the markets where the company builds homes; fifth government regulation including the regulations concerning development of land the homebuilding sales and customer financing processes tax laws and environment; sixth fluctuations in interest rates and availability of mortgage financing; seventh shortage and price fluctuations of raw material and labor; eighth availability and cost of distraught land and improved lots; ninth levels of competition; 10th availability of financing to the company; 11th utility shortage and outage of rate fluctuation; 12th levels of indebtedness and restrictions of the company's operations and activities imposed by agreements governing the company's outstanding indebtedness; 13th the company's source of liquidity; 14th change in credit ratings; 15th availability of the net operating loss carryforwards; 16th operations through joint ventures with third parties; 17th product liability litigation and warranty claims; 18th successful identification and integration of acquisitions; 19th significant influence of the company's controlling stockholders; 20 geopolitical risks terrorist acts and other acts of war; and 21 other factors described in detail in the company's annual report on Form 10-K/A for the year ended October 31 2010 and the company's quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended January 31 2011 and April 30 2011 respectively.
Except as otherwise required by applicable securities laws we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events changing circumstances or any other events.
I would like to turn this conference call over to Ara Hovnanian Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of Hovnanian Enterprises.
Ara please go ahead.
Good morning and thanks for participating in today's call to review the results of our 6 months and second quarter ended April of '11.
Joining me today from the company are Larry Sorsby Executive Vice President and CFO; Brad O'Connor Vice President Chief Accounting Officer and Corporate Controller; David Valiaveedan Vice President of Finance and Treasurer; and Jeff O'Keefe Vice President of Investor Relations.
On Slide 3 you can see a brief summary of our second quarter results.
During January and February we experienced a typical seasonal increase in sales and we're hopeful that the increases would continue in the beginning of the spring selling season of March and April but they did not.
The early part of the spring selling season was disappointing.
However we saw a significant turnaround in sales in May both on a sequential and year-over-year basis.
Slide 4 shows our monthly net contracts.
Fiscal 2010 months are in yellow.
You can see the tremendous sales momentum last year building to a peak in April of 2010 as the homebuyer tax credit was about to expire.
As we all know sales fell off a cliff the next month in May of 2010.
This year you notice in red sales started a typical seasonal upturn in January but then held steady at about 390 contracts a month for 3 straight months.
Obviously this paled compared to last year's tax credit enhanced sales environment.
However sales finally gained momentum in May of 2011 with 501 net contracts a 28% sequential and year-over-year increase almost matching the peak month during last year's tax credit.
This was helped a bit by our increased community count ironically despite inactivity occurred the exact month as the sales drought last year.
There was not any special national promotion during the month of May with pricing and concessions similar to the recent previous months.
Anecdotally many of our competitive studies in each of our markets generally indicate May was stronger for other builders as well.
Slide 5 shows similar monthly contract data but broken down to contracts per community.
Our net contracts per community were consistent throughout each month of the second quarter at 1.9 net contracts per community per month.
Like absolute sales this trend changed in May and net contracts jumped to 2.4 per month an increase of 26% sequentially and 20% year-over-year.
This is the highest monthly sales pace since April of 2010 the month that the federal tax homebuyers tax credit expired.
Given the negative media regarding housing and the economy we were pleasantly surprised by the sales in May.
Needless to say we are hopeful that the momentum will continue but we have not built our internal business plans based on the May sales pace.
The impact of last year's homebuyers tax credit caused contract comparisons for the first half of 2011 to be lower than the first 6 months of 2010.
Because the tax credit expired at the end of April of 2010 and sales dropped subsequently we expect the comparisons for the second half of this year to be easier.
Slide 6 gives even more granularity as we show our weekly sales comparisons over the 2 years.
We normally don't discuss weekly sales given the greater volatility but we made an exception this quarter because it vividly shows the momentum building last year through April and the abrupt drop in sales the very next month.
Again given the fact that net contracts fell off a cliff in May of 2010 and remained at very low levels through July we anticipate reporting improved results year-over-year for the third quarter of 2011 and we are hopeful that that trend will continue into the fourth quarter as well.
Slide 7 shows contracts per community on annual basis.
While the first half of 2011 was behind 2010's pace we expect the second half of the year to show year-over-year improvements.
We'll likely end up at a smaller annual sales per community as last year.
Although May showed significant improvement we are still off 50% compared to our historic normalized pace of about 45 contracts per community per year.
As I said earlier we were pleasantly surprised by May sales given much of the negative news about the economy and housing.
There were a couple of housing indicators however that showed some positive trends.
First affordability has risen to the highest levels in over 36 years since this index has been published as you can see on Slide 8.
This record high affordability has obviously been driven by the combination of reduced home prices and extremely low mortgage rates.
Second on Slide 9 you see the 90-day mortgage delinquency rate has fallen sequentially in each of the last 5 quarters.
Although it's still very high at 8.1% it has fallen from almost 9.7% in the fourth quarter of 2009.
This would indicate that we are likely near the crest of foreclosures since foreclosure rates eventually trend similar to seriously delinquent home mortgage rates.
One of the few positive articles was in this weekend's Wall Street Journal.
Among many data points it mentioned a recent Zelman Associates survey of renters indicating 67% planned to buy a home in the next 5 years.
Another interesting survey conducted by Fannie Mae who finances both home purchasers and apartments indicated 87% of the people surveyed would still prefer to own than rent.
Despite these small positive indicators our internal business plan assumes market conditions do not improve until 2013 and even then we only assume a modest sales pace improvement and no home price improvements.
Since we underwrite new land purchases based on today's home prices as long as the housing market remains relatively stable we can achieve higher gross margins without relying on improved market conditions.
Additionally again assuming stable market conditions as we continue to grow our community count both revenues and absolute levels of gross margin dollars should increase which puts us on the path to returning to profitability.
Seeing household formations return to normalized levels is a key component to improvements in demand for homes.
We do not expect to see household formations to meaningfully increase until more jobs are created and consumer confidence improves.
Absent in increase in sales pace we can still achieve improved operating efficiencies and revenue growth by increasing our community count.
We continue to make progress in growing our community count as seen on Slide 10 reversing the downward trends of '08 and '09.
Our community count including joint ventures was 206 this quarter a year-over-year increase of 10% and a sequential increase of 5 communities.
Our mix of newly identified active selling communities to total communities continues to rise.
Keep in mind that this chart shows communities open for sale.
As many of these our new deliveries lag behind sales.
We expect to see the delivery impact in the third and particularly the fourth quarter.
While we have not provided guidance on how many communities we expect to have opened at the end of the year as long as we continue to find new land that makes economic sense we expect our community count to continue to grow in the second half of fiscal 2011.
Slide 11 shows the progress we have made in controlling new land parcels to fill this pipeline.
Since January of '09 we have purchased or optioned 15 400 lots.
The land that we purchased or optioned net or exceeded our investment threshold of a 25% IRR based on the then current sales price and no change in sales pace for the next 2 years.
We stepped up our land acquisitions and options considerably in fiscal 2010.
It's obvious today that the sales pace and price has deteriorated for many of the land parcels that we've underwrote during the first half of 2010 while the federal homebuyers tax credit was in place.
Thus the IRRs we are achieving today on those communities are less than they were when we originally contracted or optioned the land.
However the overwhelming majority of these new communities that we purchased are still generating profits and absorbing overheads.
Further most were smaller communities which will liquidate about 2 years from the start of deliveries quickly turning the assets back into cash for reinvestment or repaying debt as it comes due.
Without a doubt these purchases were better than sitting on our cash earning a few basis points on treasuries even with the slightly deteriorated performance since acquisition.
Of the 161 new communities purchased since January of '09 only 2 or about 1% have had performance deteriorate enough to warrant a write down.
Staying true to our underwriting criteria since the expiration of the tax credit and the subsequent slowing of sales pace we walked away from 57 optioned properties or approximately 4 400 lots.
As you can see on the bottom of the right-hand side of the slide we optioned 1 650 new lots in the second quarter and bought about 250 new lots that were not previously optioned or about 1 900 total additions.
We then walked away from about 1 700 lots.
The net result for the quarter was that our total lots purchased or controlled since January of '09 increased by about 200 lots which happens to be the same net change we reported for the first quarter as you can see on the upper right-hand portion of the slide.
About 700 or 20% of the 3 400 options we walked away from during the first half of 2011 were options that were signed in the first 3 quarters of fiscal 2010 when the sales pace was heavily influenced by the homebuyers tax credit.
We are constantly reviewing our option contracts and not moving forward with options that don't make economic sense based on today's sales prices and today's sales paces.
The other 80% of the communities simply did not pass our scrutiny during our due diligence process sufficient to yield our 25% IRR during the current selling environment.
In the second quarter we purchased about 1 170 newly identified lots in 84 communities.
In addition we purchased about 270 lots from legacy options.
In total we spent approximately $125 million of cash in the quarter to purchase 1 440 lots and to develop land across the company.
Cash flow from operations after interest was positive at about $37 million prior to the investment in new land and land development.
We continue to seek opportunities in all of our markets and we've had success in finding new deals that make sense in most of our markets.
At the end of the second quarter 66% of our communities that were opened for sale were newly identified communities that we controlled after January of '09.
However only 39% of our consolidated second quarter deliveries were from newly identified land.
Since many of these newly identified communities were recently opened they will not begin to deliver homes until the second half of 2011 and beyond.
As long as we see no changes in the market conditions this mixed shift should cause our gross margins to improve in the second half of the year.
The margins will likely be weighted toward our fourth quarter which is consistent with the statements we made in our past 2 quarterly calls.
Our gross margins were weak during the second quarter due to a mix of lower margin home deliveries this quarter and some softness in home prices.
Because the spring selling season was not as good as we had hoped it was necessary to use concessions on a community-specific basis.
Many of these concessions occurred in Maryland and in the Sacramento Valley in Northern California.
These lower prices were in enough communities that it adversely affected our gross margin for the second quarter.
The sequential and year-over-year declines in our gross margin can be seen on the right-hand side of Slide 12.
We saw our gross margins decline from 16.9% during our 2011 first quarter to 14.8% in the second quarter of this year.
This decline disrupted our 8-quarter trend of improving year-over-year gross margins.
During the second quarter of 2011 there were $22.2 million of impairment reversals compared to $42.8 million of impairment reversals in the second quarter of 2010.
As we have said in the past gross margins have the potential to fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter which is evident from the results we posted in our second quarter.
In addition to the previously mentioned concessions some of this downward pressure was related to the mix of homes that we delivered.
Some of it had to do with the low margin legacy deliveries.
Additionally the increased mix of deliveries from Texas also dampens our gross margin somewhat.
Since we underwrite to an IRR target not a gross margin target in a market like Houston where we optioned finished lots on a quarterly takedown basis we can achieve our IRR target with lower gross margins.
The 16% gross margin can yield our 25% IRR target because of the inventory turns and because of the lower SG&amp;A costs in Houston.
On the right side of Slide 13 the bars show the absolute dollar amount of total SG&amp;A is lower when compared to both the second quarter of last year and the first quarter of 2011.
As a matter fact you have to go back to the first quarter of '02 to find a quarter where total SG&amp;A was as low as what we reported for this recent quarter.
When you look at total SG&amp;A as a percentage of total revenues as we have shown underneath the bars on the right-hand side of Slide 13 the 20.3% for the second quarter of fiscal '11 while lower than it was during the first quarter is still much higher than our historical norm.
These high percentages occurred despite the reductions in our staffing levels shown on the left-hand side of this chart.
However assuming we achieve the higher deliveries we are anticipating our SG&amp;A ratios should improve over the next 2 quarters.
It's important for you to understand the leverage we can get from our existing SG&amp;A as we grow our community count.
As we have said in the past in spite of our rightsizing efforts we still have some excess capacity at our divisional and regional and corporate offices.
As we open new communities incremental spending related to our community count will come almost exclusively at a community level.
There we typically need to add a construction supervisor and one sales associate per community.
Over time the combination of further improvements in gross margin trending back to normalized gross margins in the 20% range coupled with SG&amp;A and interest leverage as we grow our community count and increase revenues will get us to the point where our homebuilding operations are once again profitable.
We still have more work to do as we seek new land parcels to invest in that will bring us the types of returns that we need to continue down the path to profitability.
Fortunately deal flow remains steady as we continue to approve land acquisitions on a regular basis.
Our current backlog gives us some visibility over the next 6 months.
As long as current prices and current sales pace continues on Slide 14 you see that we anticipate wholly-owned deliveries between 950 and 1 050 homes in the third quarter and a range of 1 150 homes and 1 250 homes in the fourth quarter.
This compares to 899 deliveries in the second quarter.
Our expectations are for home sales revenues between $265 million and $295 million in the third quarter and between $320 million and $350 million in the fourth quarter both of which are significantly above home sales revenues we achieved in the second quarter of 2011.
Further again assuming stable housing conditions we expect a modest improvement in gross margin in the third quarter and a 200 basis point improvement in the fourth quarter.
Slide 15 shows the quarterly revenues for fiscal 2010 in yellow and actual revenues for the first half of 2011 in red.
What is noticeable when you look at the guidance range for the next 2 quarters which is shown in blue the trend should get us to a critical milestone in revenue growth by the fourth quarter finally stopping the shrinking revenues comparisons that have dogged us for years as this housing market has turned down.
Delivery increases like these should make a significant difference on our cash flows.
The increases in joint venture deliveries are expected to be more dramatic on a percentage basis in both the third and fourth quarter.
The combined impact of delivery and gross margin improvement should yield a reduction in our pretax loss in the third quarter and an even more substantial reduction in our loss in the fourth quarter.
While we are not yet projecting break-even levels for profit or positive cash flow after land purchases we believe we will soon clearly demonstrate that we are on the right path.
Although we are providing guidance for the third and fourth quarters of fiscal '11 we are not planning to provide quarterly guidance in the future until the markets are a little more stable.
We are doing this this quarter to illustrate the impact of our investment in new communities and the positive impact it will have on our deliveries revenues gross margin and cash flow in the upcoming quarters.
The above guidance assumes flat home prices steady home absorption paces and no additional impairments.
We believe the large impairments are behind us.
As you know impairments don't impact cash flow.
I'll now turn it over to Larry who will discuss our inventory liquidity and mortgage operations as well as a few other topics.
Thanks Ara.
Let me start with discussion of our current inventory from a couple of different perspectives.
Turning to Slide 16 you'll see that our owned and optioned land position broken out by our publicly reported segments.
Based on trailing 12-month deliveries we own 4.4 years worth of land.
However if you exclude the 7 489 mothballed lots we only own 2.7 years worth of land.
Our owned lot position increased sequentially in the second quarter while the optioned lot position decreased.
We purchased approximately 1 440 lots during the second quarter which was offset by 899 deliveries.
On the option side of the equation we walked away from 1 700 options and signed new option contracts for an additional 1 650 lots during the quarter.
At the end of the second quarter 64% of our optioned lots are newly identified lots and 23% of our optioned lots were newly identified lots.
When you combine our optioned and owned land together 38% of the total lots that we control today are newly identified lots.
On Slide 17 we show a breakdown of the 18 878 lots we owned at the end of the second quarter.
Approximately 37% of these were 80% or more finished 14% had 30% to 80% of the improvements already in place and the remaining 49% have less than 30% of the improvement dollars spent.
While our primary focus is on purchasing improved lots it's getting more difficult in certain markets to find finished lots for sale at a reasonable price.
Where land development is required we typically are able to break development down into many smaller phases as small as 15 to 20 lots minimizing our capital outlay and returning the expenditures into cash relatively quickly.
About 30% of the remaining newly identified lots we've purchased or contracted to purchase are lots where it makes economic sense to do some level of land development and we continue to complete land development on sections of our legacy land as well.
Now I'll turn to land-related charges which can be seen on Slide 18.
We booked $16.3 million of land impairments in 6 communities during the second quarter and 84% of those charges were in just 3 communities.
These charges were concentrated in 2 legacy communities located in New Jersey and one newly identified community in Northern California.
To date including $2.2 million of charges in the second quarter we have taken $3.3 million of impairments on 2 newly identified communities both of which are located in Northern California.
So far we've taken impairments on just 2 of the 161 newly owned communities we've purchased since January 31 2009.
During the second quarter our walkaway charges were $600 000 which were spread across 23 communities throughout our markets.
In total we booked $16.9 million of land-related impairments and walkaway charges in the second quarter of fiscal 2011.
81% of the charges were related to just 3 communities.
Our investment and land option deposit was $27.6 million at April 2011 with $25 million in cash deposits and the other $2.6 million of deposits being held by letters of credit.
Additionally we have another $29.5 million invested in predevelopment expenses.
Turning to Slide 19 we show that we have 7 489 lots within 52 communities that were mothballed as of April 30 2011.
And on this slide we break those lots out by geographical segment.
During the second quarter one community in New Jersey that was previously mothballed has now been opened and is now an active selling community.
In total we have unmothballed approximately 2 800 lots in 51 communities since January 31 2009.
The book value at the end of the second quarter for these remaining mothballed communities was $161 million net of an impairment balance of $545 million.
We are carrying these mothballed lots at 23% of their original value.
Looking at all of our consolidated communities in the aggregate including mothballed communities we have an inventory book value of $965 million net of $854 million of impairments which were recorded on 148 of our communities.
Of the properties that have been impaired we are carrying them at 26% of their pre-impaired value.
Turning now to Slide 20 on a sequential basis the number of started unsold homes excluding models and unconsolidated joint ventures increased slightly.
We ended the second quarter with 822 started unsold homes.
This translates to 4.3 started unsold homes per active selling community which is lower than our long-term average of 4.9 unsold homes per community.
Another area of discussion for the quarter is related to our current and deferred tax asset valuation allowance.
At the end of the second quarter the valuation allowance in the aggregate was $841 million.
We view this as a very significant asset not currently reflected on our balance sheet and have taken steps to protect it.
Despite the equity transactions we completed earlier this year we still have the capacity to issue a significant amount of new common shares per cash without triggering a change in control which would limit our ability to use this valuable asset.
Today we could issue more than 100 million additional shares for cash and as of October 2011 that increases to more than 125 million shares without limiting our ability to utilize our NOLs.
We expect to be able to reverse this allowance after we generate consecutive years of solid profitability and can look forward and continue to project solid profitability.
When the reversal does occur we expect the remaining allowance will be added back to our shareholders' equity and will further strengthen our balance sheet.
We ended the second quarter with a total shareholders' deficit of $350 million.
If you add back the total valuation allowance as we've done on Slide 21 our total shareholders' equity would be $491 million.
Let me reiterate that the tax asset valuation allowance is for GAAP purposes only.
For tax purposes our tax assets may be carried forward for 20 years and we expect to utilize those tax loss carryforwards as we generate profits in the future.
For the first $1.8 billion of pretax profits we generate we will not have to pay federal income taxes.
Now let me update you briefly on the mortgage markets and our mortgage finance operation.
Despite chatter in the markets about the lack of mortgage availability mortgages are available today for creditworthy customers.
However lenders are asking for more evidence that borrowers are creditworthy so consumers have to provide much more loan approval documentation.
Although loan approval standards have not materially changed during the past 6 to 9 months it is true that the filing for loan applications today is much thicker than it has been.
And it is true that mortgage underwriters are typically unwilling to make any exception to their underwriting guidelines even when consumers have mitigating or compensating factors.
While mortgage underwriting standards today on paper adversely identical to the standards that were in place prior to the addend of subprime and Alt-A mortgages the marginally qualified applicant who has compensating factors who would have been approved years ago is finding it virtually impossible to get a loan today.
Turning to Slide 22 you can see here that credit quality of our mortgage customers continues to be strong with an average FICO score of 736.
During the second quarter our mortgage company captured 76% of our noncash home-buying customers.
Turning to Slide 23.
Here we show a breakout of all the various loan types originated by our mortgage operations for the second quarter of fiscal 2011 compared to all of fiscal 2010.
50.5% of our originations were FHA/VA during the second quarter of fiscal '11 similar to the 49.3% we saw during all of fiscal 2010.
Let me Update you quickly about what's happening with our loan repurchase request.
We continue to believe that the vast majority of repurchase requests that we've received are unjustified.
On Slide 24 you'll see our payments from fiscal 2008 through to first half of fiscal 2011.
So far in the first 6 months of 2011 our repayments were $1 million.
Additionally during the second quarter we received 10 repurchase inquiries which was less than last year's quarterly average of about 25 inquiries.
It is our policy to estimate and reserve for potential losses when we sell loans to investors.
All of the above losses had been actually reserved for in previous periods.
At the end of the second quarter our reserve for loan repurchases and make whole request was $5.6 million which we believe is adequate for our exposure.
To date repurchases have not been a significant problem but we will continue to monitor this issue closely.
Our cancellation rates continue to remain at normal levels.
Our cancellation rate for the second quarter was 20% lower than the 22% we've reported for this year's first quarter but it's slightly higher than the 17% cancellation rate that we reported for last year's second quarter when the tax credit was in place.
Turning to Slide 25.
It shows a debt maturity schedule or our debt maturity schedule for the end of our second quarter.
Pro forma for approximately $12 million of higher coupon second and third lien notes that we have redeemed early in the third quarter as well as the tack on of approximately $12 million to our 2016 first lien notes that we issued early in the third quarter as well.
What you see very quickly is that we have only $70 million of debt coming due before 2015.
In spite of the extended debt maturities clearly having adequate liquidity for growth is a concern of many investors.
We have run endless financial models using numerous scenarios and assumptions.
We have assumed slower and faster land acquisition paces smaller and larger land acquisitions higher and lower number of joint ventures sales pace that's starting recovery in 2013 and no sales pace recovery during the period we've modeled.
You name it.
We've modeled it.
Under all of our reasonable scenarios we believe we have adequate cash flow to continue to grow our way out of the recession return to profitability meet our maturities in 2015 and position our balance sheet for refinancing options in 2016.
In our primary modeling scenarios we assume no home sales price improvement and we assume no improved sales pace until 2013.
At which time we very gradually start to migrate our sales pace assumptions back towards normalized levels.
We assume we will invest approximately $100 million in land and land development each quarter through the end of fiscal 2012.
This expenditure is similar in nature to the quarterly land and land development payments we've been making during the past year.
However we assume fewer of our future acquisitions of new communities will be already developed.
Further as deliveries start to increase from our community count growth we expect cash flow before land spend will be $450 million in the aggregate through the end of fiscal 2012.
This $450 million of cash flow from operations after interest payments will allow us to maintain cash levels around our $275 million target while still investing about $100 million in land and land development every single quarter.
This gives us some cash cushion in our financial models.
On Slide 26 you see our sequential 18% increase in the dollar amount of our contract backlog.
Our backlog at the end of April and our May sales levels gives us confidence that we will see increased delivery levels in future quarters which we expect will generate the cash flow I've just described above.
We recognize that some analysts are projecting a few percent further decline in home prices.
The majority of the home price declines this past year have been associated with distressed home sales.
The declines have been much less significant on nondistressed home sales including new home sales.
While further price reductions would clearly impact profit it will have less of an impact on our cash flows.
We believe purchasing new properties today is still the correct strategy even if home prices deteriorate a few more percent.
Our models show the ability to do all of the above without raising additional equity or considering debt for equity swaps.
While our recent quarterly cash flows are making significant land or after making significant land purchases may cause concern for some we remain confident that the investments we have made in land acquisitions over the last 2 years will begin to reap benefits in cash flow in the coming periods.
In general we are harvesting cash from slowly turning legacy assets and investing that cash into quicker turning newly identified land parcels where we can make a good return and harvest cash even faster in the future.
This allows us to do more with the capital we have.
In normal times we were turning our assets over 2x per year.
Over the last few years as the market slowed and we were burdened with our legacy assets our asset turnover rate dropped to 1x per year.
Given that our typical land acquisition today has only about a 2-year delivery stand and we are making greater use of finished lot takedowns we expect to migrate to a more normalized inventory turn of 2x in the future.
We have gotten a lot of questions recently about different steps we can take to repair our capital structure particularly with respect to our appetite to swap debt for equity.
While swaps would reduce our interest cost it would not provide us with much increased liquidity in the near term.
If we were going to issue additional equity we would prefer to do it in a scenario that would generate cash by selling stock at higher prices once we are profitable and trading at a multiple of earnings.
An alternative such as the debt-for-equity swap could be an option in the future but that is not a path we are likely to head down in the near term.
Our cash position can be seen on Slide 27.
At the end of April after spending approximately $125 million of cash to purchase 1 440 lots and on overall new land development across the company as well as $41 million on interest payments we ended the quarter with $415 million of cash.
Keep in mind that our second and fourth quarters bear the brunt of our interest payments.
This cash position does include $67.1 million of homebuilding restricted cash used to collateralize letters of credit.
The amount of homebuilding cash that is restricted has been steadily declining from about $135 million at the end of fiscal 2009 to the current level of $67.1 million.
At the very end of the second quarter we announced that we had expanded the December 2010 joint venture with GTIS to include 5 additional communities that we have recently acquired.
At the closing of this joint venture we sold the 5 communities to the joint venture.
About $39 million in cash was returned to us and we then invested $11 million back into the joint venture.
Looking forward our strategy on joint ventures has not changed.
We still intend to utilize joint ventures for larger land transactions.
We have stated that we will manage our cash position to a target of $275 million.
This target may fluctuate on a quarterly basis but should not fall below $200 million at any quarter end.
Our intention is to become fully invested in land as quickly as we can.
It is possible that we could reach this target by the end of fiscal 2011 but it would require a sufficient number of land deals that make economic sense at today's slow sales pace and low sales price in order for us to be fully invested.
I realize that saying this may cause some unease with our investors.
Some people believe that we should not be investing in the land but should just sit on the cash we have.
We are comfortable targeting this level of cash because the bulk of our investments in wholly owned inventory will be in community with shorter lives regenerating into cash in the near term.
Investments in land are needed to grow our community count and in turn our top line which will eventually drive greater operating efficiencies and return us to profitability.
We understand the market's concern with liquidity.
It is something we are monitoring closely.
However our internal financial models give us the confidence that we have sufficient capital to grow our way back to profitability even in a flat nonrecovering market.
While we cannot project when the housing market will recover we do feel that our performance is at an inflection point.
Sales dropped precipitously in last year's third and fourth quarters after the expiration of the tax credit.
Our first 2 quarters of deliveries this year showed the effect of that.
However net contract comparison to last year should be positive in the third and fourth quarter given the current sales pace and growth in community count.
Our gross margins should improve as our mix from newer communities improves.
While this is not a direct proxy for cash flow we do see our cash flow improving.
Given that our large bond maturities are in 2016 we think that gives us sufficient time to improve our performance and our balance sheet giving us further options on the capital front.
That concludes our prepared remarks and now we are glad to open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of David Goldberg from UBS.
My first question I wanted talk about the improvement in the sales pace sequentially in May.
And when I'm trying to get an idea of it -- I know you mentioned Ara that you felt like most of your peers have been reporting similar improvements.
The sales pace is about 2.4 2.5 sales per month seem a little bit higher than what we've been hearing from a lot of other builders.
And I'm wondering if you can talk about maybe it seems that that's kind of the pace you've been seeing in most of your markets.
Is that a geographic thing? I know you said incentives didn't really change.
Is there something to that number that we should be kind of aware of? Or is it just kind of what you've been hearing? Okay.
First I didn't indicate that our peers reported the sales.
What I did say was that we do look at our competition in each of our geographies.
We look at it regularly community by community and what we've noticed is that in many of our markets competitors' sales paces have picked up in the recent 4 weeks compared to the prior few months.
I can't put my finger David on an exact number.
We don't really get that level of granularity but I definitely noticed as we reviewed communities and all the local competitors for those communities both public and private although probably a little more on the public side actually probably quite a bit more on the public side we definitely noticed a pickup in the last 4 weeks.
Got it.
And then just my follow-up question Larry in your commentary you talked about debt-for-equity swaps and debt for equity.
You didn't feel that was really something you are going to address in the near term.
And I'm just wondering about the decision-making process and what would change that would make you reconsider potentially a change in the capital structure of that nature.
Is it just a deterioration in the sales pace from where we are? Or are prices going down more? Kind of what's going on in the decision-making process? And given you that you've modeled this out quite a bit it sounds like it doesn't seem like you see a scenario where there's a real cash problem under this scenario as you run.
What would change the decision-making process? I think what would change the decision-making process is if it became apparent through our financial modeling that we weren't going to be able to get through 2015 with adequate liquidity and return to profitability.
At the point in time that it looks like that just wasn't going to happen we would not rule out any option including debt-for-equity swaps.
But we just don't think that's something in the near term that's likely to occur and it would take some deterioration in the marketplace for that to occur.
To just to make sure I understand what you're modeling you're including downside scenarios too? I mean there's a certain sense of a sales load if prices went down a certain -- maybe not catastrophic scenarios but the downside scenarios.
I mean obviously we model all kinds of different scenarios including downside.
But when I say something has to deteriorate the downside would have to become a significant reality.
What we really believe is going to happen is the scenario which we kind of stay for the foreseeable future at these lousy home prices and slow home paces that are 50% of the normal historical sales basis that we've experienced.
And under a no-improvement scenario we believe that we have adequate liquidity to get through 2015 maturities.
Yes.
We're probably sensitive to sales pace than sales price.
Sales price will affect our margins quite a bit but won't have as significant a percentage increase on cash flow which is what we're very focused on.
Got it.
And your next question comes from the line of Nishu Sood from Deutsche Bank.
This is Rob Hansen on for Nishu.
In regards to your cash flow guidance you mentioned higher cash flow later this year.
And is this just going to be as a result of seasonality? Or are you going to slow land development in the short term? And in terms of the overall $450 million of cash flow guidance just wanted to see if you can give a little more details on that and how much cash you have earmarked for JV deals and whatnot as well.
Our guidance of expecting better cash flow is really more related to an increased deliveries and revenues.
That will be as we've shown on the slide definitely better than the second quarter.
It will be definitely better in the third quarter than the second quarter and much better in the fourth quarter and that's really the primary driver of the additional cash flow.
And in terms of spend I think we said you can assume roughly the same $100 million of spend on land and land development quarterly for the next 6 quarters or so.
And we've not provided any guidance on how much we may or may not spend on joint ventures.
But we have said that joint ventures remain a part of our strategy for larger parcels but we've not quantified that.
Okay.
And then in terms of your May results a lot of times the first-time buyers tends to be less seasonal than the move-up buyers.
So were the gains in May from continued improvement in move-up buyers or did you start to see some of the first-time buyers come back to the market? As you know we really focus on a pretty broad array not any specific segment.
I'd say in general the trends we've been experiencing with a little more strength in the move-up market versus the first-time market have kind of continued.
I haven't really seen a significant change in that regard.
And your next question comes from the line of Ivy Zelman from Zelman &amp; Associates.
I wanted to ask you with respect to your JVs I noticed that during the quarter you did report a loss in the joint venture which is the greatest loss since really '08 in the fourth quarter.
Just curious what's going on there.
Is there some other cost involved there? Or are the communities in the JV not performing as well? And then I have a separate question.
Sure.
It's mostly related to the brand new startup of the joint ventures that we've just announced very recently.
We're starting up many communities so we've got the expenses associated with them.
But the deliveries will be forthcoming in the near future.
Yes.
Right.
And then secondly as it relates to your G&amp;A we noticed a nice drop in corporate G&amp;A expense $12 million from $15 million in 1Q and $14 million a year ago.
Is this a sustainable decline or were there any one-time benefits? And what should we use as a good run rate? No I don't think there was anything unusual or a one-time occurrence this quarter.
Okay easy question today.
And then lastly as you look to your...
We'll call you out more often for these.
If you look at your new communities -- and I think one of the interesting things the companies and the industry are early challenged by is the apple-and-oranges comparisons on looking at sales per community relative to other builders.
And I think that one of the challenges is size of communities.
So maybe you can talk a little bit about the size of new communities versus legacy communities and are they different and how you're going about strategically phasing out new openings? Yes.
I'd say generally a lot of our -- the majority of our new land acquisitions are about 50 lots.
That depending on the geography for a typical community is only a 2-year absorption pace.
Historically I'd say our community size was double to quadruple that amount.
So it's really dropped in size.
I can't say it was actually a conscious decision.
It just seems like the numbers work far better on the smaller communities since we don't forecast price increases when we do absorptions.
The larger communities present some pretty tough IRR hurdles if you don't assume any price depreciation.
So we're just finding that harder to pencil.
But in retrospect that really is a helpful thing.
I think it's smarter to keep our investments short liquidate them faster turn our inventory a little more and it gives us the ability to do just a bit more with the cash.
I'll also say although I haven't tracked the exact number the usage of quarterly finished lot takedowns versus bulk purchases has probably increased for our company a bit over the last few years.
A couple of additional points Ivy is one is on Slide 11 where we show reloading our land position.
You can actually calculate the average size of the community of it 294 communities since January '09 for a total of 15 400 lots.
So that comes up roughly to arrows kind of 50-ish kind of number.
I'm a little confused by saying it's an apple and orange on a per sales per community.
The way we count communities you have to have 10 or more homes left to be sold.
So we don't have kind of the last few homes included in our community count even though we may have some because it may be slower or faster for one reason or the other.
But regardless of whether you buy a community that's 100 lots or 150 lots or only 50 lots I think sales per community is still a valid apples-to-apples measure.
No I agree.
I was confusing 2 different questions.
So the legacy size versus new community size shouldn't have any impacts on the sales per neighborhood.
It would prove more in the context of lots of builders are calculating their sales per neighborhood on a different basis.
And when we think of you in that right now doing 2.4 and another builder tells us he's doing 1.6 sometimes it's a measure that could be a little bit distorted.
I'm wondering how you calculate it sort of separately you from the legacy versus...
No.
That is a good point but essentially our calculation is per product line.
So if in a given geography even in a master plan we have 2 model complexes with 2 different sized lots and 2 different products.
We'd count that as 2 communities.
Some might count that as one and that might yield a difference.
I'm really not sure of how the other builders count it.
But I agree with you probably is different from builder to builder.
Building on Larry's point by the way about our average community size and I'm glad that math sided out to what I had just say but you'll also note if you did the same calculation Larry went through on our joint ventures they're a little larger on average.
I think it comes out to be about 110 lots more than double the size of our wholly owned purchases and that's kind of consistent with the strategy we mentioned.
We're really focused more on the joint ventures for our larger communities in particular in the more expensive areas that are more capital intensive like Northern or Southern California like Washington D.C.
or like New Jersey or Eastern Pennsylvania.
And your next question comes from the line of Susan Berliner from JPMorgan.
Larry I was wondering if you could help us a little bit more with the gross margin.
I guess I know what you guys said about this quarter.
I was wondering if you could talk at all about what you saw in May.
And I guess what kind of your expectation for maintaining that kind of $200 million of number of cash on hand? And I'm assuming that's unrestricted cash? Although I'd love a confirmation on that.
If you could just kind of walk us through with the higher land spend and the lower gross margin how we should be thinking about it.
The first thing I'd say is that we are projecting with again nothing but a change in mix of deliveries based on what our backlog is no improvement in the market that gross margin will modestly improve in our third quarter and improve by 200 basis points in our fourth quarter this year.
So that's again no change in current market conditions.
That's what we are forecasting to occur and what our earlier comments were.
And again there's just no change from what we were doing that led to the lower margins in the April quarter.
With respect to the May month just as Ara had said in his prepared remarks there was no national promotion.
There was no increase in concessions or incentives of any note in May that led to the better sales.
So that's what we're expecting in terms of margins over the next couple of quarters.
And if you can ask the second part of your question again I'll try to answer it.
Yes.
I guess just in terms of modeling out cash flow going forward I know you're not giving specific guidance for '12 and what you gave for the second half of '11 was helpful.
But I guess assuming a lower gross margin and a higher land spend -- I guess I'm trying to piece in -- I don't know if you guys have much...
I mean the leverage are going to be what gets you to the $450 million aggregate cash flow after interest preland.
And I don't know that I can give you any more guidance than that.
But deliveries higher deliveries lead to efficiency in G&amp;A.
And obviously you're harvesting some of the cash you've already invested if you have higher deliveries and our fixed costs aren't going to change much.
So it comes back to us in cash since you have higher deliveries.
Yes.
If you go back to Slide 15 and you focus on the 2011 actual quarterly revenues and kind of look at the trend with the guidance we've given for our third quarter and obviously we're in the middle of our third quarter right now and the fourth quarter you could see is upward slope as we're starting to harvest the revenues from our increased community count.
Now our crystal ball obviously gets a lot fuzzier as we go further out.
But in general we are certainly focused on increasing the community count and getting deliveries from the recent increases.
And we're certainly hopeful and anticipating that that will result in an increase revenue.
That's a big change for us.
We've been shrinking revenues basically since the downturn.
And as we stated we kind of think we're at this inflection point where our recent investments over the last 2 years in land are starting to open.
The communities are selling and we think we're going to benefit with better deliveries and cash flow as a result.
Great.
And I have one last question.
I was wondering I guess with the bond market a lot weaker in here I know your RP basket increased with the notable amount of capital you raised this past quarter.
Larry if you can just update us on your thoughts of potentially buying back debt and what your RP basket is now.
I don't think it did materially change as we issued capital over the last quarter on all of the various issues.
Some issues it did.
Some issues it didn't.
So on a net basis it didn't really free up a whole bunch of additional capital for us to invest.
There's some incremental capital.
But I think the number roughly $70 million-ish kind of number is what we have available today to repurchase debt.
That's of a cash amount.
Yes cash amount.
We could buy back.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan.
This is actually Jason Marcus in for Mike.
So I was wondering if you could give us a little color regionally about what have been some of the best and worst markets for you and if any of those trends have changed notably over the last quarter or so? Sure.
Well let's see you kind of go around the country.
As I've kind of noted the Sacramento California that greater valley in Linden Northern California was definitely a little slower in the last couple of quarters.
It's one of the places we've made some price adjustments and the price adjustments had seemed to have helped and there's a little more pick up there.
In the Bay Area more in the Silicon Valley commuting area that market has continued to be strong.
In the Southern California market the further out areas Inland Empires continue to be sluggish better as you get closer to the coast.
On the other coast in the D.C.
market the Maryland market had slowed in the second quarter.
But as we noted there too we did some pricing adjustments and it seemed to have picked up a bit in that market in May.
The Texas markets pretty much held steady.
I'd say most of the other markets have generally held pretty steady in terms of sales pace.
Okay.
And then just regarding some recent land market trends I was just kind of wondering what you've been seeing in the land market in terms of competition and then kind of what regions you've been focusing on? We really have been focused on all the geographies.
We really need to feed each of our geographies to hope to increase our revenues.
And basically we're at the moment not trying to emphasize one geography or the other.
We're really just looking at each deal as it rises and looking at the underwriting and just trying to get the best opportunities that meet our hurdle rates.
Needless to say we've got to go through a lot of opportunities to find some that meet our hurdle rates.
I wouldn't say the competition has changed dramatically.
It's generally more from the public builder arena although there is some participation certainly from the private builders.
I'd say most of the competition for land is from our fellow public builders.
Your next question comes from the line of Joel Locker from FBN Securities.
Inc.</strong> Just on your May orders how many of those 580 or so were JV orders? What was consolidated? We're looking it up hold on.
Inc.</strong> And then just as you look that one up the orders I guess were down a little over 30% year-over-year in the West and Midwest? Was that just a matter of absorptions or was community count down or different than the actual company? Brad do you happen to have that number at the tip of your fingers.
Not for community count I don't.
We could get back to him on that.
I'll follow-up lately.
And then are just community count on the -- yes and then what about the orders? Yes.
JV -- Jeff you can answer the question.
Yes.
JVs were 42 net contracts in May.
Inc.</strong> 42 net contracts.
[Operator Instructions] The next question comes from the line of Alex Barron from Housing Research.
I wanted to ask of that $450 million.
Sorry if I didn't hear it correctly.
The $450 million of cash flow is that before you pay interest or after you pay interest? After.
Okay.
So what is it so far year-to-date? You might have it at your finger tips.
Yes.
Well this quarter was $37 million positive.
Again that's before land and land development spend that we mentioned.
We can look it up.
We don't have it at our fingertips.
I just don't recall precisely what the last quarter was.
Jeff or Brad? $47.8 million last quarter.
$47.8 million of last quarter.
I'm sorry that was -- you're talking about before land spend? Before land spend.
Hold on.
$47 million okay.
No hold on.
That was after land spend.
Just checking.
There was $27 million before land spend.
You went the wrong way.
You said it's $47 million before land spend.
So it's $60 million combined year-to-date.
But as we discussed we expect the cash flow to be changing based on the revenues that we just cited and I'll refer back to Slide 15 in our guidance for the next 2 quarters on revenues.
Right.
Okay.
And in terms of SG&amp;A I know you guys had a slight sequential drop this quarter.
But I'm kind of looking at it from a number of different perspectives and I guess the question is if conditions don't improve significantly from here I mean let's say revenues are up I don't know 10% next year or something what are you guys doing to kind of cut SG&amp;A further? I know you guys are trying to grow the top line which is good but what are you doing to try to cut your way through profitability as well? I mean the first thing I'd say is we cut 80% of our staff since we beat into 2006.
So we continue to take appropriate steps to right size our business units to the level of business that they're generating.
So it's something that we constantly monitor but we think most of the cutting is behind us and we're hoping to grow.
But I mean if the market had a double dip as we've demonstrated over the last several years we'll take appropriate action at the appropriate time.
It's something we're clearly focused on besides hoping to gain leverage from the size.
I mean we've taken a function that used to be at the divisional level and we've centralized them to the regional or corporate level.
We're watching extremely closely advertising spend.
We're working on it in every possible area we can right now.
Got it.
And your next question comes from the line of Adam Rudiger from Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC</strong> I want to first ask you a question about your breakeven.
Looked at the kind of presentations you've used in the past and looked at kind of analysis like that and from my math I think you probably need some similar analysis you've done in the past anywhere from 315 to 380 communities 380 to 315 based upon kind of a run rate of deliveries per community and kind of the gross margins you're targeting.
I was wondering if that was consistent with what your thoughts were.
And if so when you think you would have that number of communities delivering say 25 homes a year.
Again the kind of scenario we did last quarter gave various scenarios based on what assumptions you wanted to make.
But at various margins and various absorptions per community we're not changing anything we put on that sheet.
And none of those scenarios that we discussed last quarter had anywhere near that number of acquired communities.
The range we discussed depending on whether you had a 17% or 20% gross margin depending on whether deliveries were 23 per year per community or 33 the range was between about 190 communities which is less than we have right now to a high of 320 communities with the lowest gross margin and the lowest deliveries.
LLC</strong> Were you willing to share with us when you think you could...? No I think we try to give as much visibility as we could with 2 quarters' guidance.
We did the guidance on a one-time basis this quarter.
Don't expect it in future quarters for the reasons that Ara cited earlier.
We're just trying to illustrate from a cash flow perspective and give you some insights as to our thought processes.
It's a difficult environment to make any kind of long-term precise projection as to when we're going to get to certain communities.
That depends on when we find enough opportunities that pencil to our 25% unlevered IRR based on the then current home prices and then current sales pace.
So it's just not something that we're willing to make a precise projection on.
LLC</strong> Okay understand that.
My second question then is just on the May orders.
What is the normal -- when does the bulk of the cancellations normally occur? And I asked that because I think since we're so close to the end of May still is likely that some of those orders will get canceled.
I'm just trying to think about how to model the next quarter of orders.
Our cancellation rates been relatively stable for a number of quarters now give or take the low 20% kind of range.
So if you try to do your model I would use that on a consistent basis just kind of a normalized cancellation rate.
Most of the cancellations that do occur happen during the right of rescission which changes by state could be nothing could be 15 days and that's when the majority of them occur.
But in terms of a modeling perspective just use the average of what our cancellation rates have been the last 3 or 4 quarters.
Keep in mind 500 the 501 we reported was net.
The gross number was higher.
The 501 included cancellations from prior sales.
LLC</strong> Right.
What I'm just asking those it's likely that all the orders you generated in the last quarter of May maybe you haven't really gotten any cancellations on there so there's probably an appropriate haircut.
I'm just trying to think...
The ones from the last couple of weeks of the prior period.
But anyway I think we've given you enough guidance today.
We're pretty consistent and stable in our cancellation rates right now and the cancellations typically happen I'd say the vast majority in the first 2 weeks.
And your next question comes from the line of Mike Kim from CRT.
I just have a question on the ability to issue additional shares for cash.
And I guess you mentioned the ability to issue more than 100 million shares and it steps up to more than 125 million.
Larry could you help us reconcile how you get to the share count for additional issuance? I thought it was much lower but I'm just wanting to be sure.
We actually hired Ernst &amp; Young to go through the count for us and they completed it yesterday knowing exactly who our 5% holders were.
It's a very very complicated calculation.
I was pleasantly surprised to see the number as high as it was as well.
But it has to do with how many new public groups are created when you do the issuance and what the tax regulations require you to assume when you issue new shares.
So suffice it to say that I'm not the expert on exactly how the math is done on that calculation but we're very confident that Ernst &amp; Young did the calculation properly.
That's interesting.
Okay no I appreciate that.
Just wanted to discuss joint venture activity a bit further.
I'm not sure if you can provide us guidance but what are the current gross margins for the JV units in backlog? And just to follow-up another question when can we expect the contribution from unconsolidated JVs to turn positives? We've made no public disclosure of what the gross margin on our JV sales are that are in the backlog but for purposes of modeling all you can do is assume that our JVs are performing similar to our consolidated maybe a little bit higher because their weighted to newly identified communities.
Yes and because they are larger the communities generally require a higher gross margin to achieve the IRR hurdle.
So I'd say on average as Larry mentioned it's a little higher than the company average.
And we're not making projections that detailed projections in terms of P&amp;L.
Understood.
And if I could sneak one last question.
Just a housekeeping item.
Were there any impairment reversals this past quarter or the prior quarter in gross margins? Yes.
As we announced it was $22 million roughly of impairment reversals versus about $43 million last year.
So clearly it helped -- the impairment reversals helped gross margins quite a bit more a year ago than they did this year.
That also made comparisons a little difficult.
Understood.
Okay.
And I show no more questions at this time.
So I would like to turn it back to Mr.
Hovnanian for closing remarks.
Great.
Well thank you very much.
We're very helpful as I'm sure hopeful.
And I'm sure many of you are that the recent sales momentum will continue for us and the overall industry.
We think that will be great for the economy.
We look forward to giving you another update next quarter.
Thank you.
This concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you all for participating and have a nice day.
All parties may now disconnect.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for Hovnanian Enterprises Fiscal 2011 Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
An archive of the webcast will be available after the completion of the call and runs for 12 months.
This conference is being recorded for rebroadcast.
[Operator Instructions] The company will also be webcasting a slide presentation along with the opening comments from management.
The slides are available on the Investors page of the company's website at khov.com.
Those listeners who would like to follow along should log on to the website at this time.
Before we begin I would like to read the following forward-looking statement.
All statements made during this conference call that are not historical facts should be considered as forward-looking statements.
Such statements involve known and unknown risks uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results performance or achievements of the company to be materially different from any future results performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements.
Such risks uncertainties and other factors include but are not limited to: Changes in general and local economic and industry and business conditions and impact of the sustained homebuilding downturn; adverse weather and other environmental conditions and natural disasters; changes in market conditions and seasonality of the company's business; changes in home prices and sales activity in the market where the company builds homes; government regulation including regulations concerning development of land the homebuilding sales and customer financing processes tax laws and the environment; fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of mortgage financing; shortages in and price fluctuations of raw materials and labor; the availability and cost of suitable land and improved lots; levels of competition; availability of financing to the company; utility shortages and outages or rate fluctuation; levels of indebtedness and restrictions on the company's operations and activities imposed by the agreements governing the company's outstanding indebtedness; the company's sources of liquidity; changes in credit ratings; availability of net operating loss carryforwards; operations through joint ventures with third parties; product liability litigation and warranty claims; successful identification and integration of acquisitions; significant influence of the company's controlling stockholders; geopolitical risks terrorist acts and other acts of war; and other factors described in detail in the company's annual report on Form 10-K/A for the year ended October 31 2010 and the company's quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended January 31 2011 April 30 2011 and July 31 2011 respectively.
Except as otherwise required by applicable securities laws we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events changed circumstances or any other reason.
I would now like to turn the conference call to Ara Hovnanian Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of Hovnanian Enterprises.
Ara please go ahead.
Thank you.
Well after that exciting introduction good morning everyone and based on her slight mispronunciation of our name you can see that we've cut back on our advertising budgets as part of our SG&amp;A attempts.
Good morning and thanks for participating on today's call to review the results of our 9 months and third quarter ended July 31 of 2011.
Joining me today from the company are Larry Sorsby Executive Vice President and CFO; Brad O'Connor Vice President Chief Accounting Officer and Corporate Controller; David Valiaveedan Vice President Finance and Treasurer; and Jeff O'Keefe Vice President of Investor Relations.
On Slide 3 you can see a brief summary of our third quarter results and the comparison to last year's third quarter.
Of note our net contracts and backlog both improved over -- on a year-over-year basis.
Additionally our land-related charges and net loss were less this year.
Slide 4 shows a sequential comparison of our third quarter results to our second quarter results as well as our guidance that we gave on our second quarter conference call for deliveries Homebuilding revenues and Homebuilding gross margin.
As you can see we reported sequential increases and met our guidance for each of the 3 line items.
Additionally our net contracts and backlog increased on a sequential basis.
More importantly our losses were less in the third quarter.
Slide 5 shows our monthly net contracts through the month of August with this year in red and last year in yellow.
You can clearly see the sales momentum leading up to the expiration of the tax credit last year on April 30 2010.
As we all know sales dropped dramatically in May of 2010 and continued to decline in June of 2010.
Fast forward to the third quarter of fiscal '11 net contracts improved each month with year-over-year increases of 28% 30% and 42% for the months of May June and July respectively.
The pace of improvements lessened in August of 2011 when we reported 384 net contracts which was slightly more than the 377 we had in August of 2010 but less than the 437 net contracts in July of 2011.
There were several primary reasons for this shift.
First during August of 2010 sales did start to increase from the dismal levels we saw in June and July last year after the tax credit expiration.
However during August this year homebuyer confidence was clearly affected by the extreme stock market volatility and the federal debt ceiling battle.
Compounding the problem was Hurricane Irene which impacted many of our markets; in fact our New Jersey division office did not regain power for about 5 days.
However much of the year-over-year and sequential differential is due to the fact that August 2010 and July of 2011 those comparison months had the benefit of 5 weekends compared to just 4 weekends in August of this year.
Because the vast majority of our sales occurred during the weekend Slide 6 illustrates the impact of the number of weekends in a month and how it can affect our sales level.
The left side of the page shows monthly sales.
The right side shows weekly sales each month based on the number of Sundays.
The monthly sales show more volatility than the weekly averages each month.
The weekly averages were reasonably consistent throughout the third quarter and continued through August.
That being said August sales this year were short of our expectations and current market conditions do feel somewhat weaker than they did earlier in the quarter.
Slide #7 shows similar monthly contract data but broken out by contract per community.
While you can see that net contracts per community per month bounced around a little during the third quarter all were increases of 20% or more over year-ago levels and sequentially we're pleased that 2 of the 3 months were higher than what we saw for our second quarter.
The sales per community were similarly affected by the number of weeks in each month.
Slide 8 puts all of this into perspective as it shows contracts per community on an annual basis.
As we look at the remainder of the year we expect to continue to bounce along the bottom and be somewhere around the 23 net contracts per community we've achieved for the past 2 years.
This means that we are still off by about 50% compared to the historic normalized pace of about 45 contracts per year and obviously much more compared to the peak years.
With all of the economic turmoil both domestic and international there's not much that points to an improving housing market at any point in the near future.
Our internal business plan assumes market conditions do not improve until late 2013 and even then we only assume a modest sales pace improvement and no home price improvements.
Since we underwrite new land purchases based on today's home prices as long as the housing market remains relatively stable we can achieve higher gross margins without relying on an improved market.
Assuming stable market conditions as we continue to grow our community count both revenues and absolute levels of gross margin dollars should increase which puts us on the path to returning to profitability.
Absent an increase in sales pace we can still achieve improved operating efficiencies and revenue growth by increasing our community count.
Year-over-year community count was up as seen on Slide #9 however we took a slight step backwards in the third quarter with a total community count dropping by 4 communities in the third quarter of 2011 compared to the second quarter.
Shortfall is mainly due to delays in getting already-owned communities up and open for sales.
While we are not providing guidance on the exact number of communities for the end of the year we do anticipate having more communities open than we had at the end of the third quarter.
Our mix of newly identified actively-selling communities to total communities continues to rise.
This increase should result in more deliveries from new communities in 2012.
For all of 2010 about 12% of our deliveries came from new communities.
In 2011 we expect it to be more than 40% and given the current mix of communities we would expect a further increase in 2012.
Slide 10 shows the progress we have made in controlling new land parcels.
Since January of '09 we have purchased or optioned approximately 16 000 lots.
The land that we have purchased or optioned met or exceeded our investment threshold of a 25% IRR based on the then current sales price and no change in sales pace for the next 2 years.
We expect many of these communities to sell out in about 2 years from the start of deliveries quickly turning the assets back into cash for reinvestment or repaying debt as it becomes due.
Without a doubt these purchases were better than sitting on our cash earning a few basis points on treasuries even with a slightly deteriorated performance since acquisition.
Of the 180 new communities that we've purchased since January of '09 3 or about 2% have had performance deteriorate enough to warrant a write-down.
Staying true to our underwriting criteria when we experience a slowing sales pace or increased buyer concessions we will attempt to renegotiate lot option agreements.
If we're not successful we'll walk away from our deposit and the lot option agreement.
During the third quarter we walked away from 1 380 lots under option in 19 communities; 480 were legacy option lots 900 were lots optioned after January of '09.
As you can see on the bottom right-hand side of the slide we optioned 1 500 new lots in the third quarter.
The net result for the quarter was that our total lots purchased or controlled since January of '09 increased by about 600 lots sequentially from the second quarter of 2011 an improvement over our prior 2 quarters.
In the third quarter we purchased about 900 newly identified lots in 88 communities.
In addition we purchased about 300 lots from legacy options.
In total we spent about $105 million of cash in the quarter to purchase approximately 1 200 lots and to developed land across the company.
Cash flow from operations after interest was positive by about $29 million prior to the investment in new land and land development.
We continue to seek opportunities in all of our markets and we've had success at finding new deals that make sense in most of our markets although not as rapidly as we'd like.
At the end of the third quarter 70% of our wholly-owned communities that were opened for sale were newly identified communities that we controlled after January of '09.
However only 43% of our consolidated third quarter deliveries came from newly identified land.
Since many of these newly identified communities were recently opened they will not begin to deliver homes until the fourth quarter of 2011 and beyond.
As long as we see no changes in market conditions this mix shift should cause our gross margins to improve in the fourth quarter which is consistent with statements we've made on the past 3 quarterly calls.
Our gross margins while down on a year-over-year basis did improve modestly in the third quarter compared to what we reported in the second quarter as seen on the right-hand side of Slide #11.
This sequential increase was consistent with the guidance we provided in the second quarter call.
During the third quarter of 2011 there were $25 million of impairment reversals compared to $40 million of impairment reversals in the third quarter of 2010.
Margins are still below normalized levels.
Clearly pricing pressures remain throughout the market challenging our margins.
Incidentally 9 of our 12 publicly traded peers reported year-over-year decreases in margins in their most recent quarters.
On the right-hand side of Slide 12 the bars show the absolute dollar amount of total SG&amp;A is lower when compared to both the third quarter of last year and the second quarter of 2011.
When you look at the total SG&amp;A as a percentage of total revenues as we have shown underneath the bars on the right-hand side of Slide #12 the 16.3% for the third quarter of fiscal '11 compared with 20.3% during the second quarter of 2011 it is still much higher than our historical norm.
These high percentages occurred despite almost 80% reductions in our staffing levels shown in the left-hand side of this chart.
The improvement in SG&amp;A as a percentage of total revenues during the third quarter compared to the second quarter of 2011 illustrates both our continued cost saving measures and the leverage we can get from our existing SG&amp;A by increasing deliveries and revenues.
As we have said in the past in spite of our right-sizing efforts we still have some excess capacity at our divisional regional and corporate offices.
As we open new communities incremental spending related to our community count will come almost exclusively at the community level.
There we typically need to add a construction supervisor and one sales associate per community.
Over time the combination of further improvements in gross margin trending back to normalized gross margins in the 20% range coupled with SG&amp;A and interest leverage as we grow our community count and increase revenues will get us to the point where our Homebuilding operations are once again profitable.
We still have more work to do as we seek new land parcels that will bring us the types of returns that we need to continue to the path of profitability.
We're making some progress there.
Our current backlog gives us some visibility over the next 3 months.
Last quarter we gave guidance for the fourth quarter in terms of deliveries Homebuilding revenues and gross margin which you can see on Slide 13.
Given the recent stock market turmoil and volatility Hurricane Irene and pricing pressures we now expect to be either at or slightly less than the low end of the range for deliveries revenues and gross margin.
While we are pleased that the third quarter was in line with the midrange of our guidance and the fourth quarter should be close to the lower end of the range we initially gave there's still quite a bit of uncertainty related to the longer-term cash flow guidance we provided during last quarter's call.
While we did give some longer-term guidance during that one call we did say we would not continue the practice and that we were making an exception that quarter.
The recent extreme stock market volatility and its effect on consumer confidence make it even more difficult to make projections over the long term.
Additionally the unknown impact of the upcoming loan limit reductions on October 1 adds to the uncertainty in making longer-term guidance.
We remain committed to maintaining adequate cash liquidity.
If cash flow from operations does not meet the guidance we provided on our second quarter call we would reduce our land spend accordingly to ensure we maintain our targeted cash balance.
I'll now turn it over to Larry who'll discuss our inventory liquidity and mortgage operations as well as a few other topics.
Thanks Ara.
Let me start with discussing our current inventory from a couple of different perspectives.
Turning to Slide 14 you'll see our owned and optioned land position broken out by our publicly reported segments.
Based on trailing 12-month deliveries we own 4.8 years worth of land.
However if you exclude the 7 678 mothballed lots we only own 2.9 years worth of land based on the low sales absorption rate of the past 4 quarters.
Our owned lot position increased sequentially in the third quarter while the optioned lot position decreased.
We purchased approximately 1 200 lots during the third quarter which was offset by 993 deliveries.
On the option side of the equation we walked away from 1 380 optioned lots and signed new optioned contracts for an additional 1 500 lots during the quarter.
At the end of the third quarter 65% of our optioned lots are newly identified lots and 25% of our owned lots were newly identified lots.
When you combine our optioned and owned land together 39% of the total lots that we control today are newly identified lots.
On Slide 15 we show a breakdown of the 19 053 lots we owned at the end of the third quarter.
Approximately 37% of these were 80% or more finished 15% had 30% to 80% of the improvements already in place and the remaining 48% have less than 30% of the improvement dollars spent.
While our primary focus is on purchasing improved lots it's continuing to get more difficult at certain markets to find finished lots for sale at a reasonable price.
Where land development is required we typically are able to break development down into many smaller phases as small as 15 to 20 lots minimizing our capital outlay and returning the expenditures into cash relatively quickly.
About 28% of the remaining newly identified lots we purchased or contracted to purchase are lots where it makes economic sense to do some level of land development and we continue to complete land development on sections of our legacy land as well.
Now I'll turn to land-related charges which can be seen on Slide 16.
We booked $5.1 million of land impairments in 13 communities during the third quarter.
$3.2 million or 63% of those charges were in 2 newly identified communities in Northern California.
Additionally $1 million of our impairments was taken on 19 lots associated with walking away from 4 communities in the Carolinas.
To date including $3.2 million of the charges from the third quarter we have taken $6.5 million of impairments on 3 newly identified communities which are all located in Northern California.
We have now taken impairments on 3 of the 180 newly owned communities we've purchased since January 31 2009.
During the third quarter our walkaway charges were $6.3 million which were spread across 19 communities throughout our markets.
$4 million or 63% of these charges were in either Maryland or Virginia.
Bringing it down to the community level $3.1 million of the charges were in just 3 communities.
In total we booked $11.4 million of land-related impairment and walkaway charges in the third quarter of fiscal 2011.
Our investment in land option deposits was $22.2 million at July 31 2011 with $20.5 million in cash deposits and the other 17 -- or excuse me $1.7 million of deposits being held by letters of credit.
Additionally we have another $15.1 million invested in pre-development expenses.
Turning to Slide 17.
We show that we have 7 678 lots within 57 communities that were mothballed as of July 31 and on this slide we break those lots out by geographic segment.
The book value at the end of the third quarter for these remaining mothballed communities was $174 million net of an impairment balance of $556 million.
We are carrying these mothballed lots at 24% of their original value.
Looking at all of our consolidated communities in the aggregate including mothballed communities we have an inventory book value of $1 025 000 000 net of $833.5 million of impairments which were recorded on 146 of our communities.
Of the properties that have been impaired we're carrying them at 26% of their pre-impaired value.
Turning now to Slide 18.
On a sequential basis the number of started unsold homes excluding models and unconsolidated joint ventures decreased slightly.
We ended the third quarter with 742 started unsold homes.
This translates to 4 started and unsold homes per active selling community which is lower than our long-term average of about 4.9 unsold homes per community.
Another area of discussion for the quarter is related to our current and deferred tax asset valuation allowance.
At the end of the third quarter the valuation allowance in the aggregate was $859 million.
We view this as a very significant asset not currently reflected on our balance sheet and have taken steps to protect it.
We expect to be able to reverse this allowance after we generate consecutive years of solid profitability and can look forward and continue to project solid profitability.
When a reversal does occur we expect the remaining allowance will be added back to our shareholders' equity and will further strengthen our balance sheet.
Today we could issue more than 100 million additional shares of common stock per cash and as of October 2011 that increases to more than 125 million common shares without limiting our ability to utilize our NOLs.
This has not changed from what we reported last quarter.
We ended the third quarter with total shareholders' deficit of $399 million.
If you add back the total valuation allowance as we've done on Slide 19 our total shareholders' equity would be $460 million.
Let me reiterate the tax asset valuation allowance is for GAAP purposes only.
For tax purposes our tax assets may be carried forward for 20 years from incurrence and we expect to utilize those tax loss carryforwards as we generate profits in the future.
For the first $1.8 billion of pretax profits we generate we will not have to pay federal income taxes.
Now let me update you briefly on the mortgage markets and our mortgage finance operation.
We believe the mortgage underwriting pendulum has swung too far to the side of caution.
We find ourselves in a position where excessively strict underwriting criteria is preventing someone who would have received a loan in the days prior to the advent of subprime and Alt-A loans from getting a mortgage today.
The mortgage industry needs to go back to a rational and responsible lending environment where lenders are not afraid to give a loan to someone with compensating factors.
In October the conforming loan limits for FHA VA Fannie and Freddie will be reduced.
While less than 5% of our communities will be directly impacted these loan limit reductions will affect the entire housing market not just those needing a $729 000 mortgage.
In many of our markets the conforming loan limits are much less than $729 000.
You can see some examples from several of our markets on Slide 20.
For instance in Kent County Delaware FHA loan limits were reduced by $105 200.
In Atlantic County New Jersey it came down by $137 500.
In Maricopa County Arizona it was decreased by $75 200.
We believe any pressure that is felt on the upper end of the market will adversely impact all home prices but it is too early to know what the full extent will be.
We believe that any reduction to demand at this point in the housing cycle is not good governmental policy.
Obviously we will be monitoring this situation very closely.
Turning to Slide 21.
You can see here the credit quality of our mortgage customers continues to be strong with an average FICO score of 736.
During the third quarter our mortgage company captured 78% of our non-cash homebuying customers.
Turning to Slide 22 here we show a breakout of all the various loan types originated by our mortgage operations in the third quarter of fiscal 2011 compared to all of fiscal 2010.
46.1% of our originations were FHA/VA during the third quarter of fiscal 2011 similar to the 49.3% we sold during all of fiscal 2010.
Let me update you quickly about what's happening with our loan repurchase request we're receiving from various banks.
We continue to believe that the vast majority of repurchase requests that we've received are unjustified.
On Slide 23 you'll see our payments from fiscal 2008 through the first 9 months of fiscal 2011.
So far in the first 9 months of 2011 our repayments were only $1 million.
Additionally during the third quarter we received only 6 repurchase inquiries which was much less than last year's quarterly average of about 25 inquiries.
It is our policy to estimate and reserve potential losses when we sell loans to investors.
All of the above losses had been adequately reserved for in previous periods.
At the end of the third quarter our reserve for loan repurchases and make whole requests was $5.2 million which we believe is adequate for our exposure.
To date repurchase has not been a significant problem but we will continue to monitor this issue closely.
Our cancellation rates remain at normal levels.
Our cancellation rate for the third quarter was 18% lower than both the 20% we reported for this year's second quarter and the 23% cancellation rate that we reported for last year's third quarter when the tax credit was in place.
Turning to Slide 24 it shows our debt maturity schedule as of the end of our third quarter.
What you see very clearly is that we have only $68 million of debt coming due before 2015.
Since the end of the third quarter we have used $11 million of cash to repurchase $18 million face value of bonds maturing in 2014 and 2015.
After making these purchases we have approximately $50 million of capacity left to repurchase additional bonds.
In spite of extending some of our debt maturities and issuing equity earlier this year clearly having adequate liquidity for growth is a concern of many investors.
As we've mentioned on our last conference call we have run endless financial models using numerous scenarios and assumptions.
We believe we have adequate liquidity and cash flow to return to profitability meet our debt maturity payments through 2015 and position our balance sheet for refinancing options in 2016.
At the end of July after spending approximately $105 million of cash to purchase 1 200 lots and on overall new land development across the company we ended the quarter with $334 million of cash including $60.8 million of homebuilding restricted cash used to collateralize letters of credit.
The amount of homebuilding restricted cash used to collateralize letters of credit has steadily declined from about $135 million at the end of fiscal 2009 to the current level of $60.8 million.
Since we first gave out a targeted cash level in the fourth quarter of 2010 restricted cash used to collateralize letters of credit has reduced by $32 million.
This $32 million reduction frees up an identical amount of cash to invest in our homebuilding operations.
When we provided our original targeted cash level we had $92 million of restricted cash used to collateralize letters of credit implying a homebuilding unrestricted cash target of $110 million to $185 million.
While we are not changing I repeat while we are not changing our homebuilding unrestricted cash target since our restricted cash used to collateralize letters of credit has been reduced by $32 million we are now reducing our targeted total cash to a range of $245 million to $170 million.
Our focus will remain at keeping total cash at quarter end at the top end of our range or $245 million with no single quarter falling below $170 million.
Our intention is to become fully invested in land as quickly as we find land opportunities that meet our underwriting criteria of a 25-plus percent IRR based on current home sales prices and absorption rates.
Some people believe that we should not be investing in land but should just sit on the cash we have.
We are comfortable targeting our projected level of cash because the bulk of our investments and wholly owned inventory will be in communities with shorter lives regenerating into cash in the near term.
Investments in land are needed to grow our community count and in turn our top line which will eventually drive greater operating efficiencies and return us to profitability.
Keep in mind that we have discretion over the amount of investments we make in land and land development.
We have the ability to reduce our land and land development spending based on actual cash flow compared to our internal projections.
If needed to ensure we keep cash within our targeted range we are prepared to adjust our land spend downward.
We understand the market's concern with liquidity; it is something we continue to monitor closely as well.
However our internal financial models give us confidence that we have sufficient capital to grow our way back to profitability even in a flat non-recovering market.
While we cannot project when the housing market will recover we do feel that our performance is at an inflection point.
Sales dropped precipitously last -- in last year's third and fourth quarters after the expiration of the tax credit.
Our first 2 quarters of delivery this year showed the effect of that.
However net contract comparisons to last year were positive in our third quarter and given the current sales pace and growth in community count should continue to show improvements in the fourth quarter.
Our gross margin should improve as our mix from newer communities improves.
While this is not a direct proxy for cash flow we do see our cash flow improving as well.
Given that our large bond maturities are in 2016 we think that gives us sufficient time to improve our performance and our balance sheet to giving us further options on the capital front.
That concludes our prepared remarks and now we'll be glad to open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And the first question comes from the line of Dan Oppenheim with Crédit Suisse.
I was wondering if you could talk about just overhead spending and such -- what's -- that did well in the quarter despite having higher closings and such? How -- is there anything going on there? Is that just reflective of the cuts that you've been making? And do you think -- is that sort of where you are in this point in terms of overhead? It's just been a general tightening of the belt no one specific thing at all levels corporate divisional spending at the communities as well.
Okay.
And then I guess you'd talked about sort of being flexible in terms of the land spending depending on the outlook and such which clearly makes sense.
What is it -- is it going to really be driven by just the cash that you're sitting on? Are you going to be looking at it based on the order trends here? What would you need to see in terms of adjusting there? I think the first thing is is we've got to find opportunities that hit our hurdle rate of a 25-plus percent IRR based on today's prices and absorption paces.
We -- as Ara mentioned in his comments we've not seen it -- as many opportunities as rapidly as we'd want but the controlling factor obviously is our cash projected cash balances at quarter end.
Having said that we did make actually a little more progress in net land controlled position in the third quarter than we did in the first 2 quarters so there are opportunities out there.
We are also focused on land parcels that are shorter maturities.
We're not looking to make long-term investments even if they beat our IRR hurdles because we want to maintain our flexibility we want our investments to generate the profits and then turn back into cash fairly quickly in this environment.
So we're very focused on the right kinds of land opportunities out there.
And the investment we're just going to gauge it very closely as Larry said based on our outlook for cash flow in future quarters.
And the next question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut with JPMorgan.
I guess the first question is Ara you had mentioned I think in your prepared remarks that given all of the recent volatility in the market that probably has contributed to things slowing a little bit in August and I think you also mentioned that that does have the potential to create some variability to the cash flow projections.
At the same time Larry in your comments you pointed to confidence that still you had orders up year-over-year in 3Q it should be similar in the fourth -- that you're also looking for gains in 4Q and you remain very comfortable with your guidance around cash flow and it being sufficient.
So I was wondering if you could kind of reconcile those statements the former statements just more of hedging statements and over the next few months you're still comfortable with your original projections or is this more just kind of speak to the lowering of the revenue guidance that -- to the lower end of the range? Yes I would say that one thing I would point out is we're concerned about the macroeconomics that are going on and some of the things that Ara mentioned stock market volatility the -- drives consumer confidence even if they're not big stock market investors.
Certainly settling the debt crisis that the U.S.
faced and so on has an impact on consumer confidence.
Having said that during the month of August our weekly sales pace was equal kind of to the weekly sales pace that we had been seeing in the prior 2 or 3 months during the quarter just ended.
We are concerned about the impact that the lower loan limits may have primarily on home prices rather than on sales pace but I think overall we're still pretty comfortable that because last year's fourth quarter still had some negative impact from the expiration of the tax credit a year ago with the community count growth and kind of what our current sales pace has been even in spite of some of those macroeconomic events during the month of August that we're still comfortable that we're going to show improvement.
I mean I think our comment was meant to make clear that longer-term projections in this environment are pretty difficult.
I mean we obviously are happy.
We met with the guidance in the third quarter.
We think we'll be at or very close to the range of the guidance in our fourth quarter.
But as you look out obviously as we look out further the crystal ball gets foggier.
That's all we're trying to make clear.
Great.
And then just going to the -- going back to the SG&amp;A for a second you had about a $5 million decrease sequentially on the SG&amp;A line in and of itself.
How are we to think about projecting that? I mean is that a base that we can use and maybe just add a 4% variable on sales commissions or were there things that that $5 million improvement in the quarter that were maybe one-time or temporary in nature? In general we're just not going to give you crystal-clear guidance but I don't think there's anything too unusual about our SG&amp;A expense during the quarter.
So sitting in your chair the best you can do is assume that that is kind of the current level of SG&amp;A that we're running.
Again I don't think there's anything especially unusual in the quarter.
We made progress from the first quarter to the second quarter.
I think we were asked the same thing then.
I don't think we quite reduced $5 million but probably close to that.
And the same question was asked and we said then we're just continuing to tighten our belts all around.
And the next question comes from the line of Megan McGrath with MKM Partners.
Just a quick follow-up and reconciling some of the sort of cash targets and things and land spend.
Help us a little bit about -- you've walked away from some "new lands" the 900 lots and your internal projections are showing I think you said no real growth until late 2013.
Is there an argument in terms of the [indiscernible] in market conditions late 2013? Did I get that wrong? Yes we didn't say our internal growth.
We do project our internal growth to occur.
What we said is we did not project the market conditions to improve till late 2013 which meant the pace of sales per community in our internal projections we kept flat until the -- toward the end I think second or third quarter of 2013 third quarter Larry is -- fourth quarter...
We continue to say that there's no improvement in pace for 2 years.
In every quarter we push that out another.
And that sales per community as we've been saying along we are planning to increase our community count and therefore increase our revenues.
And given that thought in terms of the overall market can you talk to us about conditions in the land market? Is there an argument that look if the overall market is flat these land prices are going to get even better 6 months from now or 9 months from now or is it that the land that you're buying is such a quick turn that that math doesn't work? Why buy now? Why not wait 6 to 9 months from now when things are flat and the sellers are going to be even more desperate? Number 1 if we sit on -- number 1 we're not buying long-term positions.
We're buying short term as you pointed out so we want to churn through it.
Number 2 we have fixed interest costs to a large extent and we do have some fixed overheads although we've been making good progress.
We are better off investing even if the yield ends up maybe being slightly less than our 25% IRR.
It's far better than a few basis points in treasuries right now sitting on our excess cash.
So we have been anxious to deploy the excess cash above our targets.
We would've liked to have done it even more rapidly and get down to our targets.
We just haven't quite found the opportunities that we'd like as rapidly as we'd like but we're making progress.
As long as we continue to underwrite and it's our intention to do so based on today's low sales prices and today's absorption paces and again most of our communities are 2 years or less so we don't assume any improvement in pace unless the market significantly weakens it's a strong investment and we get to leverage our overheads as well.
As Ara appropriately points out the alternative investment is treasuries earning a couple of basis points.
So we think it's a very compelling argument to make the land investment play.
Okay.
And then a quick follow-up on the financing market and the FHA loan limit we certainly heard that some banks are already not financing loans under the GSC [Greystone Servicing Corporation] limit so I'm wondering if you've experienced that at all? And any...
What do you mean under the GSC limit? Well they're only doing it at the expected October '11 limit so they've already sort of cut off financing to anyone who's at the higher limit.
I don't know if you've seen that at all or heard that.
We have seen some of that but we have our own mortgage company and they have taken appropriate actions and we are continuing to be able to originate loans today as long as they close prior to October 1 at the current loan limits.
Obviously we don't sell a lot of spec homes in every one of our markets.
Some of our markets a few more than others so we couldn't start a home today and have it delivered by the end of September.
So we are limited on what we can offer some of our current customers because we can't complete the home by that day.
And the next question comes from the line of Michael Kim with CRT Capital Group.
Just on the chart with the land position by geographic segments I was wondering of the owned non-mothballed lots how much land development spend is remaining to take this fully developed and just wondering if there's any regional concentration in terms of the stage of development away from what's in the backlog today? It's just not information at that level of detail that we've made public.
I mean we do provide the 3 buckets that I talked through in my presentation but we don't get any more granular than that.
Understood okay.
And I guess to think about your internal projections when we think about the downside case what are you assuming in terms of price absorption rates housing starts return on equity et cetera? Any color you could provide there? In our internal downside case I mean we run multiple different downside cases so there isn't a particular one but we do run stresses as well as upsides.
And the next question comes from the line of Alan Ratner with Zelman &amp; Associates.
My first one was just on the land that you purchased during the quarter the 1 200 lots or so.
Was curious what percentage if any of those are in communities that are active right now so there would be kind of an additional phase of the community or just kind of acquiring more lots there that you had under control of option previously versus lots that would be in communities that you would be opening in the future? We don't frankly track it that way or break it out.
I mean from our perspective if we've run out of lots and we're able to get another phase elsewhere in the community I mean we're really indifferent.
All we care about is that we've gotten additional properties.
I think it's probably safe to say that we see more of that in a Houston or a Dallas than we do anywhere else but we just don't track it in that particular.
Outside of Houston or Dallas it just doesn't occur very often at all.
Okay.
So the majority of lots that you would be buying today would be kind of in communities that you plan to open at some point in the future? Outside of Houston that's the case.
Yes we don't just track it that way internally.
Got it okay.
And the second question just relates to another question on the mortgage market.
I know there's been an announcement recently from Bank of America that they're exiting the correspondent business.
And I'm not sure how much of your mortgage sales have flowed through them in the past or currently.
But just curious if you expect to see any impact from that or what you're hearing just in general about the future outlook of the correspondent lending business.
We have not been doing business with BofA for more than a year so it won't impact us at all.
Okay.
Who are you primarily selling your loans to today? We sell to Chase Wells Fargo.
Maybe a little bit to Citi.
And the next question comes from the line of David Goldberg with UBS.
My first question.
If we look at Slide 10 and I know there's been a couple of references to the walk aways in the quarter in the current quarter but my question is -- I want to get an idea for thinking about this correctly it seems to me that you've walked away from about 4 300 lots in the last 3 quarters out of a total of 16 000 that you either purchased directly or put under option or kind of controlled through the joint ventures since the beginning of '09 so about 25% of the lots.
Is that the right way to think about the walk aways as the percentage of the total at this point given that there's still some obviously some lots under option? And do you think that's an unusually high number? That's basically right.
Just keep in mind that the 16 000 is what's left after you walked away so you got the gross up to 16 000 for the amount of walk aways to get your percentage calculations appropriate.
And keep in mind that some of walking away from an option is during our due diligence period.
We had it under option probably with no money at risk for 90 days.
And during due diligence we found something that caused us to determine not to proceed or we attempted to negotiate a price reduction and the seller refused.
So again it occurs and it's always occurred even before this downturn in that same kind of condition.
So is it fair to say that the percentage of walk aways relative to the total hasn't really changed that much? I don't know the answer to that question.
But 20% is about the number that wouldn't -- when you gross up the ones that we've walked from...
Probably not an unusual...
Yes it's not a shocking or surprising number to me.
Got it.
And then my second question with the understanding that when you're taking down some of these lots and communities that need some development work and if they're not necessarily finished lots and that you're doing them in chunks smaller chunks so the actual cash turns a little bit faster for the building of those lots specifically.
I'm wondering if you could talk about the additional costs of development and kind of how that would look in terms of the overall obligation? Because obviously I would assume I should say that that's not going to turn as quickly.
You have to wait for the whole community to pull some of that cash out for the whole community to close out.
So can you talk about that generally? No no.
Well first of all it varies dramatically from location to location.
There are parts in Florida or Arizona where the incremental costs to put in the streets for 20 lots is just very nominal.
But we put that investment in get that cash back as you deliver those 20 lots and then we'll be improving another 20 lots.
So you don't have to wait until the end of the community but you've got your investment in 20 lots let's say turning at a time.
Not everything you can do in increments of 20 lots it just depends and if it's the first section it may entail more dollars but the additional sections after the first section to get it started we usually can break off into pretty small dollars.
And the next question comes from the line of Joel Locker with FBN Securities.
Inc.</strong> Just on the consolidated community count.
I guess it's only up one or so year-over-year.
And do you have a target for the end of fourth quarter and maybe at the end of 2012? Not one that we've made public.
Yes we do anticipate increasing and getting some growth again in the fourth quarter even though second -- third quarter we lost a little bit on a sequential basis.
We were still ahead of last year but lost a little on a sequential basis.
It's just hard to make real -- really accurate projections.
You think you're going to open models and then you get a hurricane or a flood or whatever it is or a permit delay or...
Or sales are better and you close down more than you expect to do it's a very difficult number to project.
But I mean the trend that should be should be upward.
Inc.</strong> Right.
And then also on your joint ventures.
What caused the $2.3 million loss? I mean that's I guess been a loss for the last 3 quarters now and when do you expect that to reverse or normalize or at least get back to [indiscernible]? I'm sorry what was it? Inc.</strong> The $2.3 million loss from the joint venture? It was mostly related to -- we entered into 5 more communities last quarter and we got a lot of startups with those new communities.
Inc.</strong> When do you expect that to...
We've got expenses and we don't have the deliveries happening yet.
We're not forecasting a precise performance on joint ventures.
Just like we're not giving detail for the overall company sorry.
Inc.</strong> So the loss could last a couple more quarters just based on the startup costs? Make whatever assumption you want I think we've answered as much as we can answer.
And the next question comes from the line of Nishu Sood with Deutsche Bank.
First question I wanted to ask you about the loan limit reductions that are happening in a few weeks.
There's been a couple different efforts in Congress to maybe try to get those extended.
Obviously they've run into headwinds from some of the parties in Washington.
I just wanted to get your latest thoughts on that.
Do you think there's any chance of success on any of those efforts? What are you seeing? I'd say at the moment it's probably a long shot.
It's not hopeless but I'd call it a long shot which is unfortunate.
It's frankly ridiculous policy that at this stage of the housing cycle that they'd allow the loan limits to reduce.
But that's the way I'd handicap it.
Got it okay great.
And the second question Larry you mentioned that you've lowered your cash targets to the total of $245 million to $170 million and that in the near term you're going to try to keep it towards the high end of that.
I was a little surprised -- I'm not sure if you meant the fourth quarter because the fourth quarter is typically when we would expect it to have quite a strong cash flow performance.
I was just wondering since quarter end to today have cash flows has been less than you expected? Is that a result of less operating cash inflows continued investment in land so what's the kind of current status? The current status is what we reported as of the end of the third quarter.
But I mean you shouldn't read anything into that comment beyond the fact which we tried to make pretty clear is the only reason we're reducing it is that we've been able to reduce the amount of restricted cash.
So we've reduced the target for unrestricted cash by an amount equal to the reduction that we've made in restricted cash.
And there's no meaning beyond that that's something different has happened during this quarter.
At the end of the fourth quarter even though we have great cash inflows because of high deliveries if we find good opportunities to invest in land we'd be comfortable taking cash down from where it was at the end of the third quarter.
So it's really a function of finding opportunities that meet or exceeds our hurdle rate so that we can make new investments.
And I think we did mention that we expect cash flow to be better in the fourth quarter.
So I wouldn't try to misinterpret the comments we're making.
I know it's a little confusing because of the restricted cash comment but as the amount we have tied up that's unusable in the business basically reduces and it's reduced a little better than we had projected that means we have to keep less of that cushion because it's not tied up doing nothing.
Got it.
So does that mean in the last month or so you've been -- are you saying you've been finding a lot of good opportunities to invest in and maybe some thoughts...
No we haven't said anything about what's happened since the end of the third quarter and we're not planning to do so on this call.
Well yes we told you sales since at the end of the first quarter have picked up yes.
[Operator Instructions] And the next question comes from the line of Adam Rudiger with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC</strong> If you look at your mothballed lots they didn't change overall substantially versus last quarter.
But of the increase most of it was in the Northeast and a little bit in the Mid-Atlantic.
That's a little bit surprising to me because I think generally most people or other builders commented those are among the better performing markets.
So I was wondering if you could explain the dynamics there and particularly in the Northeast where I think over 40% of your owned lots are mothballed.
What's happening there and what it will take to get those lots unmothballed? Yes we -- it was primarily due in the Northeast to a land takedown.
I think it was the last land takedown in a parcel that we've just decided is not worth starting at this stage.
It was a nominal increase.
I mean overall increase in mothballed lots barely moved but that's the reason why it did.
LLC</strong> So you're buying land that you still want long term but you just don't want to build on it on the near term? In that particular case it was the last section of a piece of property and we haven't developed the first 2 sections but given that we had the first 2 sections we just thought it made economic sense in this case.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And secondly can you comment on what your cash flow per delivery is right now? Because I think you mentioned about 25% -- $25 million benefit from prior impairments.
And so if you consider that I think your gross -- what would -- closer to a cash gross margin would be maybe closer I think around 6% and I recognize there's some timing issues with...
Well it matters greatly on where is the lot okay.
Because there are no lots created equal when you're comparing a Houston lot to a California lot to a New Jersey to a D.C.
lot.
So what's the average depth of the ocean? I'm not sure if it makes any difference.
So it's hard to answer that question.
Yes and we don't mean to be quippy about it.
It's just cash flow is an incredibly complex animal in housing when you've got a pretty broad geographic scope.
And the next question comes from the line of Alex Barrón with Housing Research Center.
I was hoping you could -- I guess this is more of a strategy question.
Obviously you guys reduced your SG&amp;A this quarter and that's good.
I'm just trying to figure out how you're kind of thinking about priorities between growing the top line versus reaching profitability? Are those 2 intertwined or if the market stays at current flat levels is there a plan -- do you guys keep buying land anyway or do you kind of stop? Well they are intertwined and we do feel we need to get the top line growth.
We can't shrink our way back to profitability.
That being said with every purchase we look at the market conditions at that moment we look at sales prices then we look at the sales pace we assume no improvement.
And if it still makes a 25% IRR and it meets the other conditions we talked about it's not a long-term investment.
It can turn and turn relatively quickly to cash then we move forward with that acquisition.
And each time as we mentioned before we take an internal look at our cash flow we make sure we're comfortable that we can still stay within our targeted excess cash cushion reserves that we talked about earlier.
And as long as we're there then we make the acquisition and that's been the case thus far.
Okay and if we could focus on Northern California.
That was the market where you guys had couple of communities you impaired and 3 deals you walked away from.
What changed since you guys entered into those deals? Was it the sales pace or was it the price? What kind of didn't hit your expectations? First of all the walk aways were from North Carolina not Northern California.
But we did have -- and they were all quite small -- I think it was 4 separate deals.
I've seen a lot.
Yes.
But anyway the Northern California there was -- there are pockets that are definitely having pricing challenges particularly around the Sacramento area some of the Modesto and Stockton areas.
And we look every single quarter at every community and if there's -- if we had to drop our prices for competitive reasons we reevaluate every community.
And the next question comes from the line of Susan Berliner with JPMorgan.
This is actually Rich for Sue.
Just had a quick question with regards to land spend.
Is kind of that $100 million quarterly run rate guidance that you guys gave still a good number to use? Or have you guys revised this down a smaller run rate at least in the near term? How should we look at that? Yes well you might not have caught the earlier part of the presentation but we kind of said look in this environment longer term is just harder and harder to make projections.
We don't know what's going to be the impact on the changed mortgage debt ceiling or the GSCs et cetera.
So we said we're not going to -- we said it at the time we made the guidance last quarter that we're not going to update it.
And we reiterate we're not going to give ongoing updates on a long-term basis.
Okay.
And then I guess just with regards to August orders can you guys comment on at all if you're seeing some increased incentives and cancellations since the end of July given the market fall off and what kind of margins you might expect to see on the August orders? I don't know that we've seen anything significant in terms of increased incentives or concessions.
There might be a community here or there that we've seen that just like we would've seen in June and July.
So I mean it certainly hasn't come to a screeching halt of having to do incentives or concessions but I can't say that there's been an overwhelming tidal wave of increase or anything along those lines.
With respect to cancellation rates we did look not on a calendar month basis but I think on a trailing 4- or 5-week basis for the week ended the end of August and on a 4- or 5-week trailing basis I think cancellation rates around 16% so slightly lower than we had for the entire third quarter.
And the next question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut with JPMorgan.
Just a follow-up.
I think you started to address it in the last question but I was wondering if you could just discuss pricing and incentive trends as they emerged throughout 3Q? And then also again if you could just kind of give us any color in August.
And if there are any regions that on a regional basis anything that's changed or is the stability that you've seen more in the first half of the year something that's broadly continued? I'd say I haven't -- I can't comment that there have been monthly changes.
As I mentioned in my comments I mean in general in the third quarter we've certainly felt pricing pressures as have all the builders.
9 out of 12 reported lower gross margins in their most recent quarter.
So I mean there are clearly some pricing pressures that remain in the marketplace.
I can't say it's getting sequentially worse each month.
I can't say August was dramatically different.
And every single case it's really neighborhood-specific anyway.
It's hard to make generalizations.
Even in a marketplace you can be in one division and one neighborhood's got pricing pressure as the other one's raising prices.
It's that localized.
In general while there's not a trend up or down I'd say there's just continued pricing pressure overall and the same kind of pricing pressure has been there for the whole quarter including through August not a change or directional difference.
And the next question comes from the line of Lee Brading with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC</strong> Wanted to talk a little bit more on the buying of lots and wanted to get a better feel for how hard is it to find lots that meet your hurdles? And also looking at the 1 200 lots that you purchased this past quarter what was kind of the percent that was developed versus undeveloped? I don't have the exact breakdown of developed versus undeveloped.
I'd say generally there's more on the developed side is my gut reaction.
And I'm not sure how to comment on the difficulty.
I mean we're trying to be as transparent as possible.
We made a little more progress this quarter with basically 600 net more lots controlled during the quarter.
The first 2 quarters that number was about 200 net additions.
So we've made some progress but you have to go through it.
It's just a lot of churning and due diligence and you've got to go through whatever the expression is kiss a lot of frogs to find a prince.
It certainly is...
It's always been difficult I think would be one way to answer it and it continues to be difficult today.
But we've always been successful at ultimately finding some but it's hard work and a lot of effort and we have land teams in virtually each one of our individual divisions that's all they do in life.
And many quarters they don't bring us any opportunities for a particular division.
So it isn't like there's a waterfall of deals and we just kind of stick a bucket out and they fall in.
You've got to really hunt hard for them and there's a lot of effort to make sure that they underwrite appropriately and ultimately every one of them comes to corporate to be approved.
It is interesting and we made this comment in the past it's kind of a blessing and a curse.
The banks did not decide to just fire sale and dump everything.
On one hand it would've been nice because we could have made a lot of purchases at low prices.
And that wasn't the case.
The good thing is that that's helped create a little bit of balance.
And the other thing is it means that they still have inventories that just are being kind of dribbled out on a regular basis.
So we do find opportunities each quarter that just didn't exist a couple of quarters earlier.
I can't say there's been a dramatic change one way or the other on our opportunities to find properties throughout year.
If anything again this is my gut reaction you may agree or may disagree.
But I'd say if anything my gut is it's incrementally slowed in terms of deal flow but it's not dramatic one way or the other.
LLC</strong> Got you.
And it doesn't sound like this will happen based on just the kind of discussions that have occurred.
But I mean if you were able to hit those targets and find all the land you could next quarter would you be comfortable taking that cash target down to that $110 million to $185 million area next quarter? Well we generally are targeting the larger number.
However what we recognize is there are quarter-to-quarter fluctuations.
So we target the larger number and recognize that we can have quarters that would dip down.
We'd prefer not to target the lower number and let that have a quarter-to-quarter fluctuation.
But I think the answer would be is we'd be comfortable taking it down to the top end of the range if we found especially smaller deals that we could return to cash within a couple of years that underwrote.
The answer is probably yes we'd take it down to $185 million.
Yes I mean frankly we were hoping we would have gotten there sooner but we haven't.
We tried to invest prudently and we haven't been able to get there yet.
And the next question comes from the line of Andy Casella with Imperial Capital.
LLC</strong> Just real quick on your restricted cash.
I guess how do we think about that going forward as you kind of embark on your land spend? Is that at all going to creep up or are we going to continue to see that decline and be released for you guys to use in your Homebuilding cash? It's hard to say.
We frankly had expected and that's why we didn't count on it shrinking as much.
We expected more of our newer land deals to require more restricted cash but it hasn't been the case.
It's hard to project it for sure going forward but -- and we're not giving specific guidance on projections.
But we've been pleasantly surprised that the newer transactions do not require much -- setting aside much restricted cash and LCs.
LLC</strong> And is there a structural reason for that? I mean why would I guess you guys kind of expected that and it will end up not materializing? Just trying to get an idea on that.
Some of that relates to location of where we find the deals.
Certain markets are tougher with respect to having to post letters of credits and bonds and those kind of things and others are less tough about those kinds of things.
And in some instance we're getting deals that already have them posted and we don't have to post them ourselves.
So it's a combination.
The other part of it is some of the LCs were tied up is deposits on land acquisition and the sellers are being a lot easier today because there just aren't a lot of buyers and they'd rather get price than be tough on LC condition so that's been helpful.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just as a follow-up as it relates to Irene in the Northeast do you anticipate taking any charges in the quarter related to inventory damage et cetera? We've really had minimal damage.
The issue really is delays in terms of for a few days there as Ara mentioned our whole divisional office was without power.
Some of our communities had power issues and we couldn't get some construction done.
So we're talking about a few days of delay in terms of construction.
But I don't believe we had a single house that was materially damaged.
There may have been a little bit of damage of some kind but nothing material.
And the next question comes from the line of Michael Kim with CRT Capital Group.
Just -- I know it's early in September but just wondering if you could provide us with any sort of update on sales pace or even traffic if there's going to be -- or have you seen or witnessed any benefit or improvement in traffic since Hurricane Irene? Yes not only is it early but we just had a hurricane and Labor Day.
So we just can't give anymore color than what we gave.
I think we're one of -- we're on the leading edge in that we released August data.
I don't think every builder gives stuff that currently.
But it's just too early to give a lot more color.
I actually think that the last week in August was the week that was directly impacted by the hurricane so our August results clearly already showed the impact at least of the weekend that Hurricane Irene occurred.
And that impacted not just New Jersey.
I mean it's North Carolina Virginia Maryland Delaware and New Jersey and New York for us.
Yes even Pennsylvania actually.
Even Pennsylvania yes.
So you got some flavor of Irene in our August numbers.
Right.
And just to think about liquidity is there any update on your potential land sales out there and if there's any way you could provide us with an updated unrestricted cash balance? No update yet.
We do have a couple of contracts but you know how it is in this buying or selling environment so no firm update at this stage.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the question-and-answer session for today's call.
I would now like to hand the call over to Mr.
Ara Hovnanian for closing remarks.
Thanks very much and we'll look forward to giving you our next report at our year end.
Thank you.
This concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you for participating and have a nice day.
All parties may now disconnect.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for Hovnanian Enterprises Fiscal 2011 Fourth Quarter and Year-End Conference Call.
An archive of the webcast will be available after the completion of the call and run for 12 months.
This conference is being recorded for rebroadcast [Operator Instructions] The company will also be webcasting a slide presentation along with the opening comments from management.
The slides are available on the Investors Page on the company's website at www.khov.com.
Those listeners who would like to follow along should log in to the website at this time.
Before we begin I would like to read the following forward-looking statement: All statements are made during this conference call that are not historical facts should be considered as forward-looking statements.
Such statements involve known and unknown risks uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results performance or achievements of the company to be materially different from any future results performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements.
Such risks uncertainties and other factors include but are not limited to changes in general and local economic and industry and business conditions and impacts of the sustained homebuilding downturn; adverse weather and other environmental conditions and natural disasters; changes in market conditions and seasonality of the company's business; changes in home prices and sales activity in the market where the company builds homes; government regulation including regulations concerning development of land the homebuilding sales and customer financing process tax laws and the environment; fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of mortgage financing; shortages and price fluctuations of raw materials and labor; the availability and cost of suitable land and improved lots; level of competition; availability of financing to the company; utility shortages and outages or rate fluctuation; levels of indebtedness and restrictions on the company's operations and activities imposed by the agreements governing the company's outstanding indebtedness; the company's sources of liquidity; changes in credit ratings; availability of net operating loss carryforwards; operations through joint ventures with third parties; product liability litigation warranty claims and claims by mortgage investors; successful identification and integration of acquisitions; significant influence of the company's controlling stockholders; changes in tax laws affecting the after tax costs of owning a home; geopolitical risks terrorist attacks and other acts of war; and other factors described in detail in the company's annual report on Form 10-K/A of the year-end October 31 2010 and the company's quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or 10-Q/A for the quarters ended January 31 2011 April 30 2011 and July 31 2011.
Except as otherwise required by applicable securities laws we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events changed circumstances or any other reason.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ara Hovnanian Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of Hovnanian Enterprises.
Ara please go ahead.
After that rousing introduction good morning and thank you for participating in today's call to review the results of our full year and fourth quarter ended October 31 2011.
Joining me today from the company are Larry Sorsby Executive Vice President and CFO; Brad O'Connor Vice President Chief Accounting Officer and Corporate Controller; David Valiaveedan Vice President of Finance and Treasurer; and Jeff O'Keefe Vice President Investor Relations.
On Slide 3 you can see a brief summary of our full-year results and the comparisons to the prior year.
For the first time since 2005 full-year net contracts surpassed the prior year.
Additionally backlog increased 19% on a unit basis.
Obviously deliveries have not caught up yet as you could see on the slide but we believe that that will happen in the increase in sales and backlog.
These nascent indicators of growth are primarily driven by a 5% year-over-year increase in communities.
We've achieved this community count growth through continued investment in new land parcels.
As we've said in the past part of our path back to profitability comes by gaining efficiencies through top line growth.
Our internal projections for the next 2 years assume no improvement in market conditions so any comp line growth is driven by community count growth.
Slide 4 shows 12 months of our net contract per community on a monthly basis which was flat at 1.9 per month for all 3 months of our fourth quarter.
The conditions in the fall weren't dramatically different than what we saw at the end of the summer.
If we were to annualize that number we would've ended the year at approximately 23 net contracts per community for the full year which was about where we were for 2009 and 2010.
If you look at the absolute number of net contracts as we do on Slide 5 it shows that net contracts increased 3% in the fourth quarter of 2011 compared to last year.
While November always begins our slowest sales season of the year this year's November achieved a 31% increase in contracts over last year.
These results were achieved with the same number of Sundays this year and last.
Overall the first 6 weeks of our new fiscal year has been better than our internal expectations.
Going forward we expect sales and traffic to show the typical seasonal slowdown until several weeks after the new year.
By the beginning -- excuse me by the end of January the spring selling season should begin to kick in.
As you can see on Slide 6 we ended the year at 21.3 net contracts per community just slightly below the level of the past 2 years with a slower beginning of the year and a better ending.
For each of the past 4 years our average sales per community per year is up by more than 50% compared to our historical normalized average pace of about 45 contracts per year.
These low absorption rates make it more challenging to return to profitability.
Nonetheless we believe we can achieve profitability before sales pays returns to normalized levels.
Without the market improving a primary driver of efficiencies is growth through community count.
We made some progress on this front in 2011.
Year-over-year community count was up 5% as seen on Slide 7.
Although it's difficult to project future community count we are continuing to look for land parcels that meet our underwriting criteria in order to achieve future community count growth.
As you can see on this slide our mix of newly identified actively selling communities to total communities continues to rise.
For all of 2011 about 44% of our deliveries were from new communities this is up from 12% in 2010.
Given the current mix of communities we would expect that to increase further in 2012.
If you look at our cash flow from operations prior to land spend it would've been positive $87 million much higher than the levels we saw in the first 3 quarters of fiscal '11.
Even after spending $95 million on land and land development cash flow was just negative at $7.9 million materially better than any of the period since we began reporting this information 5 quarters ago.
At the end of the fourth quarter 72% of our wholly-owned communities that were open for sale were newly identified communities that we controlled after January of '09.
However only 44% of our consolidated 2011 deliveries were from newly identified land.
Since many of these newly identified communities were recently opened they will not begin to deliver homes until 2012.
As long as we see no changes in market conditions particularly in home prices this mix shift should cause our gross margins to improve in 2012.
For the fourth quarter our deliveries in homebuilding revenues were in line with our guidance.
Our gross margin increased sequentially again on fourth quarter but clearly not as much as we had expected.
We had been expecting a gross margin of about 16.8% in the fourth quarter and actually achieved 15.5%.
Slide 8 shows the quarterly results for fiscal 2011 on the right-hand side.
Much of the fourth quarter shortfall was due to the need to add additional incentives to maintain sales pace.
A little stability in pricing would help us achieve better returns in our newer purchases.
Over the last 2 years pricing has deteriorated slightly reducing the margins we expected on newer land purchases.
Having said that the land purchases were significantly better than sitting on our cash and investing in treasuries.
During the fourth quarter of 2011 there were $19.1 million of impairment reversals compared to $35 million of impairment reversals in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Margins are still below normalized levels which were in the 20% range as shown on the left-hand side of this slide.
Clearly pricing pressures remained throughout the market challenging our margins.
Our publicly traded peers are seeing this too as 8 of the 13 public peers that we track reported year-over-year declines in gross margins in their most recently reported quarters.
We continue to make adjustments to our staffing levels based on current and expected deliveries.
On the left-hand side of Slide #9 we show that staffing levels are down 78% from the peak in June of '06 and down 8% on a year-over-year basis.
On the right-hand side of the slide the bar showed that the absolute dollar amount of total SG&amp;A is lower when compared to the fourth quarter of last year.
When you look at total SG&amp;A as a percentage of total revenues as we have done -- as we have shown underneath the bars on the right-hand of Slide #9 it is also improved from last year's fourth quarter.
While SG&amp;A has come down in both absolute terms and on a percentage basis it is still much higher than our historical norm of 10% or 11%.
These higher percentages remained despite steep reductions in our staffing levels.
Of note the dollar amount of our fourth quarter homebuilding SG&amp;A was $11.3 million higher than it was in the third quarter of 2011 due primarily to 3 unusually large charges.
As we do every year in the fourth quarter we conducted an actuarial study to determine if we have sufficient construction defect reserves.
Over the last several years the study resulted in no changes.
However this year the study resulted in an increase to our reserves of about $6.3 million.
Keep in mind from a cash flow perspective these reserves are used over an extended period of time not necessarily at the time we make the charge.
Second we had about $2.5 million net increase to legal reserves.
Third we have a $1 million charge for lease abandonments.
We do not anticipate that charges of this magnitude will be recurring as we look forward to 2012.
Therefore we believe that the $47 million SG&amp;A run rate we achieved in the third quarter of 2011 is a more reflective of our expected 2012 average quarterly SG&amp;A costs.
We are well aware about the need to achieve higher gross margins.
Assuming no increases in incentives or home price concessions we are confident that a better mix of deliveries in 2012 will result in higher gross margins.
However as it's typical improvements in deliveries and gross margins should be weighted to the second half of the year.
Now I'll turn it over to Larry who will discuss our inventory liquidity and mortgage operations as well as a few other topics.
Thanks Ara.
Let me start with our efforts to reload our land position.
Turning to Slide 10 it shows the cumulative balance of new land parcels that we've controlled since January 2009.
So far we have purchased or optioned approximately 16 900 lots.
The land that we purchased or optioned met or exceeded our investment threshold of a 25% unlevered IRR based on the then current home selling prices and no change in sales pace for the next couple of years.
In touching with each and every one of these new land purchases is to get the community open for sale as soon as we can.
On average these wholly-owned communities have 58 lots.
Based on current annual sales pace of about 21.3 per community this equates to about a 2.7 year average selling life per community.
Taking into account additional time for land development and permitting we would expect on average to be out of these most communities in less than 4 years.
We continue to seek land opportunities in all of our markets and we've had success in finding new deals that made economic sense in most of our markets.
However the distribution of new land has been skewed the operations in Texas and to a lesser extent Washington DC.
We will remain true to underwriting criteria and are not stretching for deals.
This is evidenced by the fact that we walked away from 1 168 lots in 22 communities during the fourth quarter which includes about 350 legacy lots.
As you can see on this slide throughout fiscal 2011 if the original terms of an option deal no longer made economic sense and we were not able to renegotiate to more favorable terms we were willing to walk away from those communities.
During the fourth quarter we auctioned 1 700 new lots and walked away from 800 newly identified lots.
The net result for the fourth quarter was that our total lots purchased or controlled since January of '09 increased by about 900 lots sequentially from the third quarter of 2011.
In the fourth quarter we purchased 420 newly identified lots in 74 communities.
In addition we purchased about 130 lots from legacy options.
In total we spent approximately $95 million of cash in the quarter to purchase approximately 550 lots and to develop land across the company.
Turning to Slide 11 you'll see our owned and optioned land position broken out by our publicly reported segments.
Based on trailing 12-month deliveries we own 4.8 years worth of land.
However if you exclude the 7 421 mothballed lots we only owned 2.8 years worth of land based on the low delivery rate of the past 4 quarters.
Our owned and optioned lot positions decreased sequentially by 823 lots in the fourth quarter.
We purchased approximately 550 lots during the fourth quarter which was offset by 1 095 deliveries and 273 lots from land sales.
On the optioned side of the equation we walked away from 1 168 optioned lots purchased about 550 optioned lots and signed new optioned contracts for an additional 1 700 knots during the quarter.
At the end of the fourth quarter 70% of our optioned lots were newly identified lots 26% of our owned lots were newly identified lots.
And if you exclude mothballed lots 43% of our owned lots are newly acquired.
When you combine our optioned and owned land together 41% of the total lots that we control today are newly identified lots or excluding mothballed lots 56% are new.
Turning to Slide 12 we show a breakdown of the 18 277 lots we owned at the end of the fourth quarter.
Approximately 37% of these were 80% or more finished 14% had 30% to 80% of the improvements already in place and the remaining 49% have less than 30% of the improvement dollars spent.
These percentages by category have remained relatively stable since the fourth quarter of 2010.
While our primary focus is on purchasing improved lots it's continuing to get more difficult at certain markets to find finished lots for sale at reasonable prices.
About 32% of the remaining newly identified lots we've purchased or contracted to purchase are lots where it makes economic sense to do some level of land development and we continue to complete land development on sections of our legacy land as well.
A year ago we've mentioned our desire to sell 2 parcels of land in New Jersey.
One of those was located along the Hudson River at a site where we owned 4 contiguous parcels.
Although we were originally marketing 1 of the other contiguous sites that was valued at a higher price we ended up selling an adjacent site for $18 million in the fourth quarter.
At this point we're not marketing for sale any of the 3 remaining sites.
Now I'll turn to land related charges which can be seen on Slide 13.
We booked $49.3 million of land impairments in 19 communities during the fourth quarter.
$30 million or 61% of those charges were in just 3 communities in New Jersey.
There was also a community in California that accounted for most of the charges in the West.
Two of these 3 communities in New Jersey where we triggered impairments was caused by us lowering our net selling prices to keep our sales pace on budget and the third was related to the land sale.
Because our aggregate investment in New Jersey is greater than our other markets and our individual community investments in New Jersey are also higher than our company-wide average downward pricing pressure for New Jersey will typically result in higher dollar amount of impairments.
Additionally during the third quarter our walk away charges were $10.6 million which was spread across 22 communities throughout our markets $7.8 million or 74% of these charges were associated with 5 communities in New Jersey.
Turning to Slide 14 it shows $39 billion of cumulative land-related charges at the public homebuilders have taken since the beginning of 2006.
At $2.7 billion we've taken our fair share of land charges.
But relative to our size our charges seem to be in line with the other builders.
Our investment in land optioned deposits were $21.4 million on October 31 2011 with $19.7 million in cash deposits and the other $1.7 million of deposits being held by letters of credit.
Additionally we have another $10.6 million invested in predevelopment expenses.
Turning to Slide 15 we show our mothballed lots broken out by geographic segment.
In total we have 7 421 mothballed lots within 59 communities that were mothballed as of October 31st.
And on this slide we break those lots out by geographic segment.
The book value at the end of the fourth quarter for these remaining mothballed lots was $151 million net of an impairment balance of $499 million.
We are carrying these mothballed lots at 23% of their original value.
Looking at all of our consolidated communities and the aggregate including mothballed communities we have an inventory book value of $968 million net of $787.2 million of impairments which were recorded on 150 of our communities.
Of the properties that have been impaired we're carrying them at 25% of their pre-impaired value.
Now turning to Slide 16 primarily due to the increased community count on a sequential and year-over-year basis the number of started unsold homes excluding models and unconsolidated joint ventures increased.
We ended the fourth quarter with 811 started and unsold homes.
This translates to 4.2 started and unsold homes per active selling community which is lower than our long-term average of about 4.8 unsold homes per community.
Another area of discussion for the quarter is related to our current and deferred tax asset valuation allowance.
At the end of the fourth quarter the valuation allowance in the aggregate was $899 million.
We view this as a very significant asset not currently reflected on our balance sheet and have taken steps to protect it.
We expect to be able to reverse this allowance after we generate consecutive years of solid profitability and can continue to project solid profitability.
When the reversal does occur we expect the remaining allowance to be added back to our shareholders' equity to further strengthen our balance sheet.
Today we could issue more than $125 million additional shares of common stock per cash without limiting our ability to utilize our NOLs.
This has not changed from what we reported last quarter.
We ended the fourth quarter with a total shareholders' deficit of $497 million.
If you add back the total valuation allowance as we've done in Slide 17 our total shareholders' equity would be $402 million.
Let me reiterate that the tax asset valuation allowance is for GAAP purposes only.
For tax purposes our tax assets maybe carried forward for 20 years from incurrence and we expect to utilize those tax loss carryforwards as we generate profits in the future.
For the first $1.9 billion of pretax profits we generate we will not have to pay federal income taxes.
Now let me update you briefly on the mortgage markets and our mortgage finance operation.
We believe the mortgage underwriting pendulum has swung too far to the side of caution.
We find ourselves in a position where excessively strict underwriting criteria is preventing someone who would have received a loan in the days prior to the advent of sub-prime and all pay from getting the mortgage loan today.
We believe that the mortgage industry needs to go back to rational and responsible lending environment where lenders are not afraid to give a loan to someone with compensating factors.
In October the conforming loan limits for FHA VA Fannie and Freddie Mac were reduced.
Just before Thanksgiving conforming loan limits for FHA were reinstated to a maximum of $729 750.
FHA's reinstatement is helpful in making sure that potential buyers can qualify for mortgages.
We would have liked to have seen higher loan limits reinstated for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac as well but given the state of affairs in DC we're happy that at least FHA loan limits were raised.
Turning to Slide 18.
You can see here the credit quality of our mortgage customers continues to be strong with an average FICO score of 736.
For all of fiscal 2011 our mortgage company captured 77% of our non-cash homebuying customers.
Turning to Slide 19 here we show a breakout of all the various loan types originated by our mortgage operations in all of fiscal 2011 compared to all of fiscal 2010.
47.2% of originations were FHA/VA during fiscal 2011 only slightly less than the 49.3% we saw during all of fiscal 2010.
Let me update you quickly about what's happening with our loan repurchase requests we're receiving from various banks.
We continue to believe that the vast majority of repurchase request that we've received are unjustified.
On Slide 20 you'll see our payments from fiscal 2008 to fiscal 2011.
In 2011 our repayments were only $1 million.
During the fourth quarter we received only 2 repurchase inquires.
This brought the quarterly average to fiscal 2011 to '10 repurchase inquires which was much less than 2010's quarterly average of about 25 inquires.
It is our policy to estimate and reserve potential losses when we sell loans to investors.
All of the above losses had been adequately reserved for previous periods.
At the end of the year our reserve for loan repurchases and make whole requests were $5 million which we believe is adequate for our exposure.
To date repurchase has not been a significant program but we will continue to monitor this issue closely.
Our cancellation rates remain at normal levels.
Our cancellation rate for the fourth quarter was 21%.
This was lower than the 24% we reported from last year's fourth quarter.
If you look back on a quarterly basis to the beginning of 2003 as we've done on Slide #21 the 21% number that we've reported for the fourth quarter is fairly typical.
Turning to Slide 22.
It shows our debt maturities schedule pro forma for the debt exchange and the debt repurchases that we've made in the open market through the end of October.
Subsequent to the end of our fourth quarter we announced the successful completion of our exchange offer.
$142 million of unsecured debt that originally matured in 2014 and 2015 was exchanged to a new 5% secured note that matures in 2021.
And $53 million of unsecured debt that originally matures in 2016 and 2017 was exchanged into a new 2% secured note that matures also in 2021.
During the fourth quarter we repurchased $25.6 million of our bonds for $14 million in cash and paid $1.1 million for accrued interest.
After making these repurchases and paying $14.2 million of cash consideration and $3.3 million for accrued interest as component of our exchange offer we have approximately $157 million of capacity left to repurchase additional bonds.
The combined exchange offer and the repurchases we've made we have reduced our annual interest costs by $11.6 million.
We felt comfortable with our liquidity before the exchange and we feel even better about it now that it's done.
Today we only have $53 million of debt that matures through the end of 2014 and $137 million of debt that matures between now and the end 2015.
At the end of October after having spent approximately $95 million in cash in the fourth quarter to purchase 550 lots and on land development across the company we ended the year with $302 million of cash including $57.7 million of homebuilding restricted cash used to collateralize letters of credit.
The amount of homebuilding restricted cash used to collateralize letters of credit has steadily declined from about $135 million at the end of fiscal 2009 to the current level of $57.7 million.
Our focus will remain at keeping a minimum total cash balance at quarter end within our range of $170 million to $245 million with no single quarter falling between $170 million.
We believe that we have adequate liquidity to reinvest in sufficient land to increase our community count and deliveries as well as repay the debt that matures between now and the end of 2015.
Additionally we recognized the need to repair our balance sheet.
As the homebuilding market recovers and we return to solid profitability we should be able to issue equity at higher prices than today reduced leverage and refinance our 2016 and 2017 maturities.
I'll turn it back to Ara for some brief closing comments.
Thanks Larry.
I just wanted to reiterate a few highlights from the quarter.
For starters the combination of the debt exchange offer and the open market purchases that we have made have given us additional run way in terms of debt maturities and have also lowered our annual interest expenses by about $11.6 million both are meaningful improvements from where we were at the end of the third quarter.
While not yet positive we had a solid quarter from a cash flow perspective at negative $7.9 million in our fourth quarter after spending $95 million on land and land development.
We are working hard to improve cash flow further.
Finally for the first time since the slowdown began we had a slight -- granted slight increase in the number of net contracts for the full year.
Recently our trend in year-over-year contract is showing even higher gains.
This increase in net contracts coupled with a 19% increase in backlog indicates that we're about to turn the corner on the delivery and revenue side of the equation.
We are hopeful that our continued growth in community count and soon revenues combined with improving gross margins will lead us back to profitability.
That concludes our prepared remarks and we'll now be glad to open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just a little bit more on the gross margins if possible.
As you said you're expecting as of I believe it was mid-September as of your last call 16.8% and it came in at 15.5% that was still slightly better than the third quarter and you pointed that the big difference was just increase in incentives or lowered pricing.
But on a sequential basis were you expecting less incentives to drive the improvement? Because obviously on a sequentially you did a little bit better which on the surface might imply steady incentives.
So I was wondering if you could kind of maybe go a little bit more granular and where there particular geographic regions that really drove the shortfall or I guess you've had issues in New Jersey.
Anything -- a little more detail would be helpful.
Sure.
Well first as typically the case.
It's never one item.
It was certainly primarily driven by increased incentives and I'd say that was fairly uniform I guess maybe a little bit more in northern California and New Jersey a little bit in DC we also had and we didn't mention it specifically but there certainly have been some appraisal issues throughout the industry and we felt that in the fourth quarter and what makes that challenging is a lot of that really only comes to light at the closing table and that's particularly with VA mortgages which continue to be our biggest problem on the appraisal side.
And largely mix can also contribute.
So we were disappointed by it.
We were expecting a little bit more of a sequential gain.
We certainly hope we'll make up some ground a little later in this current fiscal year of 2012.
Research Division</strong> So but if incentives were up or worse than you were looking for but were they actually worse than the third quarter because again your gross margins did improve a little bit sequentially? Yes I'd say they increased a bit from the third quarter in general.
It's hard to be really specific because as you know nothing is quite uniform.
But overall we had more incidences of incentives in the third quarter -- excuse me in the fourth quarter than the third.
Having said that it does feel a lot stronger in the last 6 weeks or so of sales.
Maybe -- I'm not sure frankly what I could attribute that to.
It's not as though the news is particularly better but we saw it in our sales that we released our November sales.
It feels a little more resilient than it was and we haven't quite felt the pricing pressures.
Having said that it's only a month or 6 weeks or so and it's not a particularly robust time in terms of the quantity of sales.
Nonetheless we're pleased by the current feeling.
Research Division</strong> And then there's the second question on land spend.
Given the cash position and I guess still a little bit above your targeted number.
Can you give us a sense of what you're looking for for 2012 and what type of community growth that can support? We're not really giving a projection on what we intend to spend.
I think the governor to our ability to continue to tie up land is going to be cash.
I think we've made it very clear over the last year or so on a quarterly basis and the story isn't changing this quarter.
If we see opportunities in markets that meet our underwriting criteria based on the then current home selling prices and the current home selling basis over the next couple of years we'll take advantage of those opportunities provided it doesn't [indiscernible] get below our cash target.
But we think we're also going to be generating cash coming in from home sale revenues.
It's both of those things coming in to play Michael.
Yes I mean overall we do expect that barring changes and conditions barring approval delays et cetera we do expect to be able to increase our delivery count in 2012 with the new communities and still stay within our cash targets.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Oppenheim with Credit Suisse.
This is actually William for Dan.
We've seen some companies exit measure areas.
How do you look at this and the trade-off between needing additional volume to generate cash? Is there a current [ph] materializes versus current profitability? Well it is something we discuss regularly.
The issue is really efficiency and would we get more efficiency a better percentage of SG&amp;A and therefore bottom line by dropping the market or 2 at the moment we don't think so.
It's something we always or continually evaluating but at the moment we think the footprint is the right one and gives us the best opportunity for buying new land.
And then one more question on the land how competitive is the market for land nowadays? Has it been getting easy or more difficult since the last conference call? I'd say about the same.
Your next question comes from the line of David Goldberg with UBS.
Research Division</strong> My first question was actually about the comments about November and some of the pick up that we saw.
I mean if I just do the back of the envelop math here right? It's 314 sales -- 325 sales on 214 communities which is about 1.5 sales per community.
So just to make sure I kind of understand when you say things have picked up a little bit is it a sequential comment or is that versus normal seasonal trends? And does that kind of include traffic picking up or is it quality of traffic maybe the same traffic but quality is coming up a little bit? It really is compared to seasonal trends.
If you go back to Slide 4 you kind of get the feeling of the seasonality.
If you look -- first of all last year to the yellow bars you see a significant drop-off from the August September October period in yellow to November and that's a more typical seasonal pattern.
We certainly did have a drop-off in November but it just wasn't as significant so that gives us a little positive feeling about it.
I'll just say from our perspective November is a time that historically sales slowdown as we approach Thanksgiving things slowdown.
And this year we've not seen as dramatic a slowdown as we have seen in recent prior years.
So from our perspective it feels pretty good and I'll just tell you that we're kind of ahead of our own internal expectations.
So that's really where we're coming from.
Saying that the market feels a little bit better than we would have expected.
Research Division</strong> And with that there's no change in the quality of those buyers? I mean they're all -- you're not worry about their ability to qualify when they eventually come to closing the home? They're all pretty good credit quality and not...
Well we're always concerned.
Research Division</strong> You know what I'm saying but no more concern than you would normally do in this environment? Quality is the same as it was.
Having said that mortgage qualification particularly on the lower end continues to be a challenge.
And it's something we'd hope the administration in Capitol Hill can pay a little attention to because we do think there are qualified buyer that are being denied with the stringent rules in today's market.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just my follow-up question was on the actuarial charge the $6.3 million increase in the construction to stack reserve did that relate to any kind of specific problem you guys could identify or was it more just kind of higher charges over a period of time generally? Or is it something that we might see continue to kind of increase or...
This is our overall claims history there's no particular it's not related to Chinese drywall or any particular defect.
It's just the overall kind of claim history and how an actuarial kind of analyzed this.
And as we said in our comments in the past several years.
In fact I could probably go back even more than several and say that we do not have to take any charges.
So our methodologies have worked fine.
For whatever reason we had a few more instances of claims not related to any particular defect that caused us to take roughly a $6 million additional construction defect.
Research Division</strong> And just to emphasize that it's not a particular vintage either it's not like home is built in here? No.
Your next question comes from the line of Alan Ratner with Zelman &amp; Associates.
Research Division</strong> Expanding on Mike's plan on the gross margin a little bit I guess what was probably even more concerning to us rather than the absolute level was the fact that you did give that guidance on the gross margin almost halfway through your quarter and now thinking about your deliveries.
You obviously had about 6 weeks deliveries already.
To go off of plus you had a pretty good backlog which even if the appraisal issue you highlighted were pretty significant.
I wouldn't expect to see that big of a miss there relative to what you would have been expecting in September.
So I guess from a bigger picture standpoint maybe you can comment a little bit or give us a little bit more comfort around kind of your real-time information from the corporate standpoint and communicating with the local divisions.
Because -- and obviously you're managing to a pretty tight cash flow guidance here and the need for real-time information is pretty important in terms of how you allocate your land spend.
So to see that big of a miss it's kind of almost opens up the possibility that there's a lack of information flow between divisions and corporate.
So I was hoping you could help alleviate some of those concerns and maybe comment a bit on that.
Well first just to put it into perspective in terms of the effect on cash flow a 1.5% miss and it was a little less than that roughly $300 million of revenues is about $4.5 million of cash flow.
So relative to the overall scheme of things it didn't have a significant impact on our cash flow projections.
It was more affected by deliveries which were within the range.
Nonetheless as I've said we're not happy of the shrinkage at the end and going into the quarter we felt a little more confident.
Just to answer your question more specifically in terms of the real-time nature of our information we are in the middle of a systems conversion.
Most of our company is now converted.
We've got a few divisions left to go but the majority is on our new system which gives us a little better guidance in terms of gross margins for anticipated closings.
Generally speaking we focus on a monthly update so when we are a month into the quarter we would have been using data just before the quarter began but we really were just disappointed by the next few months of closings in terms of what it took to get the last minute sales and some of the appraisal issues that resulted in lower closing proceeds.
One other issue is gross margins by community vary widely.
So if mix changes just a little bit the amount of margin that we get on average can change more substantially than you might think.
So mix by itself can move the margin if we're getting more deliveries from community A and less from community B so to speak can have an impact as well so it's a combination of things.
We're very comfortable with the quality of our data.
We're very comfortable that we have real insight into what we can expect to have happened.
As Ara mentioned we refresh our projections with each of our divisions on the bottom line [ph] basis every month.
So we have good trend data as well.
Your next question comes from the line of Nishu Sood with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Rob Hansen on for Nishu.
We wanted to ask about your JV holdings entity.
The one that was -- the issue of the new 2% and 5% notes and I think at one point you held somewhere around $130 million of cash in that entity.
So I just wanted to get kind of an idea of what assets are helping that entity now and how much cash you have in there? I don't think we actually put it in place until the beginning of our first quarter of 2012.
So I think your assumption would be that there's $130 million of cash roughly and $50 million of equity interests in joint venture which is exactly what we said when we are out marketing the notes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just overall how do you plan on managing the liquidity in terms of a operating cash burn perspective and land spend between the JV holdings entity and then the main operating subsidiaries? First thing I'd say is we're going to carefully manage it.
But the real thing is we're going to balance cash and make sure that we have sufficient cash in both of our kind of walled off secured groups to take care of all of their needs.
And we can do that by investing more or less in the old secured group or more or less in the new secured group which impacts their cash balance and the other one's cash balance.
And we're looking at those numbers and very comfortable that we'll do that.
Initially there's probably more cash in the secured group than we feel is need.
And you can expect over time for us to make investments using that cash to buy new community or land parcels that we'll build houses on in the near term.
As those investments generate cash we'll decide to invest more in the new secured group but at the same time we'll make investments in the old secure group as well.
But the eye will be to kind of balance the cash as the cash needs are projected.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Casella with Imperial.
LLC Research Division</strong> If you could -- your SG&amp;A and [indiscernible].
Unfortunately you're breaking up.
LLC Research Division</strong> Regarding your SG&amp;A I guess how do you guys think about initial cost reduction efforts.
I know it's down pretty significantly from the peak but is there any room for further cost reductions going forward? Well I think we mentioned.
Clearly we think our SG&amp;A costs will be lower during the subsequent quarters in '12 than they were in the fourth quarter because of the unusual charges.
Overall though as you saw headcounts continue to reduce as we work on our organizational structure and processes to get as efficient as possible with the volume of transactions.
Your next question comes from the line of Lee Brading with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I know you don't want to give any guidance per se on the land spend but I was wondering if you have another way to think about it.
This past quarter you noted that you generated free cash flow and essentially offset that with the land spend.
Does that -- and you mentioned also cash as a governor but should we look at potentially that free cash flow as a governor on the land spend or is that going to vary quarter-to-quarter? Again it's a combination of making sure and certainly free cash flow flows into this making sure that a we're not going to spend on land unless we find opportunities that meet our strict underwriting criteria.
Frankly we would have loved to have gotten down closer to $245 million top-end of our range rather than be higher than that.
But we didn't find the opportunity that allowed us to do it.
So that's the first governor is do we find an opportunities that meet our underwriting criteria.
Second governor obviously is cash which cash balance and obviously cash flow on a quarterly basis plays closely into that.
I mean they're inter-related they're not something you could separate.
Yes I mean overall they're very related.
Obviously we look at the cash balance as the key governor and try to project the closings we've got coming up trying to project the land spend we'd like to do and just balance those all the time to make sure we've always got plenty of liquidity excess.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got you.
And just for your perspective you've bought back about $15 million in bonds.
And you mentioned that you have I think $157 million in capacity to purchase more bonds.
And just going forward how are you evaluating that? And was that more of a one-time anomaly or do you expect to continue to evaluate that going quarter-to-quarter here? Certainly I wouldn't call it a one-time anomaly given our track record on what we've done in terms of buying back debt over the past 4 5 years we've been pretty regular at it.
So we periodically evaluate it and we will.
If we see opportunities that we think makes sense to buy back debt given our liquidity position at the time at cash balance et cetera we may buy some in the future or we may choose not to but it is something we constantly evaluate and I think we have a pretty good track record of doing it periodically.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question is a follow-up question from the line of Michael Rehaut with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just getting back to the gross margins for a moment did you -- and apologies if I didn't hear this -- describe the differential between newer communities and older communities in terms of the gross margin generation? We didn't describe it.
And we just don't break it out that way.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well I guess it kind of leads into the second question which is just looking at the absolute level of overall gross margins being I think at the lower end of the peer group here and just trying to get a sense of why that might be? I think kind of related to that when you look at the option walk always in terms of the lots it looks like throughout the different quarters you're walking away from anywhere from 50% to 90% of the net additions.
And I'm just curious about the walk always if those are primarily more newly purchased stuff that's been signed up in the last couple of years and -- because it just seems like there's a lot of turnover there...
Sure I can address that.
First most of our walk always occurred during the investigation period before there's any dollars at risk.
So a contract is signed we report that immediately.
But we typically have 45 days or so to investigate everything having to do with the property.
Everything from entitlements to improvement cost to fees et cetera.
And often times during the investigation we find something that causes us not to proceed.
That's where the overwhelming majority of the walkaways occur.
Regarding your first question on gross margin first it is important that you compare apples and apples cost categories.
In our case and this is slightly different from peer-to-peer we deduct commissions both internal and external commissions as part of our cost of goods sold and therefore it lowers our gross margin.
So when you compare to peers you have to check to see what they're practice is.
That being said we are disappointed in the gross margin not quite as bad as it might appear before you do that adjustment but we are certainly hoping that we're going to show better improvement.
We showed sequential improvement for the last 3 quarters but we hope we're going to show more sequential improvement during fiscal '12.
Your next question comes from the line of Howard Weinberg with UBS.
Was wondering if you could talk about land holdings and you guys provide great color on the amount of land you have by region.
But as we know that land spend is pretty local and that way you sell the homes making sure they have the homes in the right places.
For your land spending that you're currently doing right now how much of that land spend is for -- to support 2012 and 2013 growth versus longer term? We are definitely focused on shorter-term land positions.
We don't think it's appropriate given the amount of capital we have to make investments in longer-term positions.
We certainly have -- and by the way our average targeted absorption pace on our purchases is about a 2-year hold or holding period.
It's about 2 years on average from when we start sales and deliveries.
We'd like it to be even shorter.
We just have to balance that with the opportunities that are out in the marketplace.
We certainly do have some older land holdings that are longer horizons time horizons but our focus today is shorter-term and we think that's a critical component being able to allow us to grow with the capital we have in place.
We need a higher inventory turnover and it certainly is a focus.
And then just a second question did you make any bond purchases subsequent to quarter end? We've not publicly disclosed what we've done since quarter end.
And we never do.
Your next follow-up question comes from the line of Andrew Casella with Imperial.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just going back to Slide 12 where you break out your own lots as a percentage of development costs spend if you're investing in I guess shorter-term projects why haven't we seen I guess the 80% above developed bucket kind of increase versus from prior quarter's? Well we still even though they're shorter term some of the purchases still require some land development.
I mean the deliveries were coming out of that bucket.
So that bucket gets depleted every quarter by the number of deliveries.
I mean having said that overall it's been relatively stable since the end of the prior year.
LLC Research Division</strong> So I guess your acquisitions are the short-term projects but not necessarily fully developed to where they would be classified in that bucket right away? That's exactly right.
And at this time I'd like to turn the presentation back over to Mr.
Hovnanian for closing remarks.
Great.
Well thank you very much.
As I've said we're pleased by a variety of aspects of our quarter.
Certainly we're not pleased with the gross margin.
We hope to be making improvements on that front as well.
And we think a combination of some projected or I should say hope for improvements on our gross margin with the projected increase in deliveries from the new communities should help our overall performance and we'll look forward to reporting that in subsequent quarters.
Thank you.
This concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you for participating and have a nice day.
All parties you may now disconnect.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for Hovnanian Enterprises Fiscal 2012 First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
An archive of the webcast will be available after the completion of the call and run for 12 months.
This conference is being recorded for rebroadcast.
[Operator Instructions] Management will make some opening remarks about the fourth quarter results and then open up the line for questions.
The company will also be webcasting a slide presentation along with the opening comments from management.
The slides are available on the investors page of the company's website at www.khov.com.
Those listeners who would like to follow along should log on to the website at this time.
Before we begin I would like to turn the call over to Jeff O'Keefe Vice President Investor Relations.
Jeff please go ahead.
Thank you.
Before I turn the call over to Ara I would like to read the following about forward-looking statements.
All statements made during this conference call that are not historical facts should be considered as forward-looking statements.
Such statements involve known and unknown risks uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results performance or achievements of the company to be materially different from any future results performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements.
Such risks uncertainties and other factors include but are not limited to changes in general and economic and industry and business conditions and impacts of the sustained homebuilding downturn; adverse weather and other environmental conditions and natural disasters; changes in market conditions and seasonality of the company's business; changes in home prices and sales activity in the markets where the company builds homes; government regulation including regulations concerning development of land the homebuilding sales and customer financing process tax laws and the environment; fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of mortgage financing; shortages in and price fluctuations of raw materials and labor; the availability and cost of suitable land and improved lots; levels of competition; availability of financing to the company; utility shortages and outages or rate fluctuations; levels of indebtedness and restrictions on the company's operations and activities imposed by the agreements governing the company's outstanding indebtedness; the company's sources of liquidity; changes in credit ratings; availability of net operating loss carryforwards; operations through joint ventures with third parties; product liability litigation warranty claims and claims by mortgage investors; successful identification and integration of acquisitions; significant influence of the company's controlling stockholders; changes in tax laws affecting the after-tax costs of owning a home; geopolitical risks terrorist attacks and other acts of war; and other factors described in detail in the company's annual report on the Form 10-K for the year ended October 31 2011.
Except as otherwise required by applicable securities laws we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events changed circumstances or any other reason.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ara Hovnanian our Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer.
Ara please go ahead.
Good morning and thank you for participating in today's call to review the results of our first quarter ended January 31 2012.
Joining me today from the company are Larry Sorsby Executive Vice President and CFO; Brad O'Connor Vice President Chief Accounting Officer and Corporate Controller; David Valiaveedan Vice President Finance and Treasurer; and Jeff O'Keefe Vice President of Investor Relations.
On Slide 3 you can see a brief summary of our first quarter results and comparisons to the prior year's first quarter.
As you can see our net contract community count net contracts per community deliveries backlog and total revenues all increased year-over-year in the first quarter of 2012.
This is the first quarterly year-over-year increase in total revenues since the third quarter of 2006.
After 21 straight quarters of decline it feels good to reverse this trend.
We are hopeful that our positive sales results will continue and drive additional revenue growth going forward.
As we have said previously our path to returning to profitability is very related on our ability to grow the top line.
Our net loss was less this quarter than it was in the year-ago period.
From a macroeconomic perspective things definitely feel better right now.
There are more positive trends than negative trends grabbing the headlines.
Mortgage rates remain low.
The energy sector is booming.
There are fewer discussions about fears of a double-dip recession.
Consumer confidence is improving.
And there is pent-up demand on the sidelines right now.
The key to unlocking this pent-up demand is job growth.
And there is some evidence of a slight improvement in the labor market which bodes well for our industry if it continues.
With this economic backdrop our net contracts have improved significantly.
If you turn to Slide 4 you see that on an absolute basis net contracts increased 27% in the first quarter to 1 079 homes and the second quarter is off to an even better start.
We signed 528 net contracts in February of '12 a 38% increase when compared to 384 net contracts in February a year ago with the same number of weekends.
In addition to our community count increase year-over-year we also saw solid increases in net contracts per community.
Slide 5 shows monthly net contracts per community for the past year.
Each month in the first quarter posted similar year-over-year increases in net contracts per community.
8 of the past 12 months have shown year-over-year increases in net contracts per community.
Slide 6 shows a 17% increase for the first quarter in net contracts per community followed by February which registered an even stronger gain of 26%.
Let me emphasize that there were no coordinated national sales promotions that led to this increased net contracts during the month of February.
Many of our divisions did their typical seasonal local marketing campaigns but these were not campaigns that reduced the net selling price or adversely affected our gross margins in our February contracts.
During each of the past 4 months our sales results have exceeded our internal expectations.
While we are pleased with how the spring selling season has kicked off it's still too early to say how this is going to play out.
We will be watching sales closely as I know all in the industry will.
Our net sales per community increased 19% for the first 4 months of 2012.
If we were to see that same increase for the entire year that would put us on a pace of 25.3 contracts per community and you see that in the red bar on Slide 7.
This doesn't exactly catapult us to historical -- to our historical normalized average pace of 45 contracts per year which you see on the left-hand side of this slide.
However 25.3 contracts per community per year would be the best sales pace we've experienced since 2006.
During the first quarter we were able to both increase our community count by 9% year-over-year as you see on Slide 8 and increase our sales pace per community by 17%.
These are the type of results we need in order to continue to achieve our top line growth and return to profitability.
As we close out of legacy communities and open new communities our mix of newly identified actively selling communities to total communities continues to rise.
With the increased investment in communities and backlog it's not surprising that we ended the quarter with more capital deployed.
Nonetheless our cash position of $201.7 million including cash used to collateralize letters of credit is around the midpoint of our cash target of $170 million to $245 million.
Our future investment decisions will be made within the confines of this cash target range.
Given the strong net contract trends and the growth in backlog we expect to see our revenue increase in the future quarters which should increase our ability to generate additional cash flow.
Turn now to Slide 9 which shows our annual gross margin on the left-hand side of the slide and quarterly gross margins on the right-hand side of the slide.
While our first quarter was down slightly compared to the same quarter last year you can see on the right-hand side that our quarterly gross margin has slowly moved up over the last 3 quarters including a 100-basis-point sequential improvement from the fourth quarter 2011 compared to the first quarter of 2012.
Home prices remained stable throughout the first quarter and continued to hold in February.
During the first quarter the average price of our net contracts increased 3% including unconsolidated joint ventures and decreased 1% excluding unconsolidated joint ventures.
In both cases the price movements are related to product and geographic mix rather than our ability to increase prices or our need to offer incentives.
At the end of the first quarter 76% of our wholly owned communities that were open for sale were newly identified communities that we controlled after January of '09.
58% of our consolidated deliveries in the first quarter were from newly identified land which is higher than the 44% of deliveries in fiscal '11 from new land.
Given the current number of new communities we would expect the mix for all of 2012 to be higher than it was in 2011.
Since many of these newly identified communities were recently opened they will not begin to deliver homes until 2012 -- later in 2012.
As long as we see no adverse changes in the market conditions particularly with respect to home prices this mix should result in our gross margins increasing during 2012.
During the first quarter of 2012 there were $16.9 million of impairment reversals related to home deliveries compared to $25.5 million of impairment reversals in the first quarter of 2011.
While a gross margin of 16.5% is much improved over the last 3 quarters of fiscal '11 it is still well below normalized levels which were in the 20% range as shown on the left-hand side of the slide.
On the right-hand side of Slide 10 the bar shows that the absolute dollar of total SG&amp;A in the first quarter of 2012 declined 16.4% compared to the first quarter of last year.
When you look at total SG&amp;A as a percentage of total revenues as we have shown underneath the bars on the right-hand side of the slide it has improved from 21.9% during last year's first quarter to 17.1% during the first quarter this year.
These gains are more meaningful because the first quarter is typically the weakest quarter with respect to operating leverage.
Additionally we expect further improvements in total SG&amp;A as a percentage of total revenues during fiscal 2012.
It's noteworthy that we were able to deliver 13% more homes during this year's first quarter with 4% fewer associates than we did in last year's first quarter.
This further validates our strategy of gaining efficiency and top line growth.
While SG&amp;A has come down in both absolute terms and on a percentage basis it's still much higher than our historical norm of 10% or 11%.
These higher percentages remain despite steep reductions in our staffing levels.
As our revenues increase we expect to leverage these SG&amp;A expenses so that we gradually bring our SG&amp;A ratio down to a normalized level.
Now I'll turn it over to Larry who will discuss our inventory liquidity and mortgage operations as well as a few other topics.
Thanks Ara.
Let me start with our efforts to reload our land position.
Turning to Slide 11.
It shows the cumulative balance of new land parcels that we've controlled since January of 2009.
So far we have purchased or optioned approximately 17 000 lots.
The land that we've purchased or optioned met or exceeded our investment threshold of a 25% unlevered IRR based on the then current home selling prices and no change in sales pace for the next couple of years.
We continue to seek land opportunities in all of our markets and we've had success in finding new deals that made economic sense in most of our markets.
As you can see from Slide 12 after seeing a steady flow of gross new land and lot purchase agreements throughout fiscal 2011 during the first quarter of fiscal 2012 we did experience a fall-off of new land and lot purchases.
The figures aren't as dramatic on a net basis where we contracted for 200 home sites in both the first and second quarters of last year compared to 100 home sites this year.
However we have noticed a very recent pick-up in new land and lot activity and are optimistic that we would return to net land and lot acquisition levels similar to what we experienced in 2011.
During the first quarter we optioned 450 new lots and walked away from about 350 newly identified lots.
The net results for the first quarter was that our total lots purchased or controlled since January of 2009 increased by about 100 lots sequentially from the fourth quarter of 2011.
During the first quarter we purchased 600 newly identified lots in 81 communities.
In addition we purchased about 90 lots from legacy options.
In total we spent approximately $74.1 million of cash in the quarter to purchase approximately 690 lots and to develop land across the company.
Turning to Slide 13 you'll see our owned and optioned land position broken out by our publicly reported segments.
Based on trailing 12-month deliveries we own 4.6 years worth of land.
However if you exclude the 7 094 mothballed lots we own only 2.8 years worth of land based on the low delivery rate of the past 4 quarters.
Our owned and optioned lot positions decreased sequentially by about 1 200 lots in the first quarter.
We purchased approximately 690 lots during the first quarter which was offset by 889 deliveries by 100 lots from land sales and by a regulatory approval change that reduced the number of lots in 1 community by 140 home sites.
On the optioned side of the equation we walked away from 358 optioned lots purchased about 690 optioned lots signed new option contracts for an additional 470 lots during the quarter and reduced lots in 1 community by about 200 lots due to site planning changes to optimize land values and obtain entitlements.
We continue to be disciplined in only taking down optioned contracts that make economic sense.
At the end of the first quarter 70% of our optioned lots were newly identified lots 27% of our owned lots were newly identified lots and if you exclude mothballed lots 44% of our owned lots are newly acquired.
When you combine our optioned and owned land together 41% of the total lots that we control today are newly identified lots.
Excluding mothballed lots 57% of our total lots are newly identified lots.
Turning to Slide 14.
We show a breakdown of these 17 866 lots we owned at the end of the first quarter.
Approximately 39% of these were 80% or more finished 13% had 30% to 80% of the improvements already in place and the remaining 48% have less than 30% of the improvement dollar spent.
These percentages by category have remained relatively stable since the fourth quarter of 2010.
While our primary focus is on purchasing improved lots it's continuing to get more difficult in most of our markets to find finished lots for sale at reasonable prices.
Therefore more of our land acquisitions require that we complete land development.
About 27% of the remaining newly identified lots we've purchased or contracted to purchase are lots where it makes economic sense to do some level of land development and we continue to complete land development on sections of our legacy land as well.
Now I'll turn to our land-related charges which can be seen on Slide 15.
We booked $3.1 million of land impairments in 11 communities during the first quarter.
Additionally during the first quarter our walk away charges were only $200 000 which were spread across 7 communities throughout our markets.
Our investment in land option deposits were $25.6 million at January 31 2012 with $24.4 million in cash deposits and the other $1.2 million of deposits being held by letters of credit.
Additionally we have another $5.1 million invested in predevelopment expenses.
Turning to Slide #16 we show our mothballed lots broken out by geographic segment.
In total we have 7 094 mothballed lots within 57 communities that were mothballed as of January 31 2012.
The book value at the end of the first quarter for these remaining mothballed lots was $138 million net of an impairment balance of $494 million.
We are carrying these mothballed lots at 22% of their original value.
Eventually as the market recovery that we're beginning to feel gains some momentum we will be able to justify returning these mothballed lots into production.
These would provide us with a rich supply of lots at a low-cost basis.
Looking at all of our consolidated communities in the aggregate including mothballed communities we have an inventory book value of $979 million net of $768.5 million of impairments which were recorded on 135 of our communities.
Of the properties that have been impaired we're carrying them at 25% of their pre-impaired value.
Now turning to Slide 17.
The number of started unsold homes excluding models and unconsolidated joint ventures decreased sequentially.
We ended the first quarter with 779 started unsold homes.
This translates to 4 started unsold homes per active selling community which is lower than our long-term average of about 4.8 unsold homes per community.
Another area of discussion for the quarter is related to our current and deferred tax asset valuation allowance.
At the end of the first quarter the valuation allowance in the aggregate was $905.2 million.
We view this as a very significant asset not currently reflected on our balance sheet and have taken steps to protect it.
We expect to be able to reverse this allowance after we generate consecutive years of solid profitability and can continue to project solid profitability going forward.
When the reversal does occur we expect the remaining allowance to be added back to our shareholders' equity further strengthening our balance sheet.
Today we could issue more than 125 million additional shares of common stock for cash without limiting our ability to utilize our NOLs.
This has not changed from what we reported last quarter.
We ended the first quarter with total shareholders' deficit of $514 million.
If you add back the total valuation allowance as we've done on Slide 18 our total shareholders' equity would be $391 million.
Let me reiterate that the tax asset valuation allowance is for GAAP purposes only.
For tax purposes our tax assets may be carried forward for 20 years from incurrence and we expect to utilize those tax loss carryforwards as we generate profits in the future.
For the first $1.9 billion of pretax profits we generate we will not have to pay federal income taxes.
Now let me update you briefly on our mortgage operations.
Turning to Slide 19 you can see here that credit quality of our mortgage customers continues to be strong with an average FICO score of 732.
For the first quarter of fiscal 2012 our mortgage company captured 79% of our non-cash home-buying customers.
Turning to Slide 20.
Here we show a breakout of all the various loan types originated by our mortgage operations in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 compared to all of fiscal 2011.
45.8% of our originations were FHA/VA during the first quarter of fiscal 2012 only slightly less than the 47.2% we saw during all of fiscal 2011.
Regarding the repurchase requests from various banks we continue to believe that the vast majority of requests that we've received are unjustified.
On Slide 21 you'll see our payments from fiscal 2008 through the first quarter of fiscal 2012.
In the first quarter of 2012 our repayments were only $0.4 million on 2 loans.
During the first quarter of 2012 we received 13 repurchase inquiries which was slightly higher than the quarterly average of 10 repurchase inquiries for all of fiscal 2011.
It is our policy to estimate and reserve potential losses when we sell loans to investors.
All of the above losses have been adequately reserved for in previous periods.
At the end of the first quarter our reserves for loan repurchases and make whole requests were $6.4 million which we believe is adequate for our exposure.
To date mortgage repurchases have not been a significant problem but we will continue to monitor this issue closely.
Our cancellation rates remain at normal levels.
Our cancellation rate for the first quarter was 21%.
This was slightly lower than the 22% we have reported for last year's first quarter and identical to the 21% we reported for the fourth quarter of 2011.
If you look back on a quarterly basis to the 2003-2004 period as we've done on Slide 22 the 21% number that we've been -- that we've reported for the first quarter is fairly typical cancellation rate for us.
Turning to Slide 23.
It shows our debt maturity schedule through the end of January 2021 which takes into account the successful exchange offer and debt repurchase we completed early in the first quarter.
As we have reported in our 10-K we repurchased $44 million of our bonds for $20.5 million in cash including accrued interest during the first quarter.
After making these repurchases and paying $14.2 million of cash consideration as a component of our exchange offer we have approximately $138 million of restricted payment capacity left to repurchase additional bonds.
We felt comfortable with our liquidity before the exchange and we feel even better about it now that it's completed.
Today we have only $52 million of debt that matures before 2015 and an additional $84 million of debt that matures before 2016.
At the end of fiscal 2012 the first quarter we -- after having to spend approximately $74.1 million in cash during the quarter to purchase about 690 lots and on land development across the company and spending $42.6 million to complete both the debt exchange offer and debt repurchases we ended the quarter with $201.7 million of cash including $35.7 million of cash and homebuilding restricted cash used to collateralize letters of credit.
The amount of homebuilding restricted cash used to collateralize letters of credit has steadily declined from about $135 million at the end of fiscal 2009 to the current level of $35.7 million.
This reduction in restricted cash has obviously added to the productivity of our remaining cash balance.
However we do not expect restricted cash to decline as significantly in the future as it has declined over the past couple of years.
Our focus will remain at keeping a minimum total cash balance at quarter end within the range of $170 million to $245 million with no single quarter falling below $170 million.
However due to the $22 million sequential decrease in restricted cash utilized for letters of credit we are much more comfortable at the lower end of that range which we've provided previously.
We are just about at the midpoint of that range today at -- as of the end of the first quarter and believe that we have adequate liquidity to reinvest in sufficient land to increase our community count and deliveries as well as repay the debt that matures between now and the end of 2015.
Purchasing smaller land parcels resulting in faster inventory turns has been part of the formula that makes that achievable.
During the last week of February we had several small 3(a)(9) exchanges of discounted bonds for Hovnanian equity.
These transactions were completed within a few percents of the bid side of market pricing on the bonds and the stock was priced at the weighted average daily price on the day that we agreed to terms for each transaction.
In the aggregate we exchanged 1.2 million HOV shares for $4.8 million in the aggregate of our 2017 8 5/8% notes and our tangible equity unit amortizing notes.
While our stock price has improved over the last couple of months and we are more willing to consider completing a few 3(a)(9) exchanges we are only considering opportunities at or near market prices.
We continue to believe that as the homebuilding market recovers and we can return to solid profitability we should be able to issue equity at higher prices than today reduce leverage and refinance our 2016 and 2017 maturities.
I'll turn it back to Ara for a few closing comments.
Thanks Larry.
I know that many investors are concerned with our cash position.
We have said for over a year now that we wanted to be fully invested in land.
And for the first time we've gotten to the point where we ended the quarter with our cash in our cash target range.
These land investments resulted in our ability to increase community counts deliveries and contracts during our first quarter.
And assuming no change in market conditions they've set us up for additional growth this year.
Keep in mind that the first quarter is typically our weakest in terms of cash flow because of the low seasonal deliveries.
This year's first quarter was no exception.
However we are confident that deliveries and operating cash flow should improve in our later quarters barring a significant change in the current marketing conditions.
Operating within the confines of our cash target range we feel comfortable that we can continue to reinvest in land and grow our revenues as well as repay the debt that matures between now and the end of 2015.
That gives us time to refinance the 2016 debt and issue additional equity in a better market as Larry mentioned.
Our comfort is partially based on the fact that we are investing in new communities that generally have faster inventory turns.
These new communities are now starting to return the cash initially invested as well as a profit.
And at the same time we continue to liquidate our slower-turning legacy assets.
We recognize that some will extrapolate the first quarter's cash flow and be concerned about our liquidity.
Once again our internal models show improved cash flow in subsequent quarters particularly given our recent contract pace and deliveries from new communities that had consumed cash in the previous quarters.
Our outlook has given us the confidence to continue to invest in new land purchases to position ourselves for growth.
Further we have sufficient confidence to spend part of our cash on repurchasing debt at a discount over the last quarter as we outlined.
If the market changes and deteriorates further then there are a number of levers that we can pull to quickly increase our cash if we need to.
If you turn to the next slide you see some of the options that we could have.
We could delay or reduce land purchases or takedowns.
We could sell excess land.
We could enter into model sale leasebacks and we have many models out there.
We could enter into joint ventures both for new transactions and for some of our existing land deals.
We could enter into land banking relationships on again both new land transactions and some existing land.
We could issue equity for cash or issue equity for debt much like the 3(a)(9) exchanges that Larry mentioned that we executed last month.
We could limit our started unsold homes.
Or we could reduce land development spending.
This is not a complete list but it's meant to give you an idea of some of the potential alternatives if we face the need to more quickly raise our cash position.
Our recent upturn in contract pace has definitely given us further confidence that we are pursuing the correct strategy for our shareholders.
We look forward to reporting further growth and progress in the coming quarters as well as making investors feel even more comfortable with our liquidity.
That concludes our prepared remarks and we'll now be happy to open up the floor for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question will come from the line of Alan Ratner with Zelman &amp; Associates.
Research Division</strong> Ara and I guess Larry as well I appreciate the kind of walking through the cash targets and some of the levers you can pull in a situation where maybe the market doesn't accelerate like we're seeing some signs that it's doing.
But I guess I was hoping to ask a question kind of the other way and that's looking at your February orders and the 38% increase there.
Thinking about the cash that needs to go out the door to build up that backlog and assuming maybe the market is actually even stronger than some of the signs that we've been seeing over the past couple of months what would get to the point in terms of order growth where you would maybe have to bring that cash position below your -- the low end of that target in order to -- maybe on a short-term basis but in order to kind of build up that backlog? Or would you manage that target so strictly where even if you're pretty sure that cash is going to be coming back in the door 1 quarter or 2 down the road you would still pull those levers to remain within that target? Well as you know the increased orders work both sides on terms of cash generation.
On one side it takes a little more cash to produce the WIP.
On the other side to the extent we're delivering homes on land that we own it generates some significant cash flow.
And those two really work to counter each other.
At this point we're comfortable that we're going to stay within the targets even with the kind of pick-up that we've seen.
Research Division</strong> And then Larry would you be able to provide the split on your unrestricted cash balance between -- I believe you had some cash within the unrestricted subsidiary that's back in the secured notes versus what's at the I guess the parent or at least the K.
Hov subsidiary.
Yes that will be in the 10-Q but I think we have...
The cash amount that's in what we'll call a new secure group is $81 million.
Research Division</strong> And how freely can you move the cash back and forth within those 2 buckets? I mean cash is fungible.
So I mean obviously as we're buying new land parcels we make a conscious decision whether we are going to buy the land in the new secure group or the old secure group.
So if we have more cash in one or the other we'll make that land decision to purchase it in the one that has more cash than we think that it needs to have.
There's other levers that we pull as well but we're very comfortable that we can adequately manage the cash between the 2 secure groups.
Your next question will come from the line of Andrew Casella with Imperial Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Larry regarding the slide on your potential liquidity levers can you quantify I guess the opportunities that exist in selling excess land in model sale leasebacks and what investors could look forward to  if you were to have to pull those levers and what kind of cash it can generate? We're really not making a public projection on how much we might do of each one of those particular categories.
As Ara said we have quite a number of models on the books.
I think you can actually see that on one of the slides to give you a little bit of perspective of the number of models that we currently own.
So someone might be able to look that up as we go since it's a publicly disclosed number.
217 models.
217 models as an example.
But in terms of land sales and other things when we do land banking activities et cetera we can do that both on owned land as well as new land.
Those are not necessarily levers that we anticipate pulling.
It's just that -- it's kind of safety valves that are available to us if the market deteriorates and just something we can look at redeploying cash if we can get better returns doing something else with it.
LLC Research Division</strong> And is there a priority as far as which one of these you would rather do versus another option? We would look at the opportunities at the time that we decided to do it.
And whatever we thought was the best opportunity at that time we would pursue first.
Clearly we'd rather not defer land purchases since we'd like that for growth.
So some of the other alternatives would certainly be more attractive.
And things like model leasebacks or joint ventures can be -- or land banking opportunities -- could be better sources of capital for us.
We'd prefer not to issue much equity at these prices because we feel pretty confident about the direction we're going in and we'd rather issue more equity at higher prices.
But so if forced to prioritize I guess I'd say in that order: land banking lot model sales et cetera before some of the other choices.
I will mention we have had a few model sale leasebacks not many.
But there have been small investors that are happy to basically earn the return equivalent to their mortgage payments and carrying costs.
And those are good opportunities for us a fairly inexpensive source of capital right now.
I haven't added up the numbers but Jeff mentioned we have about 217 models out there I guess that we still own.
So if you multiply that by our average price somewhere around $300 000 I guess that's about $66 million on our average price.
Models tend to be slightly above our average price.
So that can be -- certainly can be a source of capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just one quick follow-up.
Larry as far as the balance in the new secure group on the cash side can you give us an insight as to what constitutes excess cash in one box versus the other? I mean can we infer that the unrestricted group is now at $80 million down from $120 million sequentially? Is that I guess -- can we read into that number at all? No not really.
I mean what we do is we look at the cash needs.
It depends on what kind of investments we make in each secure group.
I mean for example if we bought a raw piece of dirt in a new secure group and we were going to have to spend land development dollars on it in nearby quarters we would be able to project out what those cash needs were.
So it just depends on what investments are in there.
And we understand what the cash needs are in each of the individual secure groups and we're going to make sure that we have adequate cash in each one.
As another example there may come a time that we have only producing communities in one group or the other and they are going to be generating cash so we're comfortable with the cash balance being a lower number.
So we manage the company as one combined entity.
We understand we have to wall off the 2 secure groups and we've properly done so.
And we're going to manage the company as a single entity.
And that cash number may change from one quarter to the next as to how much is in each of the different secure groups.
Your next question will come from the line of Nishu Sood with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Rob Hansen on for Nishu.
Have you guys looked at -- if these current positive trends continue how much cash you would have to spend on land development this year? And I'm just kind of asking because you mentioned that you're going to have to do a little more land development but you also want to increase turns and buy these smaller plots of lands and turn them into cash as well.
So I guess what's going to be more impactful this year for you? We've factored in the land development spend in our projections.
Basically -- in the boom days you'd think of a parcel of 150 lots and develop 100 at a time.
Today we're much more resourceful with our capital.
And we will develop lots in very small increments and basically turn that asset even if it's a undeveloped land much more quickly than we had in the past.
So right now it's factored in.
If we were to find opportunities that were large parcels that needed a lot more development dollars upfront for those we would -- and we have -- sought joint venture partners as long as the returns are sufficient.
Having said that we haven't seen as many of the large opportunities as the small opportunities.
And since we've got the cash position we've been doing those wholly owned in the recent periods.
But we'd be happy to bring some to our partners and we've got some good experiences with them if we found the right opportunities.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just in terms of the February sales data how did the -- how did it look excluding JVs? And were there any parts of the country that significantly outperformed? Do you have that at your fingertips Jeff or not? Hold on one moment.
While Jeff is getting the without-JVs and with-JVs numbers -- I assume that's what he's digging up right now -- I'll just comment that the pick-up was pretty broad based in terms of product type and geographies.
If I had to pick on 2 markets that haven't quite joined in the resurgence as much as some of the others I might say Tampa and parts of New Jersey.
Other than that we've seen a pretty broad-based pick-up by geographies and product types.
Without JVs we're up about 30% in the month of February.
Your next question will come from the line of Michael Rehaut with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Jason Marcus in for Mike.
So my first question is regarding the sequential gross margin improvement.
I was wondering if you could give us a little bit more detail in terms of what the key drivers were there? And then also I think you mentioned that gross margin should improve year-over-year.
I was just wondering if the level that it's at now you think is -- is it sustainable? Or do you think that it can potentially improve from here? I guess I'll answer the second question first.
Is -- I think we said pretty clearly we expect gross margins to improve in 2012 so it wouldn't surprise me at all that it's going to improve above the level that we just reported.
Ara do you want to take the first part of the question? Yes.
As always it's a mix of everything a mix of which communities are selling a mix of the newer communities that are helping a little bit.
So it's really a -- the overall mix.
In general we're weeding through some of our older legacy communities.
We're weeding through some of the lower-profit communities and feeling some strength in the marketplace.
We also just haven't seen the pricing pressure that existed in prior quarters.
There are always anecdotal situations where you have to tweak concessions and that affects margins.
But we've also been having some anecdotal situations where we're raising prices not enough to say clearer trends but we're definitely seeing that a little more and that is clearly helping the overall gross margin situation.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the next question is just regarding new communities.
I was wondering if you could give us any color on how many net new communities you expect to add over the next several quarters? Yes it's just not something that we make public projections on.
We kind of directionally tell you what we're expecting to have occurred but it's a very difficult number to project because if we were selling faster than we had expected that'll lead to less community counts.
So I mean there's just -- might have delays on opening.
So it's just a very difficult number to project.
Your next question will come from the line of Megan McGrath with MKM Partners.
Research Division</strong> I guess first of all in the category of no good deed goes unpunished I'm going to ask you about your liquidity levers again.
But really just wanted to get -- manage expectations a little bit here about how you are forecasting and when you talk about a deterioration in the market and when you could use these can you give us a sense of what that really means? Do we need to keep the pace? Do we need to just see growth and you think that you can manage it? Does that mean that we start to see year-over-year declines? When you think about a deterioration what exactly does that mean? Well I guess what we've very very consistently said and reiterated time and time again is every time we run our own model we're kind of assuming today's absorption pace today's home prices and that things don't get better they don't get worse.
I mean we run upsides and downsides but when we talk about our model publicly it's the model that kind of just assumes market conditions remain just as they are forever.
So when we talk about deterioration what we're saying is that the market materially gets worse than it is today i.e.
the last time we kind of ran the model.
So that's kind of what we mean by -- and it isn't just it's a tiny hiccup.
It's something materially worsens.
Yes.
And to be clear we haven't run our model assuming February is what happens in every month or even the first quarter.
I'd say our models are run more conservatively than what we've experienced recently.
And we have we believe sufficient cash flow to buy land and hold our cash target in that scenario.
It would have to decrease less.
Home sales and prices would have to decrease from that position of -- which was again more conservative than what we've just announced for the recent quarter and the month of February.
Research Division</strong> And then could you trail down a little bit more if you could -- on your land base you talked about buying new land that requires development.
This land that you're seeing is it raw is it partially developed? And how does that compare to for example your mothballed lots? Are your mothballed lots mostly undeveloped? And -- so when you talk about taking those out and the low-cost base of them are you -- how much money are you going to have to put into those lots when you eventually bring them to market? The mothballed lots first of all have both developed and undeveloped.
We probably -- I haven't looked at the exact breakdown but I think we have more undeveloped in a couple of parcels.
But we certainly have quite a few that are developed.
On the ones that are undeveloped there are a couple that would require more significant cash flow and cash investment to develop them.
Many of them though are able to be broken down into much smaller increments.
So I think we can get a reasonable blend between the ones that are already developed some of that are -- can be broken down into very small land development increments and those that might require more significant investment.
And perhaps for those when they're ready we might seek out a partner.
But we really got quite a mix.
The -- in terms of what kind of undeveloped we're seeing today they -- it really runs the gamut.
We're -- immediately after this meeting we actually have a small land committee meeting.
I'll give you an example of one it's for property in Chicago.
It's a quasi infill it's kind of on the beginning edge of the suburban fringe.
And the streets on the outside are improved and the land development that's necessary has to do more with drainage and sidewalk improvements et cetera not bringing the main utility there.
In some cases -- and in that case that's an older neighborhood and this is one of those overlooked parcels.
And we get those and they tend to have less development.
In other cases we pick up where a land developer stoped and perhaps the bank got the property back.
And they might have had the sewer and water lines done and stopped there.
So we have to go complete perhaps the water and sewer or maybe just test it and then put in the final grading do the roads curves sidewalks et cetera.
And the third category is where we don't have anything there and we've got to do everything A to Z.
We really have situations in all 3 categories all the time.
And that blend is pretty much -- we've kind of assumed the same blend of opportunities that we've been contracting over the last few quarters we have assumed that's the same blend over the next few quarters.
And that's how we calculate our capital needs.
Your next question will come from the line of Kristen McDuffy with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I understand that you can issue up to 125 million of shares for cash.
Do you know how much equity you could issue in exchange for debt without limiting your ability to utilize your NOLs? I think there's some back-specific stuff on that but it's difficult to make the estimate.
It's some number somewhat lower than the 125 million but I can't tell you what it is.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The cash that you're spending from your secure group do you expect this to be spent mostly on wholly owned land? Or do you think that at a point in the future you would invest it into joint ventures? We have 2 secure groups.
Which one are you talking about? Research Division</strong> The one for the 2s and 5s.
Okay.
I mean everything that we do in that secure group is actually in a joint venture.
It's just a wholly owned joint venture.
We could do additional unconsolidated -- or excuse me -- yes unconsolidated joint ventures in the future.
And it's something that we may choose to do.
Research Division</strong> As I think about investing cash in these joint ventures how difficult is it to get that cash back? Does it take longer than say on a normal development to get cash back from a joint venture? I mean it's -- and that's again back-specific as to what the exact terms of the joint venture structure is.
But typically the cash comes back in a similar kind of flow as if we had it on a wholly owned basis.
We just don't put all the cash up.
We're putting cash up alongside of our investors.
So it just takes less cash and the cash flows themselves are similar if not identical.
So we would get our pro rata share back except for the fact that we get a promote so that if we get into the promote stream that promote portion may be delayed in terms of coming back to us because we got to make sure we're over those thresholds.
But that would have been cash we wouldn't have gotten if we did it on a wholly owned basis in terms of a extra IRR kind of return.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And it sounds like your focus is on purchasing finished lots.
But I just -- I think conventional wisdom is that those are becoming more limited and difficult to find.
How are you balancing that? Are you -- what percentage of your lot purchases in the quarter are generally finished versus in need of development? I'm not sure if I have that statistic off the top of my head.
It varies to some extent from market to market.
For example in Houston and Dallas almost 100% of our purchases are already developed and often are on a rolling option basis where we buy X number of finished lots per quarter.
In other markets like let's say California or New Jersey that's typically a little more difficult to achieve.
But I just don't have the exact breakdown of our recent purchases of finished or undeveloped.
Jeff do you happen to have that handy? No I don't.
No.
No we don't track that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly I wanted to just talk about the land banking idea.
I know you guys considered this a few years ago a couple of years ago and found it not to be the most attractive option.
I was wondering what's changed? How much initial investment something like this would take? And how much of your land would you hope to purchase through such a thing if you chose that route? I think the structure of a land banking arrangement is pretty much as follows: We as the homebuilder would put down a deposit.
That would typically be between 10% and 20% of the purchase price.
The land banker would fund the land development also if that's required.
And then we would take down the lots on some pre-prescribed basis.
Typically we -- there's what's known as a skip provision so that if there is a sales hiccup you can skip one quarter of lots and you just add it to the overall pile.
And the rates of return it shift -- that's what shifts around in different times of the market cycle.
I'd say from mid teens to high teens is kind of the talk generally.
And considering we buy land on an unlevered return of about 25%-plus land banking arrangements with those kind of returns still make economic sense to us if they're large enough to warrant it.
Your next question will come from the line of Dan Oppenheim with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if we think about the margins and such and getting cash flow generation profitability isn't just about the volumes but also hopefully having the margins coming through margins even excluding the interest well below some of the peers.
Do you think that some of that speaks to the land that you're getting where it's faster inventory turn and so it's then tougher in terms of making the margins? Is it just fewer deals in that land right now? How do you look at that? Part of it I think has to do that we don't all report margins the same way.
So when you're looking at our gross margin it's after sales commissions.
And most of our peers do it before sales commissions.
So that may be why you're saying we're -- I mean we're still on the low side but it's -- we move up the rank a bit when you make that apple-to-apple kind of adjustment.
Your next question will come from the line of David Goldberg with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I just want to make sure I understood that in this recent debt-for-equity swap -- and I realize it was relatively small.
But I just want to think about that relative to the Section 83 -- Section 382 rules and the change in ownership rules.
Does it have an impact on your 382 and your ability to issue the 125 million shares? I know it was the same number you gave last quarter.
Should we kind of assume that there's no impact accordingly on the change in ownership rules? [indiscernible] Yes we're not going to do an exchange with someone that's a 5% holder or this makes them a 5% holder.
So as long as we stick to that kind of proposition it will have absolutely no impact on the 382.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then I guess my follow-up question it's kind of related to a question that was asked earlier about the cash flows and the joint venture.
But I want to think about that relative to the earning stream and how that might differ.
So we can obviously -- we can see the kind of earnings that come out of it from a [indiscernible] basis it's kind of a line item.
And I'm just trying to think about how the cash flows would differ on -- obviously JVs we are not fully consolidating them as we look forward.
Well I think earnings could exist before you get the cash flow -- before either partner gets cash flow because you may be following back from the cash flow into WIP and subsequent land development sections.
We do -- even if we are into the promote and believe we will be in the promote section where we might get a disproportionate share of the income we do not recognize that from a P&amp;L standpoint nor do we get the cash flow from that until the near the very end of the life both.
Again cash flow nor that extra boost in P&amp;L we would not get until the end of that particular joint venture.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And can I just sneak one more in here quickly? If I look at the absorption pace in the joint ventures it looks like it's higher than the joint ventures of the wholly owned on balance sheet communities.
Is that just related to the legacy communities that you still hold that have a slower absorption pace? Or is that something about product or location of what's in the JV versus what's on balance sheet? To be honest with you we haven't even analyzed that.
My suspicion is it may have to do with some kind of tailwind.
I don't know whether we're counting the community accounts that are 10 or fewer lots remaining or whether there is even any of those.
I mean it's just not something we've really analyzed.
So I don't think I can give you an off-the-cuff answer but they're generally larger communities than we've done in JVs.
And in some instances that might impact absorption of -- it's just not something we've really done a lot of analysis on.
Research Division</strong> Is it fair to say quality-wise there's no difference between what's in the JV and what's in terms of location A B kind of C part of locations? Yes I think that's a safe bet.
The primary reason we would do some in the JV is the size of the community rather than any other qualitative measure.
Your next question will come from the line of Joshua Pollard with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Most of what I wanted to know has been answered.
But I'd love to understand what's the highest level of land you guys could bring on this year now given that you're going to have to split your land spend much more between development and acquisition? It's something that -- I know you guys don't give community count targets but I'm really just trying to understand how much slower you guys may have to grow the business if land prices begin to make a march higher from the hair? I guess the first comment and then I'll let Ara tag on if he has additional things to say is we've been saying for quite a number of quarters and certainly throughout all of 2011 that we were doing land development and doing land development on newly identified lots.
So this is not something new.
And I don't think it's materially changed in the last quarter or two.
So I -- we're not giving you clarity on specifically what our land spend is going to be but I don't expect the fact that we are buying raw land or partially developed land -- that really hadn't materially changed in the last 6 quarters would be my reaction.
Research Division</strong> But what was the split between development versus acquisition in '11? I don't think we've ever publicly disclosed that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
My final question is you guys sort of announced the debt purchases that you did in the quarter in your K.
And it doesn't look like you guys did much more beyond that into the rest of the quarter.
Is there something that sort of signaled to you Larry you should slow down on the debt repurchase side? Or how should we expect you guys to approach debt repurchasing for the balance of 2012? The governor to our willingness to spend on land to spend on debt repurchases -- the final governor is really liquidity and managing to that cash target range that we continue to talk about.
But when we're looking specifically -- as in am I going to invest in land? Am I going to invest in debt repurchase? It's the price of the debt and where it's trading.
So we take all of those kind of factors into account.
If we feel we have the liquidity to go out and make debt repurchases we compare and contrast it to the potential yields we could get on land and do a balance.
That's really kind of how we think about it.
Research Division</strong> So -- and so is it right in assuming that the IRR which you guys said were low to mid 20s for land purchases that you guys are getting you guys would expect lower returns on purchasing debt in the --  from December through January? Well I think when we have purchased it we were getting higher returns than we got on land.
The transactions that we did do were very appealing from an IRR perspective.
Your next question will come from the line of Alex Barrón with Housing Research Center.
LLC</strong> I guess I am trying to balance a couple of thoughts and hoping you can help me.
One is you guys are obviously growing the orders at a pretty rapid and solid rate 20% 30-plus percent.
And so does that necessarily translate into your inventories are going to start to grow at that rate? And if so how do you balance that against your cash position? How -- are you going to need to raise capital soon? Some of that -- as we tried to discuss on the call some of that is really the fruit of investments that we've been making over the last few quarters buying land -- in some cases we were putting the development in in other cases just building the models and getting ready to open.
So as you've seen in some of the charts our community count has been growing which means we bought the land we opened the communities.
Because we don't report it until it's open for sale.
And that typically means the big investments have preceded that.
And then the dollars that are necessary after that are pretty rapidly turning dollars.
They're associated with the construction we have.
So if it takes you 90 or 120 days to build a house and you only have -- you pay the subcontractors 30 days later that part of the asset can turn fairly quickly.
I mean we can actually get proceeds from the customers of closing the house before all of the bills have been received for that particular house.
So that component has pretty good turns and the land and land development component has typically preceded that community's opening.
LLC</strong> Okay.
I guess my second question had to do with trying to understand the accounts payable.
That portion dropped sequentially I guess $30 million $40 million.
And I was wondering is that just a seasonal thing or is that going to bounce back as the year progresses? It's a seasonal thing Alex.
Fourth quarter's typically a big delivery and big deliveries right at the very end of the quarter and that led to higher accounts payable.
And there were just less in this quarter.
And you'll see that same pattern if you go back and look historically at us as well.
Your next question will come from the line of Susan Berliner with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry my questions were answered.
Your next question will come from the line of Joel Locker with FBN Securities.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to get I guess on the debt-to-equity swap just what kind of -- how deep is that pool? Could you have done 12 million for $48 million or maybe 20 million for all that? Just based on -- issuing shares at an equivalent of $4 a share doesn't seem like a bad play right here.
Well I mean we've been approached from time to time and sometimes we're able to negotiate terms at market sometimes we're not able to negotiate terms at market.
But as we mentioned in the script to the extent that there's others that are interested in pursuing this to the extent we can do them at roughly kind of market prices it's something we would entertain.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question is a follow-up from the line of Andrew Casella with Imperial Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> If you could give us an update on your restricted payment basket in the old secure group.
And then just talking about the ability to dividend money upstream from the new secure group if you have that ability at all.
Well I think I mentioned the answer to the first question: We have roughly $138 million of restricted payment capacity left in that bucket from the old secure group.
And then in terms of dividend in cash I mean the cash is walled off with the exception of some limited propositions that I don't expect are going to be meaningful dollars.
What really happens is if we make money in the new secure group on the investments that we make it adds -- for every dollar that we make it adds another dollar to the collateral basket that I can do an additional secured dollar debt.
That's really the benefit.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just secondly on your incentives as a percent of the home sale price can you talk a little bit about that in the quarter and if you think that number can come down as we go through the year? It sounded like sort of year-over-year February you guys weren't necessarily doing any additional incentives or promotional programs so any color would be helpful.
Yes we -- first of all we really focus on net pricing.
Some situations the -- for a variety of reasons a division in a location may decide to keep the base price higher and offer bigger incentives.
And 10 miles away they may decide to offer no incentive and just have very low base prices.
So sometimes it can be -- the discussion can be confusing.
All we focus on is net pricing.
And overall in spite of the fact that I saw the Case-Shiller index did go down in a bunch of cities last month I'd say the environment on pricing overall is holding steady.
Your next question will come from the line of Andy Scheffer with Onex Credit Partners.
Can you describe what caused the change in your mothballed lots? I don't think there's a big change.
Are you talking about sequentially? Yes.
Go ahead Brad.
We had one community that we sold the property it's reflected in our land sales.
And then the other community is now being reactivated.
It's going to be opening for sale.
Un-mothballed.
Un-mothballed basically.
And then one other community had a change in its regulatory -- it's map basically -- but for regulatory reasons it's reduced the number of lots.
We basically reduced the density went with fewer but larger lots.
And we thought that would better optimize the value of the land.
And you commented Larry in your prepared remarks about un-mothballing future lots going forward.
What has to happen in terms of the market for you to un-mothball those communities? I think what basically has to happen is continued improvement in absorption pace of -- combined with at some level in certain communities an ability to increase home prices.
So our ability to get a better return on that investment to justify reopening that community or opening it for the first time is basically what has to happen.
In some cases construction costs come -- have come down enough to un-mothball a couple of communities without the price going up.
In some cases we've managed to change the product type or use type and justify un-mothballing a community.
But generally speaking Larry's response is right on.
It would require a little more pricing or a little more velocity.
Or in some cases besides construction costs we have seen a few instances where the municipalities have lowered some of their fees.
And that could justify un-mothballing as well.
So we should -- any change there would be on the margins it sounds like.
Yes.
Well until the market improves is that what you're saying? Going from here.
Well it's a -- I'm not sure what you mean by any changes.
But as the market improves we fully expect over time to bring all of those lots back.
We're about to un-mothball a small -- another small parcel.
In that case almost every one of the changes were at play.
The municipality did in fact reduce some of their fees by about $5 000.
The market has picked up just a little bit in price and pace.
And we were able to redesign the product for something that's more cost efficient yet still works with the entitlements.
And when you add those 3 together it justifies un-mothballing.
It's like 70 lots and will be a positive profit and cash contributor.
So every situation is different.
I guess what I'm trying to get at is is this a 7-year process is it a 5-year 3-year? I'm trying to get a sense as to how quickly or slowly that could happen.
It's so dependent on those factors.
I would say in general I would not assume that we're going to un-mothball everything in 2 years.
I think more likely it's just going to slowly evolve over time.
The properties are in many different locations.
So a neighborhood in Northern California may improve and firm up just like the one I just mentioned in Florida did.
And frankly I -- we have no way to project when that would happen.
It just -- all of a sudden we saw the pace pick up prices pick up and some of the other factors.
And it was not in our projections at all.
In fact we had it -- we assumed in our internal models that it would be mothballed for another 4 years.
And we just made the decision a week or two ago to un-mothball it.
So it's one of those things that's hard to tell.
There are just so many location-specific dynamics.
And there are no further questions in the queue.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Ara Hovnanian for closing comments.
Thank you.
And we'll try to work on the pronunciation in our future calls.
We're obviously not spending enough money on radio advertising.
But in any case I appreciate your attention for the call.
We are pleased with the results.
We're not going to be ultimately pleased until we return to profitability and then start driving some good solid numbers.
We feel good about the growth prospects coming up and we look forward to reporting on them in the ensuing quarters.
Thank you.
This concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you all for participating and have a nice day.
All parties may now disconnect.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for Hovnanian Enterprises Fiscal 2012 Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
An archive of the webcast will be available after the completion of the call and run for 12 months.
[Operator Instructions] Management will make some opening remarks about the second quarter results and then open up the line for questions.
The company will also be webcasting a slide presentation along with the opening comments from management.
The slides are available on the investors page of the company's website at www.khov.com.
Those listeners who would like to follow along should log onto the website at this time.
Before we begin I would like to turn the call over to Jeff O'Keefe Vice President Investor Relations.
Jeff please go ahead.
Thank you very much.
Before I turn the call over to Ara I would like to read the following about forward-looking statements.
All statements made during this conference call that are not historical facts should be considered as forward-looking statements.
Such statements involve known and unknown risks uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results performance or achievements of the company to be materially different from any future results performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements.
Although we believe that our plans intentions and expectations reflected in or suggested by such forward-looking statements are reasonable we can give no assurance that such plans intentions or expectations will be achieved.
Such risks and uncertainties and other factors include but are not limited to changes in general and local economic and industry and business conditions and impacts of the sustained homebuilding downturn; adverse weather and other environmental conditions and natural disasters; changes in market conditions and seasonality of the company's business; changes in home prices and sales activity to the markets where the company builds homes; government regulation including regulations concerning development of land the homebuilding sales and customer financing processes tax laws and the environment; fluctuations in interest rates and availability of mortgage financing; shortages in and price fluctuations of raw materials and labor; the availability and cost of suitable land and improved lots; levels of competition; availability of financing to the company; utility shortages and outages or rate fluctuations; levels of indebtedness and restrictions on the company's operations and activities imposed by the agreements governing the company's outstanding indebtedness; the company's sources of liquidity; changes in credit ratings; availability of net operating loss carryforwards; operations through joint ventures with third parties; product liability litigation warranty claims and claims by mortgage investors; successful identification and integration of acquisitions; significant influence of the company's controlling stockholders; changes in tax laws affecting the after-tax costs of owning a home; geopolitical risks terrorist acts and other acts of war; and other factors described in detail in the company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 31 2011.
Except as otherwise required by applicable securities laws we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events changed circumstances or any other reason.
And with that out of the way I'd now like to turn the call over to Ara Hovnanian our Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer.
Ara please go ahead.
Thanks Jeff.
Good morning and thank you for participating in today's call to review the results of our second quarter and 6 months ended April 30 2012.
Joining me today from the company are Larry Sorsby Executive Vice President and CFO; Brad O'Connor Vice President Chief Accounting Officer and Corporate Controller; David Valiaveedan Vice President Finance and Treasurer; and Jeff O'Keefe who you just heard from Vice President of Investor Relations.
On Slide 3 you can see a brief summary of our second quarter results and comparisons to the prior year's second quarter.
All in all we had a very good second quarter when you look at just about every line on this slide.
Contracts were up 52% compared to the same quarter last year and up 56% on a contracts per community basis.
The higher sales pace resulted in selling out some communities ahead of plan resulting in our community count dropping 3% compared to last year.
Deliveries increased 25% backlog increased 48% and total revenues were up 34%.
Land-related charges were dramatically lower at $3.2 million for the second quarter versus $16.9 million for the same period last year.
Income was a positive $1.8 million helped by a $27 million gain on extinguishment of debt compared to a loss of $73 million last year.
Finally while cash was down compared to last year it increased sequentially for the quarter from $202 million at the end of the first quarter 2012 to $229 million at April 30 2012 including after land purchases and land development.
Slide 4 shows the sequential and annual growth in net contracts gaining momentum during the second quarter.
This is the first time that we have had 4 consecutive quarters with year-over-year net contract growth since the first quarter of 2006.
During each of the prior 12 months we achieved year-over-year net contract growth including every month of our second quarter.
More importantly the magnitude of these monthly increases has been gaining momentum through April.
Slide 5 shows greater granularity with monthly net contracts data on the left and weekly data on the right.
While we've added our results for the month of May post quarter end it's important to note that May of 2012 only had 4 Sundays compared to the 5 Sundays during April of this year and May of last year.
As we've said on prior calls since the vast majority of our sales occurred during the weekends the number of weekends in a month will affect monthly sales results.
You'll clearly see May of '12 dropped in net contracts including unconsolidated joint ventures from -- to 506 from 635 during April but increased slightly compared to May of last year at 501.
However it's important to note our weekly contract pace was unchanged at 127 per week during May of '12 compared to 127 per week in the prior month of April of '12 and it increased 27% compared to 100 contracts per week in May of 2011.
Of note our monthly trends were very different from those reported by the NAR last week for pending home sales.
Homebuilding stocks sold off as pending home sales fell 5.5% in April of '12 compared to March of '12.
This is different than the 3.8% increase that we reported over the same time period.
We're often puzzled by the magnitude and direction in both directions of the data reported by other national statistics including the NAR for existing home sales and the U.S.
Census Bureau for new home sales.
I recognize that some analysts in spite of the fact that our weekly sales pace was exactly the same in May as in April they still may be concerned by the fall-off in the absolute number of May contracts.
I can tell you the housing market continues to feel very solid in spite of some of the current international economic concerns in the media.
Let me reiterate that similar to the first quarter there were no coordinated national sales promotions that led to the increased net contracts during the second quarter.
As a matter of fact we either raised base prices or lowered incentives in roughly 40% of our communities during the first half of fiscal '12.
As our sales pace has increased we have tested pricing increases in many of our communities.
More often than not these pricing increases came in thousand-dollar increments.
We've been gradually raising prices because the last thing we want to do is push prices too far and slow down our sales pace to the point that we reduce our ability to leverage our fixed costs and improve our operating margins.
We've had good success while maintaining sales -- with maintaining sales pace even with the price increases we've implemented.
With some of our price increases -- excuse me while some of our price increases have gone to offset cost increases our margins did continue to climb and we'll describe this more fully in a couple of slides.
Slide 6 shows our net contracts per community per month for the last 12 months through April of 2012 in the red bars and comparisons to the same month from a year earlier in the yellow bars.
Here you see that net contracts per community increased in 10 of the past 12 months.
Once again the gains in February March and April have been larger in magnitude.
It is worth pointing out that excluding our 2007 Deal of the Century promotion we sold more homes in April of 2012 at 3.2 homes per community than we have since the spring selling season of 2006.
It was helped by having 5 selling Sundays which are noted along the bottom of the graph.
Turning to Slide 7.
We have added the results for May of 2012 at 2.6 net contracts per community in May of 2012.
We reported year-over-year increases in net contracts per community for the month of May of 2012 versus the 2.4 reported in May of 2011.
Additionally we reported year-over-year increases in the absolute number of net contracts for May despite the fact that there were only 4 Sundays in May of '12 compared to 5 Sundays in May of '11 another testament to the strength of the market.
Slide 8 shows annual net contracts per active selling community since '97.
In normal times say between 1997 and 2002 which is on the left-hand side of the slide we averaged at about 44 net contracts per community.
For the past 3 months we've been operating at about 1/2 of that normal average -- excuse me for the last 3 years.
This annualized -- excuse me the annualized 6-month selling pace per community for 2012 is 31.2 net contracts per active selling community and is shown by the red bar on the far right-hand side of the slide.
While this is not as quite as good as our normal annual sales pace this annualized pace is much higher than what we have seen over the past several years and approaching the level we saw in 2006.
Given these trends it appears that the homebuilding industry is in the early stages of a recovery.
Our optimism is based on the fact that the strength in our sales has been broad-based from every perspective: price point geography and buyer profile.
On Slide 9 you can see that each of our 6 segments showed solid year-over-year increases in net contracts for the quarter ended April 2012 compared to same period last year.
Of course some submarkets within these segments have done better while others have not performed as well and we give some examples of several of these submarkets on the slide.
On a consolidated basis our net contracts increased 52% over this period of time.
And when looking at broad submarkets throughout the country the smallest increase was 23%.
Houston which has been a solid performer throughout this downturn was up only 31% ranking them almost at the bottom of our list.
It's not because sales in Houston were poor they simply have performed well in recent years and therefore had a tougher comparison to last year.
Phoenix is a market that's been getting a lot of press lately as a red-hot market and our operations in Phoenix are doing quite well.
Market conditions in Phoenix are improving as you can see on Slide 10.
This slide shows MLS listings in red and MLS sales in each month in yellow.
The month's supply of used homes for sale in Phoenix which is shown in blue has gone from a high of 24.5 months supply in January of '08 to 2.5 months supply in March of 2012.
We've also circled in black the months of March in 2011 and 2012 and you can see a similar long-term downturn.
In general we have seen similar trends in MLS data in many of our markets across the country.
Our net contracts in Phoenix over this 3-month period grew 80% which is better than average but there were a couple of markets that did even better.
For instance Ohio was up 100% and net contracts in Chicago were up 98%.
Looking at a fourth submarket if you combine all of the Florida markets they were up 74%.
Palm Beach County Florida which is shown on Slide 11 is another example of a market where the month's supply has dropped considerably.
It's shown in blue and you can see that it's dropped from 43.3 months supply in February of '08 to 5.2 in March of 2012.
That's a much more normal level of supply.
Given recent trends in traffic and anecdotal evidence from our sales associate about the quality -- sales associates about the quality of the traffic we're cautiously optimistic that improved sales paces will continue throughout the summer months.
The good news is that we're grabbing our fair share of the pick-up in the market activity.
However there is an impact in our land position from the increased sales paces that we've been selling.
We're selling through communities at a faster pace and ended the quarter with 199 active selling communities as seen on Slide 12.
The combination of more rapidly selling legacy communities and a slowdown in some of our opportunities to acquire new land late last year resulted in a decrease in open-for-sale communities.
However the recent increases in home sales pace and home sales prices have justified higher land values.
This in turn has caused more land sellers to offer land and lots to the market increasing our opportunities to replenish our pipeline.
You'll see the result of greater land opportunities in a few slides.
Up until now community count was the only way we could grow our top line.
Now we're seeing increased sales pace and price which is helping drive top line growth.
Let me get back to our operating performance for the second quarter.
Our gross quarterly margin as shown on Slide 13 was 17.4% a 90 point improvement over the first quarter of 2012 and a 260 basis point improvement over the prior year's second quarter.
As you can see on this slide this sequential improvement in gross margin has been very steady for the past 4 quarters.
Of note this is the highest our gross margin has been since the first quarter of 2007.
We're still not back to a normalized gross margin of about 20% which you can see on the left-hand portion of Slide 14 but the improvement in the year-to-date period is a step in the right direction.
At the end of the second quarter 82% of our wholly-owned communities that were open for sale were newly identified communities that we controlled after January of '09.
61% of our consolidated deliveries in the second quarter were from newly identified land which is higher than the 44% of deliveries in all of fiscal '11 from new land.
Given the current number of new communities we would expect the mix of deliveries from newly acquired land for all of 2012 to be higher than it was in 2011.
As long as we see no adverse changes in market condition this mix should result in our gross margins increasing during fiscal '12 compared to fiscal '11.
During the second quarter of '12 there were $20.8 million of impairment reversals related to home deliveries compared to $22.2 million of impairment reversals in the second quarter of 2011.
Turning to Slide 15 you see on the right-hand slide (sic) [side] that the absolute dollar amount of our total SG&amp;A in the second quarter of 2012 decreased 8% year-over-year in spite of a 52% increase in contracts and a 25% increase in deliveries.
Underneath the bars we show that as a percentage of total revenues second quarter total SG&amp;A was 13.9% which is a 640 basis point improvement over a year ago when it was 20.3%.
Not only is this much lower than last year's second quarter this is the lowest our SG&amp;A ratio has been since the first quarter of 2008.
This improvement is illustrative of the leverage we get from an SG&amp;A perspective as our sales volumes increase.
As net contracts per community increase the leverage we gain from the SG&amp;A line is even greater than it would be if the top line growth came purely from community count growth.
Once again this -- while this ratio has improved it's not back to our historical norms of about 10%.
On the left-hand side of this slide we show the annual percentage rates for the last 12 years.
Keep in mind that as our delivery volumes increase over the next 2 quarters and they should with the 52% increase in net contracts and the 48% increase in backlog these SG&amp;A percentages should continue to trend lower.
The combination of the improvements in gross margin and in SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenue will allow us to get to the point where we are consistently earning in operating profit.
As we look forward we expect continued improvement on both fronts which will push us even further down the path of returning to profitability.
After spending $44.2 million on land and land development we ended the second quarter of fiscal '12 with approximately $229 million in homebuilding cash including cash used to collateralize letters of credit as seen on Slide 16.
Even though we said on our last quarterly conference call that we'd be comfortable with the low end of our cash target range we ended the second quarter close to the high end of our range of $170 million to $245 million.
As we have said before our future investment decisions will be made within the confines of this cash target range.
This increase in cash came despite starting 33% more homes in the second quarter compared to the first quarter.
Now I'll turn it over to Larry who will discuss our inventories liquidity and mortgage operations as well as a few other topics.
Thanks Ara.
Turning to Slide 17.
We show our gross margin for our second quarter compared to the most recent quarter of the other public homebuilders.
The gray arrow indicates the year-over-year change in gross margin for each public builder and you will note that our 270 basis point improvement was the highest amongst our 12 peers and was 90 basis points higher than the builder with the second largest quarterly increase.
Unfortunately not all public builders report gross margins the same way.
Pulte NVR and ourselves include commissions and cost of sales while the remaining public builders include all or a portion of those costs in SG&amp;A.
Turning to Slide 18.
We have attempted to compare all public builders' gross margins on an apples-to-apples basis.
To do this we reduced the gross margins of KB Home Lennar MDC M/I Homes Meritage and Standard Pacific by the same 3.5% that our sales commissions totaled in our second quarter.
For builders who publicly report sales commission or responded to industry surveys we reduced their gross margins per the amounts contained in their SEC filings or per the estimates we have footnoted on this slide.
As you can see once the adjustments are made our 17.4% gross margin is at the median and is directly comparable to the group's 17.46% average gross margin.
To be fair we also need to show you a similar apples-to-apples comparison to our peers for SG&amp;A for the most recent quarter.
Turning to Slide 19.
As footnoted on this slide we reduced SG&amp;A amounts by the same adjustments we made on the previous slide for all the public builders who include all or some portion of the sales commission in SG&amp;A.
Once these reductions in SG&amp;A costs are made for our peers our 14.8% SG&amp;A compares favorably to both the median and the average for our 12 peers.
While we still have further improvements to make in order to return both our gross margin and SG&amp;A ratios back to normal levels we are pleased with our progress and hope these comparisons provide you with a clear understanding of how our performance on these metrics stacks up on an apples-to-apples basis against our peers.
Turning to Slide 20.
We controlled an additional 700 newly identified lots in the second quarter of fiscal 2012.
The pace of land purchases and lot options has increased from the previous quarter on both a gross and net basis.
Through the end of the second quarter we now have purchased or optioned approximately 17 700 newly identified lots and 316 communities since January 31 2009.
Primarily as a result of finding pure land purchase opportunities that met our underwriting criteria last fall and early winter the total dollar spend on new land acquisition and land development during the second quarter was lower than previous quarters.
While it may seem counterintuitive we've seen a greater number of new land opportunities in recent months.
Part of that may be that the pace and price of home sales have increased sufficiently to warrant higher prices and better terms on land offers which is attractive to more land sellers including the banks.
We are optimistic that we will return to higher levels of land expenditures in the ensuing quarters.
We are still looking for new land opportunities throughout all of our markets and continue a disciplined approach when underwriting new land parcels.
The land that we purchased or optioned met or exceeded our investment threshold of a 25% unlevered IRR and underwriting based on the then-current home selling prices and no changes in sales pace for the next couple of years.
During the second quarter we optioned 1 800 new lots purchased about 50 lots not previously optioned walked away from about 800 newly identified lots and sold about 350 lots.
The net result for the second quarter was that our total lots purchased or controlled since January 2009 increased by about 700 lots sequentially from the first quarter of 2012.
During the second quarter we purchased 400 newly identified lots and 79 communities.
In addition we purchased about 340 lots from legacy options.
Our corporate land committee schedule to review new opportunities is growing rapidly.
Turning to Slide 21.
You'll see our owned and optioned land position broken out by our publicly reported segments.
Based on our trailing 12 month deliveries we still own 4.2 years worth of land.
However if you exclude the 6 913 mothballed lots we only own 2.5 years worth of land based on the delivery rate of the past 4 quarters.
Our owned and optioned lot positions decreased sequentially by about 580 lots in the second quarter.
We purchased approximately 740 lots during the second quarter which was offset by 1 043 deliveries and about 525 lots from land sales.
On the option side of the equation we walked away from 828 option lots purchased about 740 option lots and signed new option contracts for an additional 1 800 lots during the quarter.
We continued to be disciplined and only taking down option contracts that make economic sense.
At the end of the second quarter 72% of our optioned lots were newly identified lots and 26% of our owned lots were newly identified lots.
If you exclude mothballed lots 44% of our owned lots are newly acquired.
When you combine our optioned and owned land together 43% of the total lots that we control today are newly identified lots.
Excluding the mothballed lots 58% of our total lots are newly identified lots.
Our investment in land option deposits were $25.4 million in April 30 2012 with $24.2 million in cash deposits and the other $1.2 million of deposits being held by letters of credit.
Additionally we have another $5.4 million invested in predevelopment expenses.
Turning to Slide 22.
We show our mothballed lots broken out by geographic segment.
In total we have 6 913 mothballed lots within 54 communities that were mothballed as of April 30 2012.
The book value at the end of the second quarter for these remaining mothballed lots was $141 million net of an impairment balance of $449 million.
We are carrying these mothballed lots at 24% of their original value.
Since 2009 we have un-mothballed 3 200 lots within 57 communities including 200 lots in 3 communities during the second quarter of fiscal 2012.
As the market recovery that we're beginning to feel gains some momentum we will be able to justify returning more of our mothballed lots into production.
This would provide us with a rich supply of lots at a low cost basis.
Looking at all of our consolidated communities in the aggregate including mothballed communities then we have an inventory book value of about $946 million net of $720.3 million of impairments which we recorded on 116 of our communities.
Of the properties that have been impaired we're carrying them at 24% of their pre-impaired value.
On the balance sheet you may have noticed the increase in consolidated inventory not owned.
The increase was attributable to favorable new opportunities for model sale leaseback transactions.
During the second quarter we entered into model sale leasebacks on 86 of the 217 model homes we owned at the end of the first quarter.
These transactions allowed us to deploy capital previously tied up in model homes more efficiently into our homebuilding business.
The lease agreements offer single-digit financing rates on average and give us participation in the future sales price appreciation of the model homes which may lower the financing costs further in the future.
Because of our continuing involvement the transaction is accounted for at a GAAP as a financing and the inventory remains on the balance sheet as other inventory not owned.
Now turning to Slide 23.
The number of started unsold homes excluding models and unconsolidated joint ventures decreased both sequentially and year-over-year.
We ended the second quarter with 706 started unsold homes.
This translates to 4 started unsold homes per active selling communities which is lower than our long-term average of about 4.8 unsold homes per community.
Another area of discussion for the quarter is related to our current and deferred tax asset valuation allowance.
At the end of the second quarter the valuation allowance in the aggregate was $906.8 million.
We view this as a very significant asset not currently reflected on our balance sheet and have taken steps to protect it.
We expect to be able to reverse this allowance after we generate consecutive years of solid profitability and can continue to project solid profitability going forward.
When a reversal does occur we expect the remaining allowance to be added back to our shareholders' equity further strengthening our balance sheet.
Today we could issue more than 100 million additional shares of common HOV stock per cash without limiting our ability to utilize our NOLs.
This has been reduced from what we reported last quarter based on the 25 million shares of common stock we issued in early April 2012.
We ended the second quarter with total shareholders' deficit of $455 million.
If you add back the total valuation allowance as we've done on Slide 24 our total shareholders' equity would be $451.8 million.
Let me reiterate that the tax asset valuation allowance is for GAAP purposes only.
For tax purposes our tax assets may be carryforwards for 20 years from incurrence and we expect to utilize those tax loss carryforwards as we generate profits in the future.
For the first $1.9 billion of pretax profits we generate we will not have to pay federal income taxes.
Now let me update you briefly on our mortgage operations turning to Slide 25.
You can see here that the credit quality of our mortgage customers continues to be strong with an average FICO score of 736.
For the second quarter of fiscal 2012 our mortgage accounting captured 75% of our non-cash home-buying customers.
Turning to Slide 26.
We show a breakout of all the various loan types originated by our mortgage operations in the second quarter of fiscal 2012 compared to all of fiscal 2011.
31% of our originations were FHA during the second quarter of fiscal 2012 slightly less than the 34% we sold during all of fiscal 2011.
Regarding the repurchase request from various banks we continue to believe that the vast majority of requests that we've received are unjustified.
On Slide 27 you'll see our payments from fiscal 2008 through the second quarter of fiscal 2012.
During the first half of 2012 our repayments were only $0.9 million on 7 loans.
During the second quarter of 2012 we received 22 repurchase inquiries which was higher than the quarterly average of 10 repurchase inquiries for all of fiscal 2011.
It is our policy to estimate and reserve for potential losses when we sell loans to investors.
All of the above losses have been adequately reserved for in previous periods.
At the end of the second quarter our reserve for loan repurchases and make whole requests were $6.6 million which we believe is adequate for our exposure.
To date mortgage repurchases have not been a significant problem but we will continue to monitor this issue closely.
Turning back to our homebuilding operations.
Primarily due to our recent increases in sales activity our cancellation rate for the second quarter was 17% slightly better than normal levels.
During the month of May our cancellation rate was 19% as it began to edge back up to more normal levels.
Turning to Slide 28.
It shows our debt maturity schedule through 2021 which takes into account the $88 million of debt we repurchased or exchanged during the second quarter.
I want to further clarify the timing of the equity offering we completed in April of 2012.
A single large bondholder approached us about selling us their position in our bonds.
Both the timing and the size of the equity offering were driven by this single conversation.
At the end of the second quarter we have approximately $138 million of restricted payment capacity left to repurchase additional bonds.
Additionally as you may have seen with the 8-Ks we filed during the second quarter we have entered into several 3(a)(9) debt-for-equity exchanges.
During the second quarter we exchanged 3.1 million shares of common stock for approximately $12.2 million of debt.
As we look forward we have only $48 million of debt that matures before 2015 and additional $84 million of debt that matures before 2016.
Additionally we believe the $84.5 million of debt reduction on the 2016 and 2017 maturities we made in the second quarter will help position our company to refinance our 2016 secured notes in the future.
At the end of fiscal 2012 second quarter after having spent approximately $44.2 million in cash during the quarter to repurchase -- to -- excuse me to purchase about 740 lots and on land development across the company we ended the quarter with $229 million of cash.
This includes $33.8 million of homebuilding restricted cash used to collateralize letters of credit.
Recently there have been more land deals coming to corporate land committee.
As we look forward we would expect the dollars invested land and land development to increase from the $44.2 million reported for the second quarter of fiscal 2012.
Our focus will remain at keeping our minimum total cash balance at quarter end within the range of $170 million to $245 million.
As we said last quarter given the reduction in restricted cash and our bigger backlog position we are much more comfortable at the lower end of our targeted cash range.
We are well above the midpoint of that range as of the end of the second quarter and believe that we have adequate liquidity to reinvest in sufficient land to increase our deliveries as well as repay the debt that matures between now and the end of 2015.
Purchasing smaller land parcels resulting in faster inventory turns has been part of our strategy that makes that achievable.
This is evidenced by about a 30% increase in inventory turns in the second quarter of fiscal 2012 compared to last year's second quarter.
That concludes our prepared remarks and we'll open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Adam Rudiger with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Ara you mentioned in your opening remarks some of the drivers potentially of the gross margin improvement but I was wondering if you could elaborate a bit more and just break it down for us because it was a pretty nice correction this quarter and then the components that you think quantify each for the sequential improvement.
We really don't break it down.
There are so many factors frankly everything from the mix of communities that are delivering to a little bit of price increase to a little bit of cost increase.
There's just a lot of factors going in and we don't have a breakout.
I mean as we've been saying for a number of quarters now as our mix of deliveries increases from our newly identified communities we would expect our margins to improve.
And I think you're seeing that begin to occur as well.
It's very difficult to -- I mean the geographic mix the product mix community by community it's very tough to give you any granularity other than we're seeing the increase of newly identified lots finally begin to kick in in a more meaningful way.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then just sticking with gross margins.
Ara you mentioned that some of your price increases are being offset a bit by costs.
Could you mention or elaborate at all that -- what kind of cost increases you're seeing and maybe address if you could from a material perspective and also from a geographic perspective.
Sure.
Well it's really been focused on some of the commodity materials.
Since the beginning of our fiscal year end lumber overall has increased about 20% and it's probably the single largest material cost component driver in the houses.
The -- a variety of other commodity materials have moved in some directions.
Interestingly shingles have been fine.
Concrete has moved up but only a few percent.
Plastic PVC pipe has been moving up and down not a huge factor.
Drywall however has increased quite a bit it's been up over 10% since the beginning of the year.
Insulation on the other hand has been flat.
Paints moved up just a bit; vinyl siding just a little bit.
So there's stuff all up and down in general on the commodities.
They would have been trending up a bit.
Our branded materials we have national contracts for most of them that hold prices for 1 2 or 3 years.
That includes kitchen cabinets carpeting appliances and a few other materials.
So that has held out fine.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Casella with Imperial Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess just looking at your price increases is there a way you could quantify I guess to the extent you're increasing prices as a percent of base price what that might be across the portfolio on average and just talk about the range of price increases you're seeing? As Ara mentioned in his prepared remarks I mean most of the increases have been kind of in thousand-dollar increments.
And I would say in the majority of the 40% of our communities where we've had it there may be 1 may be 2 price increases.
But they're relatively small.
We just don't want to slow down the absorption pace that we've been experiencing.
So we're just testing whether we can get price increases without adversely impacting kind of sales pace.
And to put it into perspective our average price is about $300 000.
So if we did $1 000 increment that's 0.3% at a time.
So it's really been in very small increments but I'm happy to say that we've been able to test those increments in a good percentage of our communities.
And I would also say that not many of those price increases have ever -- have actually come through those deliveries yet.
We're -- when we say 40% of our community we're talking about from a contract perspective rather than from a delivery perspective.
LLC Research Division</strong> And my follow-up question if you could.
Can you break down the allocation of cash between the secured group and the restricted group under the 2 different bond indentures and then also talk a little about how much inventory is sitting in the secured group as of the end of the second quarter? Yes we'll come back to that when -- we got to look it up.
So if there's another question we'll move on but we will come back to answer that.
Your next question comes from the line of David Goldberg with UBS.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Susan for David.
Your land spend in the quarter was about $30 million lower sequentially despite what seems to be an improvement in the overall land market.
Can you just give us an update in terms of what you expect it to be for the year and how we should expect that to trend as we go through the back half of the year? I'd say you should expect it absolutely to trend up.
As Larry mentioned I think on his slides our lands secured through options this past quarter increased significantly.
And we absolutely are seeing more opportunities that make economic sense.
I mean the pace and price has helped.
We are disappointed that the number was one of our lower quarters just recently but we think it's going to get back.
Certainly in the back half of the year we'll see increases.
Research Division</strong> So it's more of really just a timing issue I suppose.
It really was.
And there is a delay and there was a period ensuing last year when we just didn't quite find the opportunities given there was a period last year where sales pace was not nearly where it is today and it was harder to make numbers pencil out.
The time from contract actually closing on land can have a lag and that's what we felt this last quarter.
But we feel quite confident that's going to be picking up.
We're certainly seeing -- entering into new contracts that would settle in the next quarter or 2 and we're seeing more opportunities pop up right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then given the fact that you expect the -- some level of overall improvement to continue through the summer are you changing anything in terms of your expectations to open new communities or your scheduling for opening them? Yes well I mean we do it as fast as we can get them open after we actually control the land and have all the permits to where we can open them and have the models built and that kind of thing.
So it's really just the speed of being able to get them open that's what's driving the timing of the openings.
Research Division</strong> Okay but you don't expect to bring any more or any change in the overall? Well I mean again we are stepping up land acquisition.
We've been as interested in land acquisition now as in the past.
We're just finding more opportunities.
So as we execute and consummate those land contracts we would hope to be opening up more communities.
As you know it can depend on what the sales pace is in our existing communities how rapidly do we wind those down based on the sales pace what entitlement and regulatory delays are involved in new ones.
But we are certainly planning to increase our new acquisition pace from what you just saw and hopefully that will have some good results in community openings as well.
Before we take the next question let me answer the previous question that we had to look up in terms of breaking out cash and inventory between the old secured group and the new secured group.
With respect to the old secured group cash at quarter end was $142.5 million and inventory was $687.1 million.
With respect to the new secured group cash was $93 million at quarter end and inventory was $31.5 million.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Jason Marcus in for Mike.
So just going back to the gross margins for a second.
Gross margins improved pretty nicely sequentially on a year-over-year basis and I know that you commented that you expect gross margins to increase in fiscal '12 over fiscal '11.
So I was just wondering if the current level of gross margins the 17.4% is kind of an appropriate level that you expect to go going forward or if you expect that it can even increase from there in the back half of the year.
We're not providing any additional guidance before -- beside what we've already kind of indicated.
So we're just not making an absolute projection on what's going to happen precisely with gross margins.
Mix is a big driver of what margins may or may not be.
But we're just not in the projection business these days too much uncertainty.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the next thing is if you could give -- break out what the May year-over-year order growth was excluding JVs and then also what the fully diluted share count was at the end of the quarter.
We'll get back to you on that one.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Oppenheim with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you can talk about land.
I think if we look at your order trends and from other builders many are starting to worry about lands probably in the next couple of years.
And so just I'm wondering what you're doing in terms of land underwriting how you're thinking about margins on land that you're looking at right now.
Overall our criteria has remained pretty steady.
It's -- we're really focused primarily on an unleveraged IRR.
Our hurdle rate has been 25%.
That includes all overheads but excludes a corporate overhead allocation.
So that remained pretty steady.
We're actually finding more opportunities ironically now than we did 6 or 9 months ago.
And I think although it's counterintuitive as we mentioned earlier in the presentation it's because the faster pace -- we underwrite to a land residual.
We know the IRR threshold we have to get to.
We know the house prices and the cost so we work backwards and come up with a land residual that we can offer a land seller.
That number was disappointing for a long time.
It still is from certain perspectives on many land sellers.
But that number that land residual has been rising and that has made it more enticing for land sellers including the banks to sell their lands.
So we're just finding more opportunities out there.
So we're a little optimistic.
There is always competition for land.
I mean that's been since the caveman era I suppose and we're out there slugging it away with everyone as we normally are.
In general compared to the boom era there are fewer private builders that we're competing against.
So from that perspective it's probably a more limited arena in terms of competition on land than it was 7 or 8 years ago.
Research Division</strong> And I guess wondering in terms of the May order trends.
You talked about how there was really an issue in terms of the weekends during the month and such.
Just to get a more -- a little bit more color on that were the trends that you saw in terms of percent if we look at it regionally on that per-week basis similar to what we saw during the full second quarter? Any change there? Just trying to understand if -- how May was relative to that.
Didn't really change in any material way.
May's weekly pace was virtually identical -- it wasn't virtually.
It was identical to what our April weekly pace was and there was no notable change in terms of mix.
And I'd say it was very steady during the month.
And so far it feels pretty steady again.
Before we take the next question the prior questioner had a question with respect to fully diluted shares.
For the quarter fully diluted shares were about 116 117 000 shares.
I think he also wanted to know what it was what our fully diluted share count was at quarter end.
I mean there is no such thing.
I can tell you what was outstanding at quarter end and outstanding number of shares at quarter end was 126 million shares roughly.
May's contracts.
May contracts was also another question excluding JVs.
So excluding JVs our May net contracts for 2012 May of 2012 was 462 compared to 459 for May of 2011.
And I think that those percentages are roughly the same that we've seen year-over-year as well.
Your next question comes from the line of Nishu Sood with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask a question about your cash balance obviously at the higher end of your range.
If I look back to 1Q you had a really helpful slide where you basically laid out that -- beyond operating backlog conversion cash generation a number of levers you can pull.
If I looked at this quarter you had 3 of those in effect basically a reduced amount of land spend.
You sold I think about $18 million or $20 million of excess land.
There was the $27 million model sale leaseback as well.
So I guess I wanted to step back and look at the bigger picture here.
Was the second quarter just a confluence of events these opportunities came up so you decided to take them? Or is this a broader push to boost your liquidity ahead of housing recovery? I think from a land sales perspective there wasn't anything unusual in the quarter land sales-wise.
And we periodically had land sales.
In this quarter we had land sales not too unlike what we've had in prior quarters.
With respect to the model sale leaseback I think in some of the -- my comments that I've made in my prepared remarks it was really finding very attractive rates and terms of a model sale leaseback.
We'd much prefer to redeploy the cash from a model sale leaseback back into buying new land that we're getting 25-plus-percent unlevered IRRs and paying less than 10% on the model sale leaseback and participating in the upside of any price increases those models might have so we just think a great way to enhance returns as well as provide additional capital to invest in additional land transactions.
So we didn't think about it in terms of pulling those levers because we have to.
We think it's very opportunistic ways to be able to invest more on core operating business.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And the second question I wanted to ask was about your mothballed communities that you are un-mothballing.
You've laid out for us pretty clearly that -- on your new vintage land the 2009 and post vintage land that you have good margins on those relative to obviously your legacy communities.
I wanted to ask about the communities that are being un-mothballed.
How do those fit in the margin spectrum? I mean generally speaking mothballed lands have lower margins.
And part of the reason why they're mothballed: either they don't generate a good-enough margin at this moment or they don't generate a cash flow that's worth the land development investment going into it right now.
So I'd say in general those have lower margins.
Now having said that we're seeing some price and pace escalation in some of the areas where we've been un-mothballing so that will be helpful.
And that could ultimately change things because we'll be replenishing land at the then-current market but our mothballed properties have been written down some time ago by 75% approximately and that price doesn't change with the market.
So that could change but right now we have better margins on our new purchases for sure.
Your next question comes from the line of Alan Ratner with Zelman &amp; Associates.
Research Division</strong> Ara just first off on the orders side with regard to the number of weekends.
I was just wondering if you could maybe quantify either in a typical month or year what percentage of your orders typically are written up on the weekends as opposed to during the weeks just to kind of give us a little bit more clarity on that topic.
Oh boy.
I...
I think it's around 70% that occurs in those 2 days as compared to the other 5.
Research Division</strong> And the second question just relates to what you're seeing in the labor market in May with the job report.
The BLS actually reported at least on a seasonally adjusted basis a pretty significant drop in construction-related jobs and that definitely contradicts what we're hearing from builders that might be a little bit more concerned about possible labor cost increases in the next few quarters.
So just curious kind of what you're seeing in your local markets on the labor side.
Do you feel like you're creating jobs losing jobs? And what your expectations are on costs going forward.
It's funny I think we made a comment sometimes we just can't figure out some of the overall statistics in housing and in other areas and this is one of those areas.
We just reported obviously a 52% increase in sales contracts.
We're not standing out there by ourselves with the big increases.
Many of our peers are reporting big increases and have over the recent months and quarter ends.
While sales contract orders translate to permits translate to starts and I can guarantee you -- I mean in our case with 52% more starts.
Pretty good chance we'll be employing 52% more masons 52% more plumbers and 52% more painters and rug installers than we did the same quarter last year.
So I think that's good news -- very good news in the coming quarters for the national unemployment rates.
I'd be just shocked if it's not.
And the reason I say that is because a lot of the unemployed has been in our sector as housing starts went from 2 million starts per year including rentals from -- down to 500 000.
That put a lot of carpenters and sheetrock layers out of employment.
They are not the same workers that are going to get a job at an Intel plant or writing a new Google app.
They are often in the construction trade and need -- and stay in that business and are looking for the construction to come back.
Well based on the orders we're putting forward and the same with our peers employment in this one industry construction which has really been lagging has got to be growing in the next few quarters.
I think it's going to be growing and help many in enterprises.
And by the way we like most public homebuilders subcontract out almost all of the construction so you won't necessarily see our employee count rise but the employee count of all of the electricians plumbers roofers et cetera that we hire should be going up in the coming quarters.
Research Division</strong> Great that's really helpful and it's definitely consistent with what we're expecting as well.
Just adding on to that though are there any expectations then that that increased volume will lead to inflation on the labor cost side in terms of what you're paying your subs? And any type of quantification you could give there would be helpful.
Yes I -- it's a very good point and it's something we are really focused on and sensitive too.
And I'd be lying if I didn't say that we will see pressure on labor side around the country but I can't really quantify that.
And at the moment our price increases have been outpacing any overall construction cost increases that we've experienced.
And that's cost increases from both the materials and the labor side.
But it's something that is clearly a factor all homebuilders are very focused on.
Your next question comes from the line of Megan McGrath with MKM Partners.
Research Division</strong> Larry I guess I'm just trying to gauge some of your comments around capital structure and equity issuances.
It sounds like that you -- that the sort of larger equity issuance was kind of a one-off.
Would you do it again in the same situation? Or is your appetite more for these smaller equity issuances related to debt paydown? I think it depends on the circumstances at the time.
We certainly haven't been interested in doing the lower share price.
And frankly the day we pull the trigger on the equity offering I think we were fighting an extremely ugly tape in the overall broader markets and that's kind of been down ever since.
So I don't think we'd be very interested at these kind of prices but it really depends on the circumstances at the time and what debt we could potentially be getting rid of.
I mean we've continued to chip away at our debt positions since 2008.
We've reduced debt by $1 billion.
I think sometimes that fact is overlooked by the analysts that follow us.
And we've continued to chip away at it on a fairly regular basis.
We'd be much happier to use our precious equity at higher prices than they are today but if we had a tremendous opportunity that we felt made sense we'd look at it.
Research Division</strong> And then just to follow up a little bit on Phoenix.
You put that graph up and you're talking about sort of 1D 2D [ph] incremental price increases.
So just curious what's actually happening specifically in Phoenix in a typical market at -- 2 months supply that would be a great kind of market for you to really see price increases but clearly this isn't a typical market.
So what are you seeing specifically in Phoenix in terms of prices? Phoenix specifically -- in the last few months especially many of our communities have seen net price increases.
And I use that term because for us it really doesn't matter what comes in base price or what's in the reduction of concession.
It's really -- net price is all that matters.
And we've been steadily tweaking net pricing up in Phoenix over this last quarter.
It's always a delicate balance and a trade-off between that and velocity which really helps our operating returns as well.
But thus far in Phoenix specifically we've had good success raising prices.
Research Division</strong> Much higher than that sort of 0.3% you're talking about or kind of in line with that? I don't know percentage-wise but I'd say it's been -- in the last quarter pricewise it's one of the healthy markets.
I think it's the best community by community but it wouldn't surprise me if on average the price increases are slightly higher in Phoenix than they've been elsewhere.
Your next question comes from the line of Kristen McDuffy with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you a little bit more about the liquidity levers that you guys have listed in the past.
You mentioned that you sell leaseback on 86 of 217 model homes.
Do you expect to continue to do that sort of activity? And if so should we think about the remaining model homes as being roughly worth what you got for the first 86? I think it would be something that we would look at and potentially do.
I can't address -- I -- if I stood in your shoes I'd do the same kind of percentages if you can get the percentages of -- I'm just not sure where the geographic mix of those models are or the product mix of those models versus what we've actually done.
So that portion of the question I can't really answer.
But we're always interested if we can do something to enhance our return on invested capital ROI.
And we think we can do that by having less cash invested in models and more cash invest in our core homebuilding business.
That's something we'd be interested in doing if the cost of the models sale leasebacks remains single digit.
We certainly can earn much better returns on that in our core homebuilding business.
I will emphasize: We've been doing sale -- model sale leasebacks for a long long time.
There certainly was a larger slug than normal and slightly unusual in that there were transactions where we participate in the upside hence you see a slightly different accounting treatment.
Oftentimes we'd sell the models at a higher cost than this but we have no participation in the upside.
So this is going to be unique opportunity that we want to take advantage of for several of them.
Research Division</strong> And can you also update us on any progress with respect to land banking opportunities? I'd say -- go ahead Larry.
People that -- have approached us months and months ago and years ago.
There's probably fewer land bankers out there than there used to be but it seems like there's a few tiptoeing back into the market that it will be interesting to see whether a transaction is going to actually occur.
Research Division</strong> And just one last question in light of kind of the new sales pace that you guys are experiencing.
Over the next couple of years do you expect to replenish inventory at the same rate that you sell through maybe draw down or build inventory in terms of your land purchase intentions? We really don't make projections on what we're going to do land purchase-wise.
What I would say though in general our focus is on more inventory turns.
So to the extent we could own a month's worth of land and have the balance optioned we would love to do that.
It's difficult to do but that would certainly be an optimum use of our cash.
In general I'd say we strive toward a shorter ownership position but a lengthy controlled position through options.
Your next question comes from the line of Joel Locker with FBN Securities.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on actual interest expense.
It just jumped up a little bit.
You expensed more.
And your interest incurred actually fell which should fall a little further with the -- more paydown of debt.
But just wondering going forward like looking at that what do you expect from an interest expense line item? Well I think interest is up in the other interest line for this particular quarter because the assets that qualify for capitalization were down.
And we have to look at the assets and the status that they're in in terms of under construction or if the land is under development to capital that interest.
And if they're -- if that total value goes down we expense more of the interest that we've incurred in the period.
I think if you looked at the 6-month -- over the whole 6-month period and took that on a quarterly basis it's probably closer than what you'll see on a quarterly rate going forward.
But that will depend on what we do in terms of new land acquisitions and what we put under development so...
But in general we've been expensing more than we've been incurring.
And over time you'd expect -- and therefore capitalized interest on our balance sheet has been going down.
Over time that should -- so the expense and the incurred should get more in line than it has been recently.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And just a follow-up question on say Phoenix.
Your owned lot supply there is -- in the Southwest based on forward earning -- forward deliveries is probably more like 0.9 versus the 1.1.
And just was curious what it was in Phoenix on your owned lot side based on the trailing 12 months or forward 12 months or how...
Yes unfortunately we don't give market-by-market specifics beyond the segment data but I will give you a hint.
And that is that we're able to control primarily by options on adjusted signed basis land in the Houston and in Dallas which is why the year supply is 0.9 in the Southwest segment.
But I'm not going to give you specifics for a market segment in Arizona.
Yes I'll tell you just in general we're making some progress in Phoenix and feel pretty good about some recent land commitments.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Barrón with Housing Research Center.
LLC</strong> I wanted to ask you -- one thing that I'm a little bit struggling with is even though your orders were up huge your inventory was down sequentially and year-over-year.
One would think that if your orders are growing that much you'd have to start putting in more capital to work.
So was there just a delayed reaction? Or how should I think about it over the balance of the year? I mean it's the inventory turns.
I mean we try to be pretty specific in the prepared remarks but we are finding ways to turn our inventory more rapidly which I think will work.
Now a lot of what we sold during the quarter we haven't built at quarter end so you're not going to instantaneously see an impact on inventory just because we sold a bunch of homes.
It's more looking at what's in backlog and under construction compared to appropriated at the time.
But our overall objective is to turn inventory more rapidly so that you can actually do more volume with the same amount of capital or even less.
And I think Larry mentioned comparing the same quarter of this year to last year our inventory turn increased about 30% so that can make a pretty significant difference.
And that's part of our overall strategy: try to do more turns with the inventory we have.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So I guess related to that same issue would you expect your cash balance to drop below the $175 million you guys had mentioned at some point or not really? And I'd still like to ask a second question.
It will be your third question.
But we're managing the business to try to stay within that $175 million to $240 million or $170 million to $245 million total cash balance.
Those are kind of the – accelerators  or brakes to our ability to invest in new land deals so that's really the governor to -- for that.
We're not planning to fall below the $170 million but we are comfortable at the lower end of the range as we've previously mentioned.
And feel free to ask a third question.
LLC</strong> Larry my other question was can you -- since you mentioned your commissions that are inside your cost of goods sold can you help me understand on your SG&amp;A what – how should I think about what portion is fixed and what portion is variable? I mean going forward we think we can do  lot more volume without very much increases in SG&amp;A at all.
I mean at corporate think of it as almost -- unless you want to get rid of a CFO or a CEO and run the company without us we think most of corporate is pretty much fixed at this point in time.
And frankly the same thing's true at our various businesses.
We shrunk those very significantly during this unprecedented industry downturn.
I mean our overall headcount's down 78% I think from the peak something along those lines.
So the people that are left and the costs that are left are for the most part fixed.
The -- obviously you can -- incremental decisions on advertising cost and those kinds of things community-specific.
Or if you add a incremental additional community you'll need another construction superintendent and 1 sales person or 2 and maybe a receptionist but it's pretty incremental cost as we grow communities.
So the rest of it we kind of look at as fixed.
It just depends on your definition of fixed.
LLC</strong> Yes I know because I -- usually most of the time when I model SG&amp;A I assume a -- certain dollars is kind of like you said people who are on staff and stuff like that and some of it is generally variable because of commissions and what have you.
I'm just kind of looking at -- you guys booked $35 million this year and I'm trying to -- I know your revenues are going to go up in the back half because of the growth in backlog and deliveries.
I'm just trying to figure out how much leverage you guys are going to post and whether you're expecting they will start showing up operating profit in the back half.
Well I'll just tell you that we're not anticipating adding much in -- if anything in the way of people than you can model that -- as you see appropriate.
Your next question comes from the line of Susan Berliner with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Larry I just wanted to follow-up on the model leaseback I guess.
I know it's in liabilities from inventory not owned.
Should we be thinking that as a debt? Because I know you said I think it's sub-10% rate.
And what kind of maturities should we be thinking about there? Yes it depends on the individual model.
I mean they're going to roll off as we roll out of those individual communities it's a self rule.
So each model sale leaseback has its own individual term.
I mean on average our community lives that we've been doing on new identified is roughly 2 years so that might be as good a benchmark as you can think about it in terms of.
But at the time those roll off it's going to come through as revenues like we're selling the home then from a GAAP accounting perspective.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then the second question was can you give any color on the land sale I guess where it was and with regards to was it part of mothballed land or active land? Yes.
The big sale was in Orlando where we had a very large land position it's in a very good and successful community.
But we had bought a big land position several year's worth.
So we still kept a couple of years worth and sold the excess land beyond that.
Research Division</strong> And was that part of mothball or active? No it wasn't mothballed.
It's actively selling community.
And as I mentioned it's selling quite well and with reasonable profits as well.
But we didn't want to own 5 years worth of land and we thought it would be smarter to just keep a couple of years worth.
I'd ideally like to keep 1 month's worth and just keep turning it over but we took the longer end of that position sold that.
And those are the dollar that we'll deploy into shorter land positions which is part of our overall strategy.
Another -- further evidence of inventory turn focus.
Yes.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question is a follow-up from the line of Andrew Casella with Imperial Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just how much capacity do you have left to do the 3(a)(9) exchanges? I know in the past you've discussed that you do have some limitations on that.
If you could give any color that would be helpful.
I think Larry he's probably referring to how much capacity we could -- we have and not affect our NOL.
Is that your question? Is that the question NOL-related? Because 3(a)(9) we don't have any individual limitation on that that I'm aware of from accounting perspective or regulatory perspective.
If you are referring to the NOL limitation what I said in my prepared remarks is that we could issue an additional 100 million shares of HOV common without limiting our ability to utilize our NOLs.
LLC Research Division</strong> And that's even with doing a sort of 3(a)(9) exchanges as opposed to doing a secondary offering? I think it's a little lower Larry correct me if I'm wrong if you do it the… It's just slightly lower.
It is slightly lower but I don't have an absolute number.
It's not materially...
It -- yes slightly lower if you do it through 3(a)(9).
This concludes the Q&amp;A session for today's call.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Ara Hovnanian for any closing remarks.
Thank you very much.
We are pleased to give the results which are much improved in the second quarter and look forward to giving even better results in the back half of the year.
Thank you.
This concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you for your participating and have a nice day.
All parties may now disconnect.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for Hovnanian Enterprises’ Fiscal 2012 Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
An archive of the webcast will be available after the completion of the call and run for 12 months.
This conference is being recorded for rebroadcast.
[Operator Instructions] Management will make some opening remarks about the third quarter results and then open up the line for questions.
The company will also be webcasting a slide presentation along with the opening comments from management.
The slides are available on the Investors page of the company's website at www.khov.com.
Those listeners who would like to follow along should log onto the website at this time.
Before we begin I would like to turn the call over to Jeff O'Keefe Vice President of Investor Relations.
Jeff please go ahead.
Thank you.
I'm just going to read a -- some forward-looking statements very quickly.
All statements during this conference call that are not historical facts should be considered as forward-looking statements.
Such statements involve known and unknown risks uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results performance or achievements of the company to be materially different from any future results performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements.
Although we believe that our plans intentions and expectations reflected in or suggested by such forward-looking statements are reasonable we can give no assurance that such plans intentions or expectations will be achieved.
Such risks uncertainties and other factors include but are not limited to changes in general and local economic and industry and business conditions and impacts of the sustained homebuilding downturn; adverse weather and other environmental conditions and natural disasters; changes in market conditions and seasonality of the company's business; changes in home prices and sales activity in the markets where the company builds homes; government regulation including regulations concerning development of land the homebuilding sales and customer financing processes tax laws and the environment; fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of mortgage financing; shortages in and price fluctuations of raw materials and labor; the availability and cost of suitable land and improved lots; levels of competition; availability of financing to the company; utility shortages and outages or rate fluctuations; levels of indebtedness and restrictions on the company's operations and activities imposed by the agreements governing the company's outstanding indebtedness; the company's sources of liquidity; changes in credit ratings; availability of net operating loss carryforwards; operations through joint ventures with third parties; product liability litigation warranty claims and claims by mortgage investors; successful identification and integration of acquisitions; significant influence of the company's controlling stockholders; changes in tax laws affecting the after-tax cost of owning a home; geopolitical risks terrorist acts and other acts of war; and other factors described in detail in the company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 31 2011 and the company's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended April 30 2012.
Except as otherwise required by applicable securities laws we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information future events changed circumstances or any other reason.
With that out of the way I'll now turn the call over to Ara Hovnanian our Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer.
Ara go ahead.
Thanks Jeff and thank you all for participating in this morning's call to review the results of our third quarter and 9 months ended July 2012.
Joining me today from the company are Larry Sorsby Executive Vice President and CFO; Brad O'Connor Vice President Chief Accounting Officer and Corporate Controller; David Valiaveedan Vice President of Finance and Treasurer; and Jeff O'Keefe Vice President of Investor Relations.
On Slide 3 you can see a brief summary of our third quarter results and comparisons to the prior year's third quarter.
All in all we had a solid quarter by every metric.
Our net contracts increased 32% on a dollar basis and the number of contracts were up 19%.
Although we opened 22 new communities during the quarter our community count declined slightly to 194 compared to 202 at the end of July last year.
This decline was primarily due to selling through communities much more quickly than we anticipated with our solid sales pace.
Compared to this year's second quarter we had a decrease of 5 communities sequentially.
The dollar value of our contract backlog and total revenues both rose more than 35% during the third quarter.
Our land-related charges were significantly lower at less than $1 million.
Our gross margin increased 290 basis points and SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales decreased 390 basis points.
As a result our pretax income improved dramatically just shy of breakeven at a loss of $1.8 million compared to a pretax loss of $56 million the year before.
Our net income for the third quarter was positive $34.7 million compared to a net loss of $50.9 million last year.
The current year includes a $37 million reversal of state tax reserves related to previously uncertain tax positions that have effectively been settled.
Slide 4 shows recent contracts on a monthly and average weekly basis.
Each month during the third quarter held pretty steady with just over 500 contracts.
If you look on an average weekly basis you see that our July pace was slightly lower but our weekly pace bounced right back in August.
Frankly the normal seasonal pattern would be to show a slight decline each month from the peak spring selling month of March right on through the summer.
As this slide indicates our sales pace held steady this year bucking the normal seasonal decline.
Given the quality and steady flow of traffic that we have seen in our sales centers we are feeling pretty good about our sales pace and the prospect for continued success.
On Slide 5 we show net contracts per community on a monthly basis.
Since the beginning of the fiscal year we had more net contracts per community every month this year than we did over the same on the prior fiscal year.
Slide 6 shows that based on the first 9 months of the year our annualized net contract pace is 28.7 homes per community.
This represents a 35% improvement over 2011 levels but still are far off from a normalized sales pace of about 44 homes per community per year between 1997 and 2002 neither boom nor bust years.
So while 28.7 feels a lot better than 17.7 that we experienced just a few years ago there's still further to go before we are back to normal.
Read this as lots of upside opportunities to come.
We ended the third quarter with 194 active selling communities as seen on Slide 7.
That's slightly lower than where it was at the end of the second quarter.
Due to the industry's rebound and our increase in sales pace our communities are selling out more quickly and clearly caught us without being able to replenish as fast as we'd like.
While this faster sales pace drives increased revenues and profits as well as improvements in inventory turnover we're still working hard to increase our community count so we can grow our top line even faster and we're making some progress.
You turn to Slide 8.
We continue to look for new land opportunities throughout all of our markets.
Our land acquisition associates have been very busy which has resulted in a full land committee calendar here at corporate.
During the third quarter of 2012 we optioned 2 200 lots bringing the total new land controls since January of '09 to 19 500 lots in 344 communities.
During the third quarter we spent $117.6 million on land and land development.
To put this in perspective we spent only $118 million on land and land development for the first 6 months of the year.
We are not stretching or reaching in order to buy more land deals during the third quarter.
The increased land spend was a function of finding more land deals that underwrote to a 25% plus IRR based on the current sales pace and the current sales prices.
The improvements we have seen in home prices and sales paces around the country are justifying higher land prices.
This in turn causes more land sellers to consider selling which creates more opportunities for us to buy land while maintaining our IRR underwriting criteria.
Let me now turn to our operating performance which has improved during the third quarter.
Slide 9 shows our quarterly gross margin for the past 6 quarters.
The gross margin was 18.2% for the third quarter of 2012 a 290-basis-point improvement over last year's third quarter.
This was the fifth consecutive sequential increase in gross margin.
Additionally the 18.2% gross margin was the highest we've reported for any quarter since the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006.
During the third quarter of 2012 there were $17.3 million of impairment reversals related to deliveries compared to $25 million in the third quarter of 2011.
Some of this 290-basis point-improvement in gross margin is attributable to more of our deliveries coming from newly identified land.
During the third quarter 67% of our wholly-owned deliveries were from newly identified land.
Given the fact that 85% of our wholly owned open-for-sale communities -- excuse me given the fact that 85% of our wholly owned open-for-sale communities are from newly identified land parcels gross margins should continue to edge up as we realize deliveries from these communities.
This 290-basis-point improvement gets us even closer to a normalized gross margin.
If you look at Slide 10 you can see the 20% gross margin that we reported in 2000 and 2001 again neither boom nor bust years and it's closer to what we consider normal.
While we don't expect the sequential increased trajectory that we've seen for the last 5 quarters to continue quite so steadily going forward we do expect the gross margin to gradually improve and get back to the 20% to 21% range.
We also made great strides in lowering our SG&amp;A as a percentage of total revenues.
The right-hand side of Slide 11 shows that in absolute dollars total SG&amp;A increased by $1.6 million in the third quarter of 2012 compared to last year's third quarter.
However total revenues for the third quarter increased by more than $100 million.
So SG&amp;A as a percentage of total revenue for the third quarter which we show under the bars on the right-hand side decreased significantly to 12.4% compared to 16.3% last year.
Once again this illustrates that as we increase the volume of deliveries thereby increasing revenues our total SG&amp;A has only minimally increased giving us tremendous leverage as we grow deliveries.
The left-hand side of this slide shows a normalized percentage which should be in the 10% to 11% range.
Over time we expect further improvements in this operating metric and we expect to see it get back to these more typical levels.
As we look forward we expect continued improvements on our gross margins and SG&amp;A which will push us even further down the path of returned sustainable profitability.
On Slide 12 we show a rising trend for the total revenues for the past 3 quarters.
On the next slide Slide 13 we see gross margin improving total SG&amp;A as a percentage of total revenues declining interest expense as a percentage of total revenues declining and our pretax loss before land-related charges and gain on extinguishment of debt declining to just under breakeven.
When looking at this data you should focus on the fact that as our revenues gross margins and SG&amp;A and interest percentage have improved sequentially our pretax losses have quickly diminished.
Given our high sales pace and backlog we expect to continue this trend of higher revenues in the fourth quarter.
The key to maintaining sustained profitability for us is to be able to control enough land so that we can continue growing our deliveries and our revenues.
We're working hard to replenish our land inventory.
While new communities never open quickly enough for our liking we are having good success with solid new land acquisitions.
However because we are selling through communities more quickly than we originally anticipated 2013 deliveries are likely to be weighted toward the second half of the year when our newly acquired land parcels will begin delivery.
Now I'll turn it over to Larry who will discuss our inventory liquidity and mortgage operations as well as a few other topics.
Thanks Ara.
I'll discuss the changes in our newly identified land position during the third quarter.
The bottom right-hand side of Slide 14 shows that total additions during the quarter were 2 200 lots.
We also walked away from about 400 newly identified lots.
The net result for the third quarter was that our total lots purchased or controlled since January 2009 increased about 1 800 lots sequentially from the second quarter of 2012.
An important takeaway here is that we are replenishing our land faster than we're using it.
In fact our total owned and optioned lot position increased sequentially by 674 lots in the third quarter.
Turning to Slide #15.
You'll see our owned and optioned land position broken out by our publicly reported segments.
Based on our trailing 12-month deliveries we own 3.9 years’ worth of land.
However if you exclude the 6 826 mothballed lots we only own 2.3 years of land based on the delivery rate of the past 4 quarters.
At the end of the third quarter 74% of our optioned lots were newly identified lots and 26% of our owned lots were newly identified lots.
If you exclude mothballed lots 45% of our owned lots are newly acquired.
When you combine our optioned and owned land together 45% of the total lots that we control today are newly identified lots.
Excluding mothballed lots 60% of our total lots are newly identified lots.
Our investment in land option deposits was $40.6 million at July 31 2012 with $39.4 million in cash deposits and the other $1.2 million of deposits being held by letters of credit.
Additionally we have another $4.6 million invested in predevelopment expenses.
Turning to Slide 16.
We show our mothballed lots of broken out by geographic segment.
In total we have 6 826 mothballed lots within 54 communities that were mothballed as of July 31 2012.
The book value at the end of the third quarter for these remaining mothballed lots was $128 million net of an impairment balance of $465 million.
We are carrying these mothballed lots at 22% of the original value.
Since 2009 we have unmothballed 3 400 lots within 58 communities including 200 lots in one community during the third quarter of fiscal 2012.
Looking at all of our consolidated communities in the aggregate including mothballed communities we have an inventory book value of about $922 million net of $702.7 million of impairments which we recorded on 111 of our communities.
Of the properties that have been impaired we're carrying them at 24% of their pre-impaired value.
On the balance sheet you may have noticed the increase in consolidated inventory not owned.
The increase was primarily attributable to a land banking relationship that we entered into with GSO Capital Partners LP the credit arm of The Blackstone Group during the third quarter.
We received $37.1 million from GSO for the initial phase of the land banking arrangement for 6 parcels of land consisting of 620 lots.
GSO has agreed to fund the remaining land development cost and to deliver these as finished lots thus on an agreed-upon quarterly takedown schedule.
The gross margin on these GSO communities are not impacted by the transaction.
Despite selling these 620 lots to GSO under GAAP the agreement is considered a financing because we previously owned the land and because of our ongoing involvement.
As such the inventory remains on our balance sheet as inventory not owned and the premium paid to acquire the lots will be reflected as other interest expense on our P&amp;L.
GSO has also agreed to fund acquisition development cost on additional land parcels totaling up to $60 million.
We have already identified and are in due diligence with GSO on sufficient land parcels to fully fund the second phase of our GSO land banking arrangement.
In fact during August we closed on 1 additional 136-lot land parcel that is part of this second phase of our GSO land banking agreement.
Last quarter we received a lot of positive comments regarding the slides we showed that compared our gross margin to the most recent quarter of the other public home builders’ gross margins on an apples-to-apples basis.
So we are showing a similar comparison again this quarter.
Slide 17 shows gross margins for us and our peers on an unadjusted basis and therefore does not reflect an apples-to-apples comparison.
The gray arrow indicates the year-over-year change in gross margin for each public builder.
And you will note that our 290-basis-point improvement was one of the highest increases amongst our 12 peers.
Unfortunately not all public builders report gross margin the same way.
Pulte NVR and ourselves include commissions in the cost of sales while the remaining public builders include all or a portion of those costs in SG&amp;A.
Turning to Slide 18.
We have attempted to compare all public builders' gross margins on an apples-to-apples basis.
To do this we reduced the gross margins of KB Homes Lennar MDC M/I Homes Meritage and Standard Pacific by the same 3.5% that our sales commissions totaled in our third quarter.
For builders who publicly report sales commissions and responded to industry surveys we reduced their gross margins per the amounts contained in their SEC filings or per the estimates we've footnoted on this slide.
As you can see once these adjustments are made our 18.2% gross margin puts us in the middle of the pack.
To be fair we also need to show you a similar apples-to-apples comparison to our peers for SG&amp;A for the most recent quarter.
Turning to Slide 19.
As footnoted on the slide we reduced SG&amp;A amounts by the same adjustments we made on the previous slide for all public builders who include all or some portion of these sales commissions in SG&amp;A.
Once these reductions in SG&amp;A costs are made for our peers our 12.8% SG&amp;A is just slightly above the 12.4% average for our 12 peers and we expect to reduce our SG&amp;A ratio even further during our fourth quarter.
While we still have further improvements to make in order to return both our gross margin and SG&amp;A ratios back to normal levels we're pleased with our progress to date.
Now turning to Slide 20.
The number of started unsold homes excluding models and unconsolidated joint ventures increased slightly from the second quarter.
We ended the third quarter with 761 started unsold homes.
This translates to 4.3 started unsold homes per active selling community which is lower than our long-term average of about 4.8 unsold homes per community.
Another area of discussion for the quarter is related to our current and deferred tax asset valuation allowance.
At the end of the third quarter the valuation allowance in the aggregate was $909.1 million.
Our valuation allowance is a very significant asset not currently reflected on our balance sheet and we've taken steps to protect it.
We expect to be able to reverse this allowance after we generate consecutive years of solid profitability and can continue to project solid profitability going forward.
When the reversal does occur we expect the remaining allowance to be added back to our shareholders' equity further strengthening our balance sheet.
Today we could issue approximately 100 million additional shares of common HOV stock for cash without limiting our ability to utilize our NOLs.
We ended the third quarter with total shareholders' deficit of $404 million.
If you add back the total valuation allowance as we've done on Slide 21 then our shareholders' equity would be $505 million.
Let me reiterate that the tax asset valuation allowance is for GAAP purposes only.
For tax purposes our tax assets may be carried forward for 20 years from occurrence and we expect to utilize those tax loss carryforwards as we generate profits in the future.
For the first $2 billion of pretax profits we generate we will not have to pay federal income taxes.
Now let me update you briefly on our mortgage operations.
Turning to Slide 22.
You can see here that the credit quality of our mortgage customers continues to be strong with an average FICO score of 744.
For the third quarter of fiscal 2012 our mortgage company captured 73% of our non-cash homebuying customers.
Turning to Slide 23.
We show a breakout of all the various loan types originated by our mortgage operations in the third quarter of fiscal 2012 compared to all of fiscal 2011.
26% of our originations were FHA during the third quarter of fiscal 2012 compared to the 34% we sold during all of fiscal 2011.
We believe that this decline in FHA business is primarily related to the increased M/I cost FHA adopted in April 2012.
Our conforming conventional originations increased to 55% during the third quarter compared to 47% during all of fiscal 2011.
Regarding the make whole and repurchase requests received from various banks we continue to believe that the majority of these requests that we've received are unjustified.
On Slide 24 you'll see our payments from fiscal 2008 through the third quarter of fiscal 2012.
During the first 9 months of 2012 our repayments were only $1.3 million on 9 loans.
During the third quarter of 2012 we received 15 repurchased inquiries which was higher than the average of 10 repurchased inquiries for all of 2011 but lower than the 22 requests we got in the second quarter this year.
Any losses resulting from repurchase and make whole requests have been adequately reserved for in previous periods.
At the end of the third quarter our reserve for loan repurchases and make whole requests were $7.4 million which we believe is adequate for our exposure.
To date mortgage repurchases have not been a significant problem but we will continue to monitor this issue closely.
Now turning to our debt maturity ladder which can be found on Slide 25.
During the third quarter of 2012 we used $1.5 million of cash to repurchase $2 million face value of bonds.
At the end of the third quarter we have approximately $132 million of restricted payment capacity left to repurchase additional bonds.
Additionally as you may have seen with the 8-Ks that we filed during the third quarter we have entered into several 3(a)(9) debt for equity exchanges.
During the third quarter we exchanged 5.4 million shares of common stock for approximately $21 million of debt.
That brings the total exchanges to date to 8.4 million shares exchanged for $33.2 million of debt.
As we look forward we have only $47 million of debt that matures before 2015 and an additional $82 million of debt that matures before 2016.
So far this year we've reduced our debt by $169 million and since the end of fiscal 2008 we have reduced our debt by $1.1 billion.
Since we announced our second quarter results we have been pleased to see all of our bonds trading at higher and higher prices.
Our 10 5/8% secured notes due 2016 are trading well above par at over 105 and the yield to worst is in the mid-8% range.
We will continue to opportunistically take steps to better position our balance sheet going forward.
As you can see on Slide 26 after spending $117.6 million on land and land development we ended the third quarter of fiscal 2012 with approximately $252 million in homebuilding cash including cash used to collateralize letters of credit.
This is the second quarter in a row where we’ve had sequential growth in our cash position.
Although this level of cash exceeds the high-end of our cash target range of $170 million to $245 million as we have stated on prior calls we remain comfortable operating at the low-end of the range.
We continue to look for land deals in all our markets and we'll continue to put dollars to work in land deals that meet our 25% IRR hurdle rate.
We expect our land spend during the fourth quarter to be at similar levels to that of the third quarter.
Our ability to increase our cash balance to $252 million clearly demonstrates that we can maintain our liquidity while we remain active in completing land development and replenishing our land position for future growth.
That concludes our prepared remarks and we'll open it up for any questions you might have.
[Operator Instructions] And gentlemen your first question today comes from the line of Michael Rehaut with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Jason Marcus in for Mike.
The first question is regarding the dollar value of the orders versus the unit growth.
I was hoping you could maybe comment on the increased spread that we saw in the third quarter and it looks like that accelerated in August to 49% versus only 26% for the unit.
Is this a trend that you think -- expect to -- that you expect to continue? Or is it perhaps more related to geographic mix or something a bit more temporary? I think it’s a combination of geographic and product mix with a sprinkling in of our ability to increase prices.
So I think it’s all 3 of those things that are impacting it.
Research Division</strong> Okay and you expect that to continue? Hard to predict what the mix is going to be from one quarter to the next but that's what been causing it.
We certainly hope that the price increases that we've been able to do continue.
I will say overall given the very low interest rates we're definitely seeing a bias toward customers picking the larger houses.
And I think the logic is with rates so low the incremental monthly cost is not particularly great.
So if they have good credit scores recently we've seen a little bit more leaning toward the larger model homes than the average one that we had been experiencing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the next question is I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about pricing and incentive trends as they occurred throughout the quarter.
And also maybe if you could comment a bit on recent raw material costs and how that may have impacted your gross margin.
Yes.
Well net pricing which is all we really care about has definitely been improving in most of our market at many of our communities.
Actually there have been very few that have gone the other way.
And the second part of your question is on material costs they definitely have been creeping up but needless to say clear from our margins we've been able to get price increases that have been outpacing any cost increases that we've experienced.
Your next question is from the line of Dan Oppenheim with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Mike Dahl on for Dan.
Hoping to drill down into the land banking agreement a bit more.
Could you talk about the composition both geographically and by product of the portfolio that you've already sold? Because if I look at $37 million that you received in cash plus the $65 million of development costs that seems to imply quite a high finished lot price.
I think your math is wrong.
It's not plus $65 million of development cost.
The acquisition and development cost is estimated to be $65 million on that initial phase that we did with Blackstone/GSO.
Larry I think he's referring to the maybe the remaining land development cost.
No I don't think so.
$60 million on the remaining Ara.
So $65 million is related to the first phase of the $125 million.
So we did $37.1 million was the cash proceeds.
They're agreeing to fund the remaining development cost on that phase and then in addition to that they've agreed to fund additional land parcels for total acquisition development cost of $60 million.
But to more fully answer the other part of your question is it's broadly dispersed geographically as well as by product type.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess I may have some follow-ups off-line on that one.
And then just strategically with this agreement since you will be taking it down quarterly finished lot take-downs should we think of this as  freeing up additional working capital in the meantime to go out and pursue additional lot deals? Or is this more like a near-term preservation of capital? We’ve not changed our cash balance targets so you should consider that it allows us to buy even more land parcels and grow even more.
Your next question is from the line of Ivy Zelman with Zelman &amp; Associates.
Research Division</strong> I just have a few questions.
Realizing Larry your backlog conversion is currently running at 63% and versus a year ago 77%.
Can you give us an idea if that backlog conversion is sort of where you are thinking going forward? And we're seeing a lot of constraints in Texas specifically and other markets on labor.
I'm wondering if you're seeing delays on the ability to close homes and if you can talk about what we should be using as guidance for 2013 or at least not '13 but just sort of thinking about near and intermediate term.
And I think the other thing we'd love to hear your thoughts are in Phoenix where you operate kind of looking specifically at sales trends there as we've seen some slowing there it may be greater than other markets slowing.
And wondering if it's that you've ran out of lots and do you see any reason that there's anything else going on there? Is it just a function of absorption pace was much faster and a lot of guys are kind of waiting to open new communities more in a favorable climate or a seasonality opportunity? Ivy I'm going to take a shot on some of it.
I'm sure Ara will take a shot at some and then you'll probably have to remind us of the ones that we forgot to answer.
In fact refresh my memory on your very first comment.
Backlog conversion rate.
Backlog conversion rate is just not something we track.
I mean we have better insights into what we expect to deliver and it's just not a metric that we've tracked historically at all because we do a bottoms-up budgeting and every month get new data from our divisions on what they expect to close.
So I can't really comment on the change in that.
I wouldn't -- although we've heard some comments from our divisions recently about some concerns about labor none of them are indicating that it has impacted their ability to get things closed timely at this point so I don't think it's related to that particular issue which is what I think you were really pulsing on.
Ara you want to touch base on Phoenix? Yes just the other additional comment on backlog conversion.
Again as Larry said it was not something we track but I think what's basically happening is we are just -- with the increase in sales environment we are selling further out ahead and I think that translates to what you're focusing on maybe a slightly lower backlog conversion.
Phoenix I mean obviously we're in the dead of summer or just finished the dead of summer which is their slow season as they get up over 100 degrees all the time.
Generally speaking Phoenix is rock-solid and we've been enjoying really good and steady price increasing in many of our communities there.
So we haven't seen any slowing whatsoever there right now other than the obvious summer selling season which is typical.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just one other follow-up.
Larry as we talk about a little bit on the raw materials side -- and Ara you answered the question by saying you’re able to at least pass through home price appreciation to mitigate inflation of raw materials.
Just looking at sort of going forward when you're underwriting ground what kind of assumptions do you guys use for raw material inflation or labor inflation to get to those 25% hurdle rates? Our historical and current practice and we've done it this way for many decades is we're not smart enough to know what's going to happen to home prices and we're not smart enough to know what's going to happen to raw material and labor prices so when we underwrite a land parcel we assume then current home prices home paces and then current cost to construct.
Historically whenever we've seen times that we've had increases in labor or raw material cost we've been able to offset them by having home price increases.
We don't know whether that'll be the case in the future or not but we certainly hope so.
Gentlemen your next question is from the line of David Goldberg with UBS.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Susan for David.
Just you guys noted that you have already identified 136 lots I think it's 136 to put into the second phase of the GSO deal.
I'm just wondering how do you decide what lots to buy through that? Does that process differ at all significantly from your traditional acquisition criteria? Does GSO have any say in it? Have they put any terms around a certain geographic or sort of product standpoint? GSO's been very flexible.
They're willing to look at almost any geography and almost any product type.
And our underwriting criteria have satisfied their underwriting criteria to date on the parcels that we've submitted them with very few exceptions.
So we -- the main criteria is that it be a large enough parcel to go through the extra work involved and put it into a land bank and that it has sufficient shelf life that makes sense to do it is as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And do you feel like there's enough so that you can -- the GSO deal's large enough to service the current growth rate that you're seeing? I mean we have our own cash too.
We're not doing everything through GSO by any stretch.
So we think this is additive to the growth we anticipated without GSO.
Research Division</strong> And then just one more question.
In terms of the land that you're taking out from being mothballed if we sort of think about the parcels that are still in there what percentage of that approximate would you say is higher quality where you could develop it over the relative near-term and generate an acceptable return on capital versus what percent would say be lower quality and maybe where the profitability is still somewhat weaker? I think by definition when it's mothballed it probably means that it's not hitting a hurdle rate that makes a lot of sense from our perspective and therefore we've put it on the shelf.
And as we've already unmothballed 58 communities we constantly assess it and look to bring them back on when it makes sense in that particular micromarket.
So we're constantly looking at that and hope to continue to bring some of that mothballed back on in the future.
As the market improves overall I think the value and the attractiveness of everybody's mothballed lots looks a lot better.
So I think in general the industry will see some pleasant surprises in the coming periods regarding mothballed lots.
Your next question is from the line of Joel Locker with FBN Securities.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just as -- I guess getting back to the direct cost what do you expect to -- can you quantify what you think they'll be in the fourth quarter versus a year-ago fourth quarter including labor and material? I don't think we have clear data points that I can give you any precision on that but I think they've inched up a little would be my reaction.
We've avoided increases and certainly on the branded products we have a lot of national contracts that have helped us a lot during this period of time and then on certain things we've taken big increases.
We talked in the past about the increases that we saw on wallboard.
There's been other -- in individual markets where we've seen increases but I can't quantify -- I don’t know Ara whether you have a sense at all what it is but we don't have any kind of way of giving you any precise answer to that other than to say maybe it's inched up a little bit.
On the whole what we can say is we're comfortable right now that any cost increases are at least being offset by home price increases.
I mean basically what happens is as the markets heat up and there’s more activity the subcontractors try to take advantage of that by inching up the prices.
Well by definition if it's happening in markets that are heating up the homebuilders typically have the opportunity to raise prices in that environment too.
So it's been a balance which has actually been slightly in our favor.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And do you expect that trajectory to increase now that you have a higher backlog and now that it'll be even busier trying to deliver homes going forward on the labor side and same with the material side? Everything is relative.
Putting it in perspective the average national housing starts were at 1.6 million per year even at this improved pace where it's 780 000 per year let's say as an industry so we're way below normal.
On the other hand it's about a 30% improvement from last year.
So I think there will be pricing pressures but it doesn't concern us too much because of the home pricing opportunities right now.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And I guess on the corporate expense going forward do you expect that in the $12 million range as you've kept it relatively low even though you increased revenues? Or do you think some stock comp will start working in there where that'll start increasing also? Yes we don't make any projections precisely on corporate overhead.
I think sitting in your chair the best you can do is just assume that it's going to stay at the level that we've been running.
Your next question is from the line of Nishu Sood with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask first about your gross margins.
Ara you showed that chart very impressive-looking chart from I think the last 6 quarters from in the 14% range it’s now over 18%.
Certainly one of the better charts if we did that for the whole group amongst the builders.
So if we were to think about the causes of that over the last 5 months I mean your legacy land communities that's been a shrinking percentage.
You've had some home price increases obviously maybe some operating leverage -- some leverage in the gross margin line.
I know you can't quantify it exactly but I just wanted to hear your thoughts on what you think has been most important in driving the gross margin trend over the past 6 quarters.
It's really been a little bit of everything.
I can't point to any one thing.
But we certainly -- our continued focus on new land acquisitions has been helpful.
The product mix orientation has been helpful.
I think we've really done a good job on the purchasing and design sides.
And our ability to get some price increases through has helped.
So it's been a little bit of everything.
No one particular thing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the next thing just a question on the land banking arrangement.
Just a point of clarification the remaining $60 million that is going to be direct into that is that from your balance sheet? Or is that third -- or is that land purchased in the market? Could be either.
Everything we've done to date we owned and then sold to them but we could do land that we identified and then they buy it instead of us buying it.
So it just depends.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just a real quick on the state tax reserve.
I think we've seen that from some of your peers as well.
I was just wondering if you could just give us a little bit more color on that.
What triggered that? It’s a pretty material amount obviously.
Is there further reserves that could be reversed? Just some more details on that please.
Primarily the passage of time is what allowed us to reverse it and I wouldn't expect anything of substance on the state tax going forward.
Your next call is from the line of Adam Rudiger with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could follow up on some of your comments on closing out of communities faster and your goals of aggressively trying to open new ones.
If you can provide us any guidance or thoughts on what next year's community count should look like and also tie in some of your comments about closings being more weighted to the back half of the year.
If you could just -- anything you could help us to think about that would be great.
Community count is probably one of the most difficult things to project because it's a function of not only opening new communities which can be impacted by how quickly you can get through regulatory process but also by the pace of sales in existing communities.
Are they slower than you expected or are they faster than you expected or are they right on target? So it's not something that we're going to provide any clarity or guidance on beyond the fact of Ara's comments already that we're working hard to try to add to our community count as we evidenced by our activity in the land market.
It's probably the best projector you have sitting in your chair as to how well or poorly we're doing in that regard.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I could -- if you look at Slide 31 which is one that shows your sold and unsold homes in process by dollar amount and compare that to your backlog the growth rates in backlog have been in the last couple of quarters on a year-over-year basis have been a lot faster and would just suggest that your inventory -- your WIP isn't keeping in pace with that.
Just -- can you -- how should we interpret that? You should interpret it -- what we've been saying for a number of quarters now is we've been focused on trying to increase our inventory turns so that we can actually do more deliveries with the same amount of inventory or less inventory and we've been very focused on that and it's showing you that we've actually been achieving that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So we shouldn't interpret that at all that there's under-spending right now on WIP? No you shouldn't interpret it -- that would be a complete bad assumption on your part.
Yes.
It's definitely a concerted focused effort on our part to turn our inventories more keep WIP and inventory down while our lower revenues are growing and it's part of our overall formula.
And so far so good.
Your next question is from the line of Susan Berliner with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
One I guess I was wondering if you could talk about specific markets such as Texas California DC and Chicago and what you're seeing there.
Let's see.
Texas has been just very solid.
They're both -- we're only in Houston and Dallas and they're both very solid.
The DC market has been very solid.
We're having on the Maryland side some qualification challenges in the Prince George's County area perhaps more than some others.
Overall that market has been steady.
And you mentioned one other market? What was it? Research Division</strong> No California and Chicago.
Chicago has been interesting.
Most of our peers are reporting a challenging environment.
We happen to be in some pretty good niches in affordable housing just more value-oriented which seems to be making the mark there.
We also have some good infill locations.
So I'd say the market wouldn't tell you Chicago is doing well but we are doing well in Chicago and I apologize you had… California.
Research Division</strong> California? California is definitely very strong in southern and northern California and it's one of the places we'd really like to replenish our land supply more quickly.
Research Division</strong> Great.
My other question was I guess for Larry.
The nonrecourse mortgages went up again this quarter and I was just wondering is that more model homes being secured? No what it is and we'll have a little detail on this in the Q Susan.
But there was a JV that had nonrecourse financing as a component of it and we ended up buying out our partner's interest in that JV which brought the debt along with it.
Your next question is from the line of Michael Kim with CRT Capital Group.
Research Division</strong> Where were the 200 lots that were unmothballed during the quarter located? And are you seeing any trends by geography in unmothballing land? I think those were in a community in New Jersey.
Research Division</strong> In New Jersey? Okay.
And could you describe the anticipated takedown schedule of the 620 lots from the first phase of the GSO transaction by geography and timing? I guess of the 6 land parcels from the first phase are any of these projects going to be taken down by phase? Or is it just going to be evenly split over 6 takedown schedules? It is not evenly split.
Each community has its own takedown schedule and the takedown schedule was tied to our expected sales absorption pace and our expected sales absorption pace was directly tied to what we are currently experiencing in that market.
So it's trying to be kind of a just-in-time takedown of finished lots.
Generally speaking if you looked at an overall average it's probably somewhere around 3 lots a month equivalent of 9 months -- 9 lots a quarter probably is a pretty representative sampling.
Some will be -- have higher absorption some lower but it's probably pretty typical once they get to be developed lots.
Research Division</strong> And when do expect the first takedown to occur? They've already occurred.
Research Division</strong> It already occurred? Okay.
And just as my last question will the land banking agreement with GSO be filed with the SEC to be shared publicly? It will not? No.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Casella with Imperial Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Larry when you talked about opportunistically addressing the balance sheet I guess could you just walk us through how you're thinking about that? I mean is it a matter of putting up a few more strong quarters and then looking to address the 10 5/8% with the coupon trading in where it is? Or if you could shed any light on that it would be helpful.
Yes I mean we continuously monitor what's going on in the capital market.
We've been probably one of the more active issuers over the last 4 or 5 years in the homebuilding space and we just opportunistically take advantage of opportunities that makes sense from our perspective.
So we just constantly monitor the market and decide when to -- we don't have anything planned right this second.
So we're just monitoring the markets and over time whether it's buying back debt exchanging more stock for debt or doing some capital market transaction we recognize that we have a ways to go to get our balance sheet back to healthier position and we continue to take steps to do that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And I guess just to that point is it your view that you would like to do just something overall on a global basis? Or kind of pick off different parts of the capital structure opportunistically? I think we need to do both over time.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Great.
And then just a quick housekeeping item.
What's the cash in your restricted group versus secured group of the $250 million that's -- that you have as of the quarter end? I'm not sure any of us have that at our finger tips.
You got it? Cash in the 2 different semesters [ph]? Yes so the cash in the peer group for the 10.65% notes is $164.8 million and the inventory that’s -- the real property that's collateralized is 640.9.
And the new group the cash is $86.4 million and the inventory that's collateralized at $36.5 million.
And there's investments and joint ventures with a book value of $46.4 million.
Your next question is from the line of Joshua Pollard with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> First you said you could issue 100 million shares without interrupting the NOL.
Could you give us a quick reminder of what the limitations on the NOL would be if you were to exceed that level of issuance? I think there's some confusion amongst investors whether that limits your use of it for a very long time or if that's shorter.
I just want to understand what's the sort of the decision factors there.
Yes if you trigger it you eliminate your ability to ever use a very very very substantial portion of it.
And frankly we haven't focused on the technicalities of what you can do because we just have no plans of issuing 100 million shares or anywhere near that amount to trigger it.
We don't feel like we have the need for that capital so it's just not on our radar screen to focus on it.
Research Division</strong> The other question I have -- well it's actually 2 parts.
One is on your gross margin improvement.
You said you expect it slow.
You pointed back to the early 2000s in terms of where you think normal margins are.
Are you already at normal margins in your backlog? Just given the increase in prices on your orders? No? No.
I think you misunderstood.
We didn't say that it was going to slow.
We said it...
Research Division</strong> Improvement would slow.
Yes well we wouldn't keep the same trajectory.
I mean we’ve improved almost 400 basis points.
That would get us -- if we did that again that would get us over our normalized level.
But I'm sorry you had -- the second part of that question? With our backlog we're not going to disclose exactly what gross margins are in backlog.
So we expect to continue to show some improvements as we deliver more homes from newly identified land especially in markets where we have some ability to have some pricing increases as well.
So we think there'll be modest improvements going forward but we're not in a position to publicly give you the precise margin that is in our backlog.
Research Division</strong> My last one is one on a regional side you saw that including JVs your orders are down 12% in the Northeast down -- or call it roughly flat in the Mid-Atlantic where your number of communities in those areas per -- are those numbers down? And then when you look at the inventory that's at GSO does that still count when you measure how much interest is capitalized on your income statement? First I'll comment on the Northeast.
Frankly of all the markets the New Jersey market has probably bounced back the least of all the other geographies.
It's not the case as you get very close to New York and our only high-rise in our company right now is selling very nicely and very steadily overlooking New York City.
But as you get you get further out that market has definitely been on the slower side.
The DC market has been more oriented to getting enough communities open at the right stage although as I mentioned we did have a little bit of a challenge in the recent couple of quarters in the -- on the Maryland side and the Prince George's County area and that has slowed it down just a bit.
Regarding capitalized interest Brad or Larry? I'll take that one.
It's a great question Josh and we have been in discussions with our auditors the DMT [ph] kind of working through that.
There's not a firm answer yet so I can't give you 100% clarity.
Your next question is a follow-up question from the line of Joel Locker with FBN Securities.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just on the other expense you had actually a $3.1 million gain.
What was that from? We sold an apartment that was built originally as a senior rent restricted kind of apartment that allowed us to get 15 years ago maybe 20 years ago a for-sale component of land approved and we sold it recently and it's a gain on that sale.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And what do you expect going forward on the interest expense actual? It's been hanging around low 20s mid-twenties actually.
I mean is that -- inventory’s grown a little bit sequentially but I mean do you expect that’s still in the low $20 million mid $20 million range for the foreseeable future? Sitting in your chair all you can do is kind of assume that it stays roughly the same.
And ladies and gentlemen this does conclude the question-and-answer portion of today's call.
I'd like to turn the call back over to Ara for some closing remarks.
Great.
Well thank you very much.
Needless to say we’re pleased with our quarter.
We're pleased with the results on every metric including liquidity and we look forward to bringing you even more positive news in our next quarterly release.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you so much for your participation today.
This does conclude our conference.
Have a great day.
All parties may now disconnect.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for Hovnanian Enterprises Fiscal 2012 Fourth Quarter and Year End Earnings Conference Call.
An archive of the webcast will be available after the completion of the call and run for 12 months.
This conference is being recorded for rebroadcast [Operator Instructions] The company will also be webcasting a slide presentation along with the opening comments from management.
The slides are available on the Investors page of the company's website at www.khov.com.
Those listeners who would like to follow along should log onto the website at this time.
Before we begin I would like to turn the call over to Jeff O'Keefe Vice President Investor Relations.
Jeff please go ahead.
Thank you.
I'm going to read through our forward-looking statement very quickly.
All statements during this conference that are not historical facts should be considered as forward-looking statements.
Such statements involve known and unknown risks uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results performance or achievements of the company to be materially different from any future results performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements.
Although we believe that our plans intentions and expectations reflected in or suggested by such forward-looking statements are reasonable we can give no assurance that such plans intentions or expectations will be achieved.
Such risks and uncertainties and other factors include but are not limited to changes in general and local economic and industry business conditions and impacts of the sustained homebuilding downturn; adverse weather and other environmental conditions and natural disasters; changes in market conditions and seasonality of the company's business; changes in home prices and sales activities in the markets where the company builds homes; government regulations including regulations concerning development of land the homebuilding sales and customer financing processes; tax laws and the environment; fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of mortgage financing; shortages in and price fluctuations of raw materials and labor; the availability and cost of suitable land and improved lots; levels of competition; availability of financing to the company; utility shortages and outages or rate fluctuations; levels of indebtedness and restrictions on the company's operations and activities imposed by the agreements governing the company's outstanding indebtedness; the company's sources of liquidity; changes in credit ratings; availability of net operating loss carryforwards; operations through joint ventures with third parties; product liability litigation warranty claims and claims by mortgage investors; successful identification and integration of acquisitions; significant influence of the company's controlling stockholders; changes in tax laws affecting the after-tax cost of owning a home; geopolitical risks terrorist acts and other acts of war; and other factors described in detail on the company's annual report on the Form 10-K for the year ended October 31 2011 and the company's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended April 30 2012.
Except as otherwise required by applicable securities laws we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events changed circumstances or any other reason.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Ara Hovnanian our Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer.
Ara go ahead.
Thanks Jeff and thank you all for participating in this morning's call to review the results of our fourth quarter and year end of October 2012.
Joining me today from the company are Larry Sorsby Executive Vice President and CFO; Brad O'Connor Vice President Chief Accounting Officer and Corporate Controller; David Valiaveedan Vice President of Finance and Treasurer; and Jeff O'Keefe Vice President of Investor Relations.
On Slide 3 you can see a brief summary of our fourth quarter results and comparisons to the prior year.
The homebuilding recovery continues to move forward.
First not necessarily in the order of the chart we are reporting our first quarterly pretax profit before gains or losses from debt extinguishment in many years.
This is a major milestone for us; hopefully the first of many profitable quarters to come.
Virtually every metric improved again except for community count which I will discuss more fully in a moment.
Throughout the year we have made steady progress on our operating performance.
We show the drivers of these improvements on Slide 4.
In the top left quadrant of the slide you can see that we reported steady growth in our total revenues in each of the 4 quarters of fiscal '12.
At the same time our top line was growing.
We reported 180 basis point improvement in gross margin from the beginning of the year which can be seen in the upper right-hand portion of the slide.
In fact it's our sixth sequential quarterly improvement in gross margin.
On the bottom left-hand quadrant we show quarterly SG&amp;A percent in yellow bars and quarterly interest percentage in the red bars.
The graph demonstrates the benefit of our operating leverage which is the result of revenue growth while maintaining SG&amp;A and interest dollars nearly constant.
During the fourth quarter our SG&amp;A ratio to total revenues declined to historically normal levels; and our interest ratio while not yet at normalized levels has decreased significantly.
Due to our recent $800 million debt refinancing which reduced our annual cash interest cost by $17 million our future interest expense should decline even further going forward.
The net results of all of these positive trends is that for the fourth quarter of 2012 we reported the first profit before taxes and land and debt charges since the first quarter of 2007.
In fact the fourth quarter profit before taxes and losses on debt extinguishment was a positive $2.8 million even after including land charges.
As a reminder Hurricane Sandy struck our Northeastern markets in the critical last closing days of our fiscal year end delaying deliveries affecting sales in that market and delaying cash from some homes that did close from being received until November.
Fortunately our delivery and net contract performance in markets less affected by the storm made up for some of the shortfall.
Let me take a step back and talk about our most recent net contracts data.
If you turn to Slide 5.
As I mentioned earlier starting on the upper left-hand quadrant you can see our net contract dollars increased by 46% comparing the fourth quarter to the prior year.
The number of net contracts including unconsolidated joint ventures increased 23% during the fourth quarter while our community count actually dropped 12% year-over-year resulting in a 38% increase in net contracts per community.
The dollar amount of contract backlog at the end of fiscal '12 increased 34% compared to the end of the prior year.
Assuming stable market conditions these increases in net contracts and contract backlog should lead to quarterly revenue growth in each quarter of fiscal '13 compared to the same quarters of fiscal '12.
The left-hand side of Slide 6 breaks this net contract data down on a monthly basis since the beginning of the fiscal year with the left side showing absolute net monthly contracts and the right side showing average weekly sales per month.
We do this by dividing the absolute number of net contracts in a month by the number of Sundays in the month.
We use Sundays because the vast majority of our sales occur during the weekends and the number of weekends in a month will affect the monthly sales results.
You can see that the absolute number and that weekly average number has held relatively steady during the quarter and held reasonably well in the normal seasonably slow month of November.
Slide 7 shows the monthly net contracts per community with fiscal '12 shown in red and fiscal '11 shown in yellow.
You can see that the monthly net contracts per community in fiscal '12 have been extremely constant since May.
In November the beginning of our new fiscal year and the beginning of the 3-month slow winter season sales showed continued year-over-year improvements.
Our net contracts per community in November of 2012 increased approximately 34% to 2.0 net contracts per community compared to 1.5 net contracts per community in November of 2011.
The dollar amount of net contracts increased about 38% and net contract units increased approximately 18% compared to November of 2011.
Slide 8 shows our annual net contracts per community for the last 16 years through a variety of cycles.
While 2012 shows a significant improvement at 28.1 net contracts per community there is still a substantial amount of upside opportunity before we return to more normalized levels in the low to mid 40s per community.
Although we're not yet back to our historical normal levels our net contracts per community compares favorably to our peers as you could see on Slide #9 where we have the third highest net contracts per community for the last 12 months.
Record low interest rates attractive home prices pent-up demand a lower supply of existing homes for sale improvement in the economy and employment and greater optimism are all helping drive the housing recovery.
This is occurring in spite of the restrictive mortgage lending environment and the number of underwater existing homebuyers.
I'd like to show you a few sample markets that demonstrate the significant change in the balance of existing home supply to sales.
On Slide 10 we show the counties where we operate in the D.C.
suburbs of Northern Virginia.
This slide shows MLS outstanding listings for each month in red and MLS sales for each month in yellow.
The month's supply of used homes for sale which is shown in blue has gone from a high of 16.8 months back in February of '07 to 2.2 months supply in October of '12.
We also circled in black the months of October of 2011 and the October of 2010 so you can see the steady long-term downward trend.
Slide 11 shows a similar trend in Orlando where the months supply in blue reached a high of 31.6 months in January of 2008 and it's now down to 3.3 months supply.
And finally Phoenix is another market that we show on Slide 12 that reached a very high supply -- months supply 24.5 in January of '08 and it's now down to a 3.1 months supply which is quite low.
In general we have seen similar trends in MLS data in many of our markets across the country where months supply is now between 3 and 6 months which is considered very healthy.
This shift in supply and demand has created an environment where we can raise new home prices.
We raised net home prices in approximately 58% of our communities during the last year.
Some of these price increases were modest price increases of only $500 or $1 000 while others were much more substantial in magnitude.
Part of the home price increases have been offset by construction cost increases.
However the gradual and steady nature of this recovery is helping to keep construction costs from going out of control.
Our current costs are still significantly below our costs during the cyclical peak.
Turning back to our operating metrics.
We ended the year with 189 active selling communities as you can see on Slide 13.
As we have said on earlier conference calls our sales increase has resulted in selling out of communities faster than we had planned.
The land market remains challenging but then again the land market is always challenging.
There are more parcels of land for sale today at rational prices than there were 1 year ago.
As sales paces and home prices have risen the dollar amount that homebuilders can justifiably pay for land has also increased.
The increase in land prices has caused many landowners who are unwilling to sell at lower prices to actively market their land at today's higher prices.
It's almost unheard of to be the sole bidder on a land parcel today that if it's in a good location and readable price.
If anything has changed although we do see the better capitalized private homebuilders purchasing land there are far fewer private homebuilders bidding on land today than there were during the more normal times.
As far as finished lots go other than Houston it is definitely harder to find finished lots today than it was 1 year ago.
However when we underwrite raw or partially developed land we are still able to find land that generates a 25% plus unlevered IRR based on the current home prices and absorption rates.
When we have to perform the land development ourselves it does take 5 to 9 more months to get a community up and running compared to buying finished lots but we have the expertise to develop the land and the extra time is taken into account when we are underwriting the land purchase.
While competition for land remains strong there is no single builder that consistently beats our bid for land parcels in -- either in individual markets or in multiple markets across the country.
That fact leads us to the conclusion that our peers are not consistently assuming home prices to be increasing or sales paces to be increasing on any widespread basis as they purchase land.
An amusing anecdote is that it's not uncommon for one of our operating associates to complain that the builder we lost a land opportunity to must be assuming home price increases otherwise they wouldn't have been able to offer so much money for our land parcel.
I'm sure that when we win a land parcel that the other builders bidding on it must say the same thing about us but the reality is we all use different assumptions on what type of home to build what finishes to include the price versus velocity trade-off the mix of different size homes et cetera.
It's part art and part science leading to slightly different views on land value on any given parcel.
At the end of the day everyone loses more land deals than they win but that was also true during the bull market run of 2002 to 2005.
We continue to win our fair share of land and by remaining disciplined in our approach to underwriting we feel very comfortable with the parcels that we have acquired.
On Slide 14 we show quarterly net additions of newly acquired land in yellow and quarterly deliveries in red.
We've been very busy with net additions to our newly acquired land position.
We start the year -- we started the year off slowly but we have built momentum.
During the first half of 2012 we weren't able to find enough land parcels that met our underwriting criteria to replace the land underneath the homes we delivered.
During the second half however our net additions were in excess of our deliveries which resulted in an increased lot count.
We purchased or optioned approximately 5 000 lots throughout the entire year but 84% of the net additions were in the second half of the year.
There is a time lag before these new communities can come to market.
While the lower number of actively selling communities may dampen our sales and deliveries early in the new fiscal year we are very optimistic about our opportunities for stronger growth in the latter half of the year.
As you will see in later slides our cash position is significantly higher than our minimum cash target meaning that we are under-invested right now.
However we are working hard to find additional land parcels that meet our 25% plus IRR hurdle rates so we can put that money to good use in the coming quarters.
Let me now focus on our operating performance which has improved throughout the year.
Slide 15 shows our quarterly gross margin for the past 7 quarters.
Gross margin was 18.3% for the fourth quarter of '12 a 300 basis -- excuse me a 350 basis point improvement over the second quarter of 2011 which is the first quarter we show in the slide.
This is the sixth sequential increase in gross margin.
During the fourth quarter of 2012 there were $20.7 million of impairment reversals related to deliveries compared to $19.1 million in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Much of the 350 basis point improvement in gross margin is attributable to more of our deliveries coming from newly identified land which we show under the bars for each of these quarters.
During the fourth quarter of '12 71% of our wholly-owned deliveries were from newly identified land compared with only 39% in the second quarter of 2011.
Given the fact that 85% of our wholly-owned open for sale communities are from newly identified land parcels gross margins should continue to edge up as we realize deliveries from these communities.
There's been a lot of attention lately on construction cost pressure due to labor shortages and material shortages.
Neither has impacted our ability to build or deliver homes in fiscal '12.
However we do worry about pressure on costs particularly from our labor subcontractors as the market continues to improve.
Historically we've always been able to raise prices more than enough to cover our increasing costs and we don't see any reason why it should be different at this point in the cycle.
We continue to make progress in restoring our gross margin to normalized levels.
If you look at Slide 16 you can see what we consider as normal gross margins of 20% to 21% in years 2000 and 2001 which were neither boom nor bust years.
While we don't expect the sequential increase trajectory that we've experienced for the last 6 quarters to continue quite as steadily going forward we do expect the gross margin to gradually improve and get back to the 20% to 21% range.
As I mentioned earlier we also made great strides in lowering our SG&amp;A as a percentage of total revenues.
This reduction came about as we held the absolute dollar level of total SG&amp;A steady despite a large increase in the top line.
On the left-hand side of Slide 17 the bars show total SG&amp;A as a percentage of total revenues which is trending lower each quarter as the solid growth in our top line revenues has far outpaced the very modest increases in total SG&amp;A dollars.
Below the bars we show the absolute dollars of total SG&amp;A for the past 5 quarters.
The right-hand side of the slide gives a historical perspective to what the relationship between total SG&amp;A and total sales should be.
Normal is somewhere around 10% and 11%.
We got to the 10% level for the fourth quarter and for the full year we had an SG&amp;A level of 12.8% which is the best we have seen in this ratio since 2006.
Once again this illustrates the operating leverage we generate as we increase deliveries and revenues while maintaining total SG&amp;A dollars relatively constant.
Assuming that home prices at least keep pace with any cost increases as we deliver an increasing percentage of our homes on newly identified land parcels we expect continued improvements in our gross margins.
As our revenues increase we expect our interest expense as a percentage of revenues to decline further and we expect to see additional improvement in our SG&amp;A ratio as well.
This powerful combination which allows us to progress further down the path of returning to a sustainable profitability is upon us.
Now I'll turn it over to Larry who will discuss our inventory liquidity and mortgage operations as well as a few other topics.
Thanks Ara.
We continue to look for new land in all of our markets.
The left-hand side of Slide 18 shows that we have controlled 21 900 lots since January of 2009 including 2 400 net new lots during the fourth quarter of 2012.
Bottom right-hand side shows that total gross additions during the fourth quarter were 2 800 lots.
We also walked away from about 400 newly identified lots.
Net results for the fourth quarter was that our total lots purchased or controlled since January 2009 increased about 2 400 lots sequentially from the third quarter of 2012.
For the second quarter in a row we are replenishing our land faster than we're using it.
Our total owned and optioned lot position increased sequentially by 748 lots during the fourth quarter.
Turning now to Slide 19.
You'll see our owned and optioned land position broken out by our publicly reported segments.
Based on our trailing 12-month deliveries we owned 3.5 years worth of land.
However if you exclude the 6 823 mothballed lots we only owned 2.1 years of land based on the delivery rate of the past 4 quarters.
At the end of the fourth quarter 77% of our optioned lots are newly identified lots and 29% of our owned lots were newly identified lots.
If you exclude mothballed lots 49% of our owned lots are newly identified.
When you combine our optioned and owned land together 49% of the total lots that we control today are newly identified lots.
Excluding mothballed lots 64% of our total lots are newly identified lots.
Our investment in land option deposits was $57.5 million at October 31 2012 with $56.3 million in cash deposits and the other $1.2 million of deposits being held by letters of credit.
Additionally we have another $5.2 million invested in predevelopment expenses.
Turning now to Slide 20.
We show our mothballed lots broken out by geographic segment.
In total we have 6 823 mothballed lots within 53 communities that were mothballed as of October 31 2012.
The book value at the end of the fourth quarter for these remaining mothballed lots was $124.2 million net of an impairment balance of $467.8 million.
We are carrying these mothballed lots at 21% of the original value.
Since 2009 we have unmothballed 3 400 lots within 59 communities.
Looking at all of our consolidated communities in the aggregate including mothballed communities we have an inventory book value of about $891 million net of $683 million of impairments which we recorded on 105 of our communities.
Of the properties that have been impaired we're carrying them at 23% of their pre-impaired value.
Now turning to Slide 21 the number of started unsold homes excluding models and unconsolidated joint ventures decreased from the third quarter.
We ended the fourth quarter with 649 started unsold homes.
This translates to 3.8 started unsold homes per active selling community which is well below our long-term average of about 4.8 unsold homes per community.
Another area of discussion for the quarter is related to our current and deferred tax asset valuation allowance.
At the end of the fourth quarter the valuation allowance in the aggregate was $937.9 million.
Our valuation allowance is a very significant asset not currently reflected on our balance sheet and we've taken steps to protect it.
We expect to be able to reverse this allowance after we generate consecutive years of solid profitability and can continue to project solid profitability going forward.
When the reversal does occur we expect the remaining allowance to be added back to our shareholders equity further strengthening our balance sheet.
Today we could issue approximately 100 million additional shares of common HOV stock for cash without limiting our ability to utilize our NOLs.
We ended the fourth quarter with total shareholders’ deficit of $486 million.
If you add back the total valuation allowance as we've done on Slide 22 then our shareholders' equity will be $452 million.
Let me reiterate that the tax asset valuation allowance is for GAAP purposes only.
For tax purposes our tax assets may be carried forward for 20 years from occurrence and we expect to utilize those tax loss carryforwards as we generate profits in the future.
For the first $2 billion of pretax profits we generate we will not have to pay federal income taxes.
Now let me update you briefly on our mortgage operations.
Turning to Slide 23 you can see that the credit quality of our mortgage customers continues to be strong with an average FICO score of 741.
For the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 our mortgage company captured 76% of our noncash home-buying customers.
Turning to Slide 24 we show a breakout of all the various loan types originated by our mortgage operations for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 compared to all of fiscal 2011.
24.4% of our originations were for FHA loans during our fiscal 2012 fourth quarter compared to 34.1% we saw during all of fiscal 2011.
We believe that this 9.7% decline in FHA business is primarily related to the increased mortgage insurance cost FHA adopted in April 2012.
During that same time frame we saw our conforming conventional originations increase by 10.7% to 57.8% during the fourth quarter of 2012 compared to 47.1% during all of fiscal 2011.
As FHA mortgage insurance cost increased our customers chose to obtain less expensive conventional loans even though private mortgage insurance is required on all conventional loans with loan devalues above 80%.
If there were further increases to mortgage insurance cost for FHA borrowers an additional shift towards conventional loans would likely occur.
During all of fiscal 2012 54% of our originations were conforming conventional loans.
Of this amount 27% of our conforming conventional loan originations had loan devalues above 80% and have to obtain private mortgage insurance in order to qualify for the loan.
We have seen new private mortgage insurance companies formed in recent years that have taken market share from insurers that are no longer in business.
Regarding the make-whole and repurchase requests received from various banks we continue to believe that the majority of these requests that we receive are unjustified.
On Slide 25 you'll see our payments for repurchase and make-whole requests from fiscal 2008 through fiscal 2012.
During 2012 our repayments were only $1.6 million on 10 loans.
During 2012 we received 66 repurchase inquiries which was higher than the 39 repurchase inquiries for all of 2011 but lower than the 98 repurchase inquiries we received in 2010.
We believe that any losses resulting from repurchase and make-whole requests have been adequately reserved for in previous periods.
At the end of the fourth quarter our reserve for loan repurchases and make-whole requests were $9.3 million which we believe is adequate for our exposure.
Today mortgage repurchases have not been a significant problem but we will continue to monitor this issue closely.
Now turning to our debt maturity ladder which can be found on Slide 26.
During the fourth quarter we issued new secured debt at a lower coupon which reduced our annual cash interest expense by about $17 million and extended the maturity of $577 million of the refinanced debt from 2016 until fiscal 2020 and extended the maturity of the remaining $220 million of the refinanced debt from 2016 until fiscal 2021.
In order to cover the premium to call the previous debt and expenses related to the new debt issuance we issued $100 million of senior unsecured exchangeable notes which matured in fiscal 2018.
We remain confident that we can deal with the unsecured notes maturing between 2014 and 2017 either through refinancing them prior to maturity or paying them off as they come due.
Since the end of fiscal 2008 we've reduced our debt by more than $960 million.
We were pleased to announce during the quarter that we increased our land banking arrangement with GSO by $125 million to $250 million.
As an update on the initial portfolio to date GSO has closed on approximately 1 000 lots totaling $94 million in acquisition development cost.
The additional properties to fully fund the initial $125 million have been identified and GSO is going through its due diligence process.
With respect to the additional $125 million agreement we have already identified a few land parcels and GSO has started its due diligence on them.
We expect to fill the additional $125 million land banking agreement with GSO during fiscal 2013.
As you can see on Slide 27 after spending $127.9 million on land and land development we ended the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 with approximately $289 million in homebuilding cash including cash used to collateralize letters of credit.
This is the third quarter in a row where we had sequential growth in our cash position.
Keep in mind that our year-end cash balance would have been even higher if not for the impact of Hurricane Sandy delaying some home deliveries and delaying the receipt of cash on some homes that did deliver during the final few days of our fiscal year.
We feel good about our current liquidity position.
Our cash position at the end of the quarter exceeds our target range of $170 million to $245 million.
When you combine our cash balance with the additional liquidity provided by our recently increased land banking arrangement with GSO we believe that we are able to evaluate and actively pursue all of the land deals that are taking place in our markets.
To date we have not had to pass up on a land deal because of a lack of capital.
If we find sufficient new land parcels that meet our underwriting criteria we are comfortable managing our cash at the lower end of our $170 million to $245 million range.
We continue to look for land deals in all of our markets and we continue to put dollars to work in land deals that meet our 25-plus percent IRR hurdle rate.
That concludes our prepared remarks and we'll open up for any questions you might have.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question today comes from the line of Nishu Sood with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask first about the order pricing.
Your order number was up 23%.
Your total order volumes dollar volumes were up 46%.
That's a trend that's been going on but that was a pretty marked jump in that and it was across a lot of your -- basically across all of your regions.
So I just want to understand what was driving that and whether we could expect that to continue.
Yes I'd like to say that it was just that we raised home prices that much in every market.
But in fact it was just really a matter of 2 different mixes combined with some home prices.
The 2 different mixes are just the mix of communities that delivered homes had higher prices.
And we have seen a bit of a shift toward larger homes by some of our customers combined with some higher option dollars bringing the average price up.
So it's really been a mix of many factors.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay and in terms of your land acquisitions.
The pace obviously picked up a lot in the second half of the year.
If I look at it on a whole year basis you still added less lots around 5 000 versus how many you closed so 5 300 or so.
As you look at it I mean does the pace of the second half need to continue to fuel growth into the housing recovery? Or are we going to see some seasonality? Obviously you're generating more cash flows in the second half of the year and so you might see a slowdown in the pace in the first half of the year.
No our goal is to continue that current pace.
And so far we feel pretty good about the opportunities that are out there.
Early in the year it's really -- if you think about it that's when we experienced a pretty marked improvement in sales pace and prices began to go up.
And that made it easier to justify land residuals that the land sellers wanted.
So early in the year when the pricing was just coming up we just didn't have opportunities that met the criteria but as the pricing and paces of homes jumped we were able to find more opportunities and we continue to find them right now.
Yes Nishu I think it's a false conclusion to draw that the first half of the year we were reluctant to purchase land because of our liquidity position.
The reason that we had less land purchased in the first half of the year is there were less sellers willing to sell at prices where we could underwrite it at our 25-plus percent unlevered IRR.
It was not a capital limitation.
Having said that going forward although we need in order to grow to replenish at a faster rate than we're delivering homes we're going to stay disciplined on our underwriting criteria and not overpay for land just to make sure we have more lots.
Research Division</strong> And how much development is required on the lots that you were picking up in the second half of the year? It's really a whole mix.
I think I mentioned that in general we're definitely finding fewer developed lot opportunities.
A lot of those that are in good locations got picked over.
But they still exist.
We just bought a couple of hundred fully developed lots in Orlando just a few weeks ago.
So the opportunities exist.
But I'd say more often than not lately we're seeing the better opportunities where we have to develop lots.
Luckily -- and obviously that changes by market by the way.
In Houston we definitely still see more finished lot opportunities and we see them scattered around.
But in general I think we can plan on more development opportunities.
The good thing is that we're quite used to land development.
I think we're good at it and that's not something that concerns us.
Generally speaking we have to have higher margins in those cases to overcome the slower inventory turns in order to get our IRRs to meet our hurdle rates of 25% plus but we've been able to find those opportunities.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question on the GSO relationship.
I was wondering if you could describe how it works in terms of returns if there are profit participation above a certain level and what that level might be in terms of either margins or returns.
And also how do you distinguish between taking land on through your own balance sheet or through the GSO relationship? Okay let me address the terms that are not disclosed.
But safe to say as we said in the past that they're very similar to a typical land banking deal that we did in the last cycle and our peers did in the last cycle.
There's a basically a return on dollars deployed that GSO receives and we put down a deposit.
It's truly an option.
We can walk away from it and all that we're at risk for is our option deposit.
There is no participation of any kind.
All GSO gets is the agreed upon return.
That does not change it's a fixed return.
In terms of determining whether it goes to the GSO or whether we do it on a wholly-owned basis I mean if it's a fixed lot option that we're purchasing on some kind of flow basis it certainly doesn't make any sense to put it into GSO.
If it's a smaller parcel and less dollars that's going to be completed in 12 18 24 months it probably doesn't make sense to put it in a GSO.
So we kind of focus on communities that have higher cost per lot and may have some development work and had a little longer life.
So larger deals would be looked at more seriously to go into GSO and smaller deals we would favor doing on our own as a general rule.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate that that's helpful.
Secondly I just had a question actually on the accounting side.
I noticed that you're reporting a lot and I think you kind of break it out afterwards in the way we're more used to.
But at least on the press release and the presentation reporting a lot of numbers most numbers units including JVs on a regional level and on a consolidated level.
I think that's largely in contrast to most of your peers.
And in addition the commissions both internal and external are in your cost of sales.
And I think only 2 other builders out of the 12 we cover do that.
So I was just wondering if there's any thoughts around perhaps trying to align those 2 areas of accounting more towards the vast majority of the peer group just would be very helpful for a comparability standpoint.
Yes let me first address the with and without JVs.
I think as I think you alluded to we provide it both ways and we'll continue to provide it both ways.
But we have more JVs than most of our peers.
A lot of our peers did JVs in the past that perhaps had hidden recourse or had more recourse and they decided to get out of the JV business.
We always structured ours to where we didn't have any recourse.
And the proof was kind of in the pudding that we didn't have to reach into our pockets and subsidize the JVs in any way shape or form.
We still could lose money just as we did it on our wholly-owned stuff with JVs but at least we didn't have to put additional funds in.
So we have probably more JVs than our peers.
So that when we think in terms of our performance in terms of how much did our contracts go up we worked just as hard to get a JV contract sold to a homebuyer as we do on a wholly-owned basis.
So that's the reason we do it and we're really not contemplating changing that but we will tell you we'll continue to provide you the data both ways so that you can slice and dice it any way you see fit.
And I think the other one had to do with the SG&amp;A being in gross margin and there's just 3 of -- or commissions.
I think there's 3 of us that do it that way and I wish all builders did it on an apples-to-apples basis.
But I've been in this business a long time and it's never been apples-to-apples.
As you know we've attempted to show the comparison making that adjustment for everyone.
I think we did that for 2 or 3 quarters in a row we didn't do it this quarter just to explain to people that it's not always apples-to-apples.
But there's never been a consistent way that homebuilders have done it and I don't think there's any movement out there to attempt to get everybody to do it exactly the same.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Yes I think one other builder might've switched over but hopefully we can get everyone on the same line.
One other question on the gross margins.
Nice improvement there sequentially if you exclude the interest costs.
I think up roughly -- let me see up about 90 bps sequentially including cost of -- interest and cost of sales.
Just wanted to know on a sequential basis what you thought the driver was of doing some incremental leverage from a fixed cost or if you had better pricing coming through in the quarter and thoughts in terms of potential for continued improvement in 2013 perhaps even off of the base that you've achieved in the back half of '12.
I'll try to take a crack at that if I can remember all parts of it.
First of all gross margin improvement generally is not that affected by velocity of sales although we did get a little pickup from velocity because construction overhead is one of the items in gross margin.
And we pick up a little more efficiency as we deliver more homes per community so that benefits us.
Most of the other areas are not velocity-dependent.
The margin benefit came a little bit from lots of places part of which we touched on in the prepared comments.
We certainly did have some price increases home price increases offset a little bit by construction costs.
We also had a more favorable mix of our deliveries coming from newly acquired land parcels.
And those generally have better margins than deliveries from some of our older legacy properties.
And there's just been a little bit more purchasing in the larger models than there were in the last couple of years.
I think interest rates are helping that and people are able to bump up to a larger home without a huge effect on monthly payments.
So that's giving a little extra boost as well.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question does come from the line of Alan Ratner with Zelman &amp; Associates.
LLC</strong> Ara my first question was just on your community count guidance.
It sounds like you are expecting to see some growth to occur at least on a year-over-year basis in the back half of next year.
I was wondering if you might be able to provide a target on year-end either on a net basis or in terms of kind of gross that you expect to open through the year and then maybe a rough guess on close outs.
Alan as you well recognize probably better than most that's just a difficult difficult number for any homebuilder to project.
I mean internally obviously we have a pretty good handle on what we think the divisions are going to do assuming that nothing changes in terms of sales pace and that the timing of the opening of the communities happen precisely when we expect it to occur.
But if timing changes in terms of when we get the final approvals to open a community or if sales paces a little faster a little slower it can significantly impact the number.
So we're just not comfortable putting out a projection that gives you any real clarity other than the big message which is we think we have a good shot and stable market environment of growing the community count this year.
LLC</strong> Okay great.
Okay that's helpful.
And I certainly understand the challenges provided in that guidance.
The second question is on the corporate G&amp;A line.
You've actually done a great job at managing that despite the 30% plus increase in revenue you saw this year.
And I was just curious you're exiting the year at a quarterly run rate close to about $11 million.
I think you're close to about $13 million coming into the year.
What's the right target to think about that going forward? Is the fourth quarter run rate a pretty clean number for us to use? Or would you expect that to show some lift as you open more communities? I apologize I didn't understand the question.
Can you give it to me succinctly? LLC</strong> Just the corporate G&amp;A which is $11.3 million this quarter.
That's been down I think 3 straight quarters.
So just curious what the -- if that's a clean run rate and what the growth looks like as you open communities.
If you're talking corporate SG&amp;A I would say you should assume what our current run rate has been in the future terms of your model.
I mean it's not something we provide any clear guidance on.
But if I was sitting in your chair that's what I would use.
We don't anticipate any big changes at the moment there.
But -- and by the way one additional point of clarity on the community count that makes it so challenging.
In our case when a community gets to fewer than 10 homes we don't count it in community count which is why -- I mean there are many reasons why it's difficult to project the number.
But if you're teetering around 10 or 12 homes in a community all it takes is one sale early or a cancellation of one to make the community count bob up and down from month to month.
So it's a challenging number but we feel pretty good about the land acquisition opportunities and about our ability to continue to grow the top line growth in 2013.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Oppenheim with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> It's Mike on for Dan.
Just 2 quick follow-ups on the GSO arrangement.
First just curious what your sense is on timing of community openings from the initial land put into the land bank.
Yes I mean some of them were open when we sold it to them or just about to be opened.
So much of the initial batch is probably an active selling community or soon to be an active selling community.
Research Division</strong> And then the next batch could still come online in 2013 [indiscernible] ? Yes I mean there can be some delay if you have to do land development.
If you're buying a raw piece of land there'll be the same delay that we'd have if we were buying a raw piece of land on a wholly-owned basis.
We have to do the land development so it might be 5 to 9 months before you could have it opened.
But there's nothing unusual about the GSO relationship that would cause the communities to come on slower or faster than if we had purchased them on a wholly-owned basis with the one exception that the very very first tranche that we did with them the entire tranche was stuff that we had previously purchased.
Generally speaking I'd expect even the second level the second $125 million that most of those will be open by the end of the year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just a quick clarification.
On the fixed return is that regardless of the type of community purchased? Or is there any sort of scale? Yes.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Regardless? Yes.
Your next question is from the line of Megan McGrath with MKM Partners.
Research Division</strong> Just a little bit of a follow-up on the land issue.
We've been talking to some folks who talk about the value of -- given that you're seeing subcontractors be a little tight on adding labor that there's a value to keeping sort of a straighter time line in terms of construction.
So when you think about what you're buying and what's in the pipeline is there a value to maybe buying something with a lower IRR but that will allow you to keep a straighter line in terms of your construction? And would you be willing to take maybe something sub-20% just in order to keep that -- your subcontractors happy and your pace sort of more even? I wouldn't say -- I mean while there might be times when we'd look at an opportunity that's sub-25% for unique circumstances it's not often and it's not driven by subcontractor concerns.
Having said that we're always looking to keep a strong relationship with our subcontractors and really focus on being a good partner with them giving them good construction schedule information which we do electronically on our computerized scheduling system and it's updated nightly.
We try to make sure we keep our payment process very smooth and effortless and they can look up payables also online on their own private web portals that they have access to to see the status of outstanding payments.
And we try to make sure we pay timely.
We have a very good variance purchase order system that doesn't leave them in the dark with construction.
If there are valid reasons and there often are for cost overruns we have a good system to process that throughout our company.
So there are a variety of things we do to build a strong relationship with our subcontractors.
But I wouldn't say we'd be buying land to keep their workforces happy.
I mean frankly what's happening now is we're in a growth mode as an industry certainly as a company and more is coming and we're keeping them abreast of that but it isn't that we're kind of having peaks and valleys in most of the markets.
It's kind of all of our markets are gradually increasing along with the market.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just a quick follow-up on Hurricane Sandy from the -- from a cost side.
Are you seeing any tightness in East Coast labor or construction supplies after Sandy? It's interesting and I think we mentioned this before in our last call most of our markets have shown a real marked improvement during the year including the very close in locations in New Jersey.
But some of the further out suburbs of New Jersey has been a little slower than other parts of the country.
So they haven't had prior to Hurricane Sandy the normal cost pressures that we've seen in some of the other markets where housing permits and starts are way up.
Having said that recognizing that it's a slower period of starts in the winter in the Northeast I wouldn't be surprised if there's little costing pressure.
But it might come out to be overall similar to what we are experiencing in other markets but for different reasons.
Your next question is from the line of Joel Locker with FBN Securities.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just on your share count it's a little lower than I thought.
And just what would it be going forward with -- on a diluted and a basic? Brad I'll let you handle that one.
Well if you're looking at the annual versus the quarterly you can see that...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just the quarterly going forward.
Quarterly it should not move much from where it is unless we were to do something new.
I mean we do have the tangible equity units that were issued 1 year ago.
Those are already counted in the calculation.
So as those convert we have already counted those.
So there really isn't anything that I would anticipate to make that share count grow in the future other than kind of normal things that you'd seen in prior years if there was any stock option exercises or stock grants that vest an issue.
But those are not large numbers.
So I mean we also have the convertible notes we issued in October out there as the possibility of being converted but I wouldn't anticipate that happening in any great events for a while.
So...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But the convertible notes are not going to be included.
They are not included that's correct.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Just to I guess base the last question on interest expense going forward.
If you drop to $17 million in interest payments a year it's $4 million in a quarter per quarter.
I mean is the new base rate for interest expense barring its inventory moves around around $21 million? You probably can't do it as easy as that Joel because of the way we capitalize interests.
So it'll take a little -- there'll be a lag before that comes through in the expense side.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But barring anything if your inventory stays around $9 billion or $8 billion in total or if that doesn't move much obviously it's going to move if the inventory numbers move but.
Yes but I would say it's just we capitalize based on what the expense was at the time that's still and capitalize interest in that inventory as we close a house.
It will be higher because of what was higher at that point in time.
It just takes a while for us to kind of work through.
And there's just a lag before that cash interest savings comes through in terms of interest expense on the P&amp;L.
Some of it will come through right away.
Others it just won't be as clean as you described it that's all I'm trying to say.
Your next question is from the line of David Goldberg with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I want to ask a question.
I know people have kind of been hitting on this pricing cost question.
But Ara in the opening remarks you mentioned that a lot of the year-over-year gross margin improvement you saw was really driven more by the fact that you're more on delivering more homes on newly acquired lots.
And you also mentioned that as you get good price appreciation you're seeing cost pressure.
And so I'm wondering if you guys have looked at what kind of captured you -- rate you kind of get on price appreciation.
In other words if prices go up $1 how much do think goes up -- did you lose in higher cost versus how much do you think you capture? And is that something we're just not seeing yet in the margin that's why it's not more impactful? It's not something we track that way.
There's just so many moving parts on margins where the mix from deliveries coming from.
If we are buying finished lots on a quarterly takedown those tend to have lower margins but they have higher inventory turns so we still get to our IRR.
But if you have a higher percentage delivering at any given point in time from that type of land arrangement versus situations where we develop land that can affect it the mix of model types the mix of -- in a given quarter how many come from legacy position.
So there can be -- there are just a lot of ups and downs there.
We've been making great progress as we said on our gross margins 350 basis points I believe over the last 6 quarters.
We anticipate barring some unforeseen circumstances that we're going to continue to improve our gross margins and hopefully including this year coming up.
But we just don't calc how much of it is directly from each factor.
There are just so many moving parts.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Maybe I could try to ask the question a little bit differently and maybe this is too vague too so I apologize if it is.
But when you look out at how you negotiate your pricing for labor and materials and with your subcontractors how long can you effectively fix those costs relative to the home price? In other words you say hey we're going to build this home.
It's a 3-month build cycle.
Here's the cost and it's [indiscernible] and then you have to renegotiate.
I mean how long when you kind of think about your different subcontractor bases do you fix your labor and your material costs as you look forward? It varies quite a bit.
So let me try to give some instances.
Appliance -- branded items appliances kitchen cabinets carpeting certain other materials we tend to have a longer fixed pricing.
Typically it's on average I'd say about 2 years.
So there we use the power of our buying volume to -- and we typically single-source our branded items so that -- and we trade that for a good pricing and a locked position.
And like I said appliances is probably the classic one.
Lighting fixtures are another one; and to some extent windows.
Other materials were really much much shorter term and were subject to commodity prices.
Concrete is an example of that where the fluctuations are every couple of months.
Lumber we vary by geography.
It can be 2 months to 6 months tops typically and that will vary quite a bit.
On the labor front sometimes the price is tied to a community if it's a short community life.
Other times it's tied to just pure timing.
Having said that if the subcontractor uses piece workers and that's not uncommon and their pricing goes up they may have a problem delivering the velocity we need and sometimes we may have to reluctantly reconsider the pricing partway through their contract to be able to keep up with an accelerated pace.
So I'd say the answer is it's all over the place.
In general though it's definitely a linked relationship.
Pricing -- subcontractor pricing is typically going up as velocity is increasing.
And as velocity goes up home prices -- homebuilders check their velocity by increasing the home prices.
So they generally go hand-in-hand and that's why while we are concerned and we don't want to sell too far out in advance we don't lose too much sleep over it because we -- the construction cost increases typically come in an environment where we're able to get home price increases too.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeremy Pinchot with Gilford Securities.
Research Division</strong> One quick question and maybe a quick follow-up.
Any thoughts or color you can give us on potential plans for the preferred shares? Yes.
I mean we're prohibited by covenant from paying the dividend on the preferred until such time as our coverage ratio is vastly improved from where we are now.
Once we get to that level I think it's 2x then it's up to the Board of Directors to make a determination as when it would be appropriate to turn the dividend back on.
Beyond that I mean we're not considering doing anything with the preferreds.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And clearly no line of sight yet on when that 2x would occur? None.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just more specifically regionally any color or more detail on order and traffic trends in California and Texas? I'd say both of those have been pretty solid and steady.
The only place where I could say we've seen a little change in order trends might be in the immediate D.C.
suburbs just in the last 2 months as often when you have the debt ceiling battles and now with the fiscal cliff battles.
There's just a little bit more hesitancy there.
But putting that aside -- that market aside I'd say overall has been pretty steady everywhere.
Your next question is from the line of Alex Barrón with Housing Research Center.
LLC</strong> I wanted to focus a little bit on the SG&amp;A and I guess look back over the last couple of years.
Looks like you guys went from $238 million 2 years ago to $211 million last year to $190 million this year and yet your revenues have been better than the last 2 years.
So can you kind of walk us back through what has changed? Is it headcount or what else is going on there? I mean headcount is the biggest component of it.
And then anything else we've just scrubbed every line item that is in SG&amp;A and tried to appropriately reduce it.
Some instances in the past we had contracts that we couldn't get out of.
I'll use an unusual example an HR contract for a particular tracking of performance reviews that was $100 000 a year or whatever the number was that we said "Boy I wish we didn't pay the $100 000 because we could do it a different way cheaper." Because we don't have 6 500 associates anymore we couldn't get out of it contractually.
It's now kind of gone away so it's not in SG&amp;A.
That's just a example Alex? Office leases would be similar things where we would've liked to have reduced it even sooner but we are contractually obligated for a certain period.
And then when that period is up we move to smaller spaces or renegotiate.
I mean we just tightly manage cost.
And clearly it was painful for us and the entire industry in this downturn.
But we took the appropriate steps to manage costs as tightly as we can or could and it's paying off dividend.
We've been saying for quite some time that as revenues increase we're going to have a lot of operating leverage.
And now you're actually seeing that demonstrated with actual results.
I'll add one other point and that's using an old cliché necessity is the mother of invention.
We certainly have learned to be more efficient in this downturn.
And hopefully efficiency is that we're going to keep in place even as the market picks up and we've been demonstrating it so far as our volume goes up.
Examples of that we had service call centers throughout every division.
So if somebody had a leaky toilet in the Galloping Hills neighborhood in Northern California they'd call that local office and there would be an operator there to take the notes in terms of their complaint and send out a purchase order -- or a service order to our staff.
Now that is all done -- almost every location in the country is handled centrally in one call center far more efficient.
It's here in the states it's not overseas but it's a far far more efficient way to operate.
We are regionalizing accounts payable entry in many more geographies which is more efficient.
We are regionalizing the purchase order setup coordinating with the purchasing departments which is far more efficient.
So there are a number of efficiencies we've implemented and that helps our SG&amp;A especially as we are growing.
Your next question is from the line of Susan Berliner with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple questions from me.
Ara I was wondering if you could comment on what you're hearing regarding the mortgage interest tax deduction potentially changing and if there -- as you see what's going on in Congress what you think could be the potential from any of your homebuyers? I'm assuming it's pretty small.
Just want to know if you guys could quantify it.
Sure.
Well it's anybody's call as to what's finally going to happen but there has certainly been a lot of talk about eliminating the deduction on second homes.
And there has been a lot of talk on reducing the ceiling further on deductible mortgages from the current $1 million dollar level to something lower the $500 000 market has been bantered about.
Neither of those concern us too much.
While we don't think it's an appropriate time to deal with anything that can derail the housing recovery because we think it's just so critical to the overall economy we recognize the fiscal imbalance.
And generally we're part of the leading builders of America and we endorse somehow getting to a better budget situation and avoiding getting into the fiscal cliff.
So we recognize something is going to happen.
Generally speaking the over $500 000 mortgage level is not a big part of our market.
Our average price is in the low $300 000 range.
So we're not overly concerned about that.
And while we do sell some second homes it's not a huge part of our market.
And thirdly we do have a little niche in our business the active adult business.
Our customers today in that niche are taking financing.
Most of them a greater percentage anyway about -- I think about 2/3 are taking financing.
Most would qualify for an all cash and I think they are just taking advantage of the opportunity of low rates right now to get financing.
I don't think it would affect them very dramatically.
So as I said we're concerned about any legislation that affects housing in any negative way.
And certainly mortgage interest deductibility is on our radar screen.
But if it's in balance with a better budget overall and they're not too severe I think it's something that the homebuilders are prepared to deal with.
Research Division</strong> Great.
My other question I apologize if I missed this.
Your orders for November being up about 18.5% can you talk about -- I mean with Sandy an impact for that? Or is that a good run rate or how should we think about that? I wouldn't say Sandy was a much of a factor at all.
I mean frankly it occurred in the last few days of October.
And while there's a little pickup in traffic in that market I think most customers are trying to figure out what they're going to do they're still talking to their insurance companies and I don't think that most are in a position to go out and buy a new house because there's flooded.
I'd say if anything it may have slowed modestly but it's only affected kind of New Jersey in a material way.
So I don't think it affected the number overall.
But I think it actually -- it reduced some sales we probably would have otherwise had in the New Jersey marketplace and maybe Delaware to a lesser degree.
But I don't think it's a material number.
But there weren't a lot of people out looking for houses for a few weeks as you can imagine.
Your next question is from the line of Michael Kim with CRT Capital Group.
Research Division</strong> First on gross margins just wondering if you could describe the gross margin variance between your newly identified lots versus legacy lots? And do you think we're going to see the differential widen over the course of the next year? Or would you expect any movements to be in tandem? It's a difficult question to answer but if you go to Slide 15 in our presentation.
We tried to -- I think there's a correlation but I can't tell you exactly what the impact is.
In general our legacy lots have lower margins on average than our newly identified lots do.
So we think we're going to continue to march towards that 20% or 21%.
But if you look on Slide 15 you can see that on the second quarter of '11 39% of our deliveries were from newly identified and the margin was 14.8%.
I'm not going to do every quarter here.
But in the fourth quarter of '11 it was 58% newly identified and our margins had increased to 15.5%.
By the second quarter of '12 that 43% of newly identified had increased to 61% and our margins increased from 15.3% to 17.4% and so on.
So it's closely related.
In general margins are higher probably closer to the normalized level the 20% and 21% on the newly identified and they're less than that on our legacy.
Obviously average can be misapplied when you look at an individual house sale or an individual community.
But I think on average that's the correlation.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And on -- when you're buying finished lots on a quarterly takedown basis what is the gross margin differential and what do the gross margins look for the GSO land banking arrangement relative to the company average? Well gross margins on finished lot acquisitions depending on which division and what their overhead structure is can certainly be 16% or so and still drive a good IRR.
And in some cases where we have to develop the land if it's a large-enough parcels the gross margins may need to be 27% or 28%.
So that's kind of the different range that we can see.
And as Larry mentioned just in terms of general guidance the GSO transactions don't really occur with finished lots.
Just doesn't make economic sense to if we already have a finished lot arrangement.
So I think you can draw the conclusion that the GSO transactions have probably a higher gross margin than our overall company average.
Research Division</strong> Do you have -- could you provide a sense of magnitude in terms of the benefit on the GSO land banking skills? The sense of magnitude in terms of what? Research Division</strong> Relative to the average right now? In terms of the margin? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Yes I think again $250 million sounds like a huge number but it is not going to be $250 million in a quarter or $250 million even 1 year.
The average length of time these communities are going to be outstanding is probably around 3 years.
So if you divided that up and then divided it by quarter -- you divide it by annual and then divide it by quarters yes it will have some incremental negative impact on margin to the extent that they've bought parcels that we didn't previously own.
On the ones we've previously owned it has no impact on margin comes through on the interest.
But I think in terms of you try to model it I wouldn't get overly obsessed with it.
I think it is an incremental negative but not material.
Yes I wouldn't -- I think the effect on the GSO transaction will be far far less on gross margin.
I think the effect will be more on our top line.
It just allows us to do that many more transactions and to be able to grow our top line all the more since it -- our ideal scenario is to buy every single lot on a finished-lot basis.
And then we can do far more volume than we're doing now.
It's hard to do every single lot but with the GSO transaction it allows us to do more homebuilding; that synthesizes the effect of buying from a developer on a finished-lot takedown.
So I think it has more to do with volume than gross margin effect.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And just lastly when will you be posting the fourth quarter supplemental contract data summary is the website just similar to last quarter? Yes we will put it out so that you can do it x JVs by market segment.
I think that's what you're talking about.
Yes we will be putting that out.
Your next question is a follow-up question from the line of Michael Rehaut with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to circle back to the order ASPs.
I know you mentioned before Ara that it's driven by mix of communities and mix of product to larger homes.
But just trying to get a sense of given that earlier in the year certainly there's a discernible trend here but the jump in 4Q.
I mean I would think that perhaps you wouldn't necessarily be able to hold on to all of that type of jump near term although perhaps longer term it's something that we could see.
Is that fair to -- a fair way to think about it? To be honest I just haven't focused on what that average sales price projection or mix looks like not that we give out projections anyway.
But I just don't think we're -- we've got a discernible trend or strategy change right now.
I think it's just going to depend on mixes both product and geography and community more than a strategy change.
We are continuing to see an environment where we're able to pass on home price increases I mean just even in the last month or 2 as well.
So that part is not changing and hopefully that environment will continue.
Yes Mike we did not make a conscious decision across the country to go to higher-priced homes.
I mean some of it was driven by what the land was that we were able to find that made sense for us to purchase.
And some of it could actually be within a business unit what kind of land they found and the other could be that there's more land in a higher-priced business unit and less land in a lower-priced business unit so that it's geographic mix.
So there was not a conscious decision for us to say "Let's raise our average sales price by doing a different kind of product." Having said that in each of our individual markets if consumers want the bigger model that we offer in that community rather than the smaller model that we offer in that community you were seeing some of that happen.
They are just saying with these low interest rates we can buy a bigger house or we're loading it up with options because it's affordable because of the lower interest rates as well.
So those are just things that are occurring in the marketplace rather than a very specific strategy on our part to have it occur.
Research Division</strong> Right.
That's fine.
I appreciate that.
And just lastly on the community count you mentioned that you expect things to maybe turn up a bit in the second half of next year.
And I'm sorry if you hit this before but should we expect a further or continued decline in -- over the next couple of quarters? I noticed that with your November order growth of 18% it looks like that was primarily versus 27% in the fourth quarter.
I mean it looks like that was primarily driven by perhaps community count continuing to shrink because your sales per community was still solid.
Yes it's not something we'll give you more specific guidance on but I think by us saying growth in the second half of the year you can infer from that pretty accurately that it's just a lag of when these communities come on stream that we've purchased in the last half of 2012.
But there's a lag effect and we're not expecting growth in communities.
Could it go down a few? Sure it could happen.
Research Division</strong> So just to be sure I understand growth in the second half of next year is off of current levels? Yes.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question is from the line of Alex Barrón with Housing Research Center.
LLC</strong> Just kind of wanted to follow-up on the SG&amp;A question.
Is it fair to assume that you guys hit the 10% rate -- your revenues are almost close to $500 million.
Is it fair to assume that you could stay close to these SG&amp;A levels as you ramp up towards $2 billion.
You mean by basically annualizing the fourth quarter? Yes I think that's fair to say.
Yes I think our target is 10% on an annual basis so we hit it for the quarter.
We think that's a sustainable level if we could keep the volumes smoothly there every quarter.
Yes and we achieved that in the last cycle.
LLC</strong> Okay that's great.
My other question was in the Phoenix market I guess we saw probably the highest price appreciation this year and we heard land prices were going up pretty significantly.
How do you guys work around maintaining I guess discipline to make sure you're still hitting your targets there for underwriting? Again we underwrite every single piece with the information for that piece.
We look at surrounding comparables we look at what they're selling for currently what prices are we adjust for finishes.
If they have granite countertops if they've got tile flooring and so forth so we get an apples-to-apples comparison.
We look at their pace.
And if we can pencil back to make a land acquisition work and hit our hurdles we do it.
And thus far we've been pretty successful.
I will say interestingly in Phoenix we've had more success in that market in particular on the larger product and that's been a trend for a couple of years now.
And we've got some very good cost-efficient larger product that has been working very nicely for us and it's penciled on our new land acquisition.
So every market is challenging.
They always are.
In general while this market is challenging it feels like while we have the same competition from publics that we always do got a little less from privates so we feel pretty good about the outlook on land acquisition in all of our markets including even a hot market like Phoenix.
And we're staying -- I think the main point Alex is that even in a hot market like Phoenix we are not assuming any home price appreciation or base improvement.
We're staying disciplined to our current home prices current home paces current construction costs.
If it gets to a 25% unlevered IRR we'll do it.
If it doesn't we don't win the bid.
Well thank you all very much.
We're pleased with the results we are able to report this quarter and we look forward to some great calls in 2013 as well.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you for participating and have a nice day.
All parties may now disconnect.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for Hovnanian Enterprises Fiscal 2013 First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
An archive of this webcast will be available after the completion of the call and run for 12 months.
This conference is being recorded for rebroadcast.
[Operator Instructions] Management will make some opening remarks about the first quarter results and then open the line for questions.
The company will also be webcasting a slide presentation along with the opening comments from management.
The slides are available on the investors page of the company's website at www.khov.com.
Those listeners who would like to follow along should log on to the website at this time.
Before we begin I would like to turn the call over to Jeff O'Keefe Vice President Investor Relations.
Jeff please go ahead.
Thank you very much.
I'm going to read through our forward-looking statements very quickly.
All statements during this conference that are not historical fact should be considered as forward-looking statements.
Such statements involve known and unknown risks uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results performance or achievements of the company to be materially different from any future results performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements.
Although we believe that our plans intentions and expectations reflected in or suggested by such forward-looking statements are reasonable we can give no assurance that such plans intentions or expectations will be achieved.
Such risks uncertainties and other factors include but are not limited to changes in general and local economic and industry and business conditions and impacts of the sustained homebuilding downturn; adverse weather and other environmental conditions and natural disasters; changes in market conditions and seasonality of the company's business; changes in home prices and sales activities in the markets where the company builds homes; government regulation including regulations concerning development of land the homebuilding sales and customer financing processes; tax laws and the environment; fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of mortgage financing; shortages in and price fluctuations of raw materials and labor; the availability and cost of suitable land and improved lots; levels of competition; availability of financing to the company; utility shortages and outages or rate fluctuations; levels of indebtedness and restrictions on the company's operations and activities imposed by agreements governing the company's outstanding indebtedness; the company's sources of liquidity; changes in credit ratings; availability of net operating loss carryforwards; operations through joint ventures with third parties; product liability litigation warranty claims and claims by mortgage investors; successful identification and integration of acquisition; significant influence of the company's controlling stockholders; changes in tax laws affecting the after-tax cost of owning a home; geopolitical risks terrorist acts and other acts of war; and other factors described in detail on the company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 31 2012.
Except as otherwise required by applicable securities laws we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events changed circumstances or any other reason.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Ara Hovnanian our Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer.
Thanks Jeff and thank you all for participating in this morning's call to review the results of our first quarter ended January 2013.
Joining me today from the company are Larry Sorsby Executive Vice President and CFO; Brad O'Connor Vice President Chief Accounting Officer and Corporate Controller; David Valiaveedan Vice President of Finance and Treasurer and Jeff O'Keefe Vice President of Investor Relations.
Starting on the top left-hand corner of Slide 3 we show that our new order trends have continued the robust growth that we experienced last year with net contract dollars including unconsolidated joint ventures posting year-over-year increases of 42%.
Moving across the top of the slide our net contract increased 25% on a unit basis despite a slight drop in our active selling communities.
That resulted in a 43% increase in net contracts per community which we shown in the lower left-hand corner.
The dollar value of our backlog increased by 40% during the first quarter to $812 million.
Continuing with our first quarter performance please turn to Slide 4.
Here we showed our total revenues increased 33% which is shown on the top left-hand quadrant.
On the upper right-hand side you see that our gross margin expanded 50 basis points year-over-year during the first quarter.
While we'll discuss this in more detail momentarily I'm pleased to say we expect continued growth in gross margins in the later quarters of this year.
As you can see in the lower left-hand quadrant the increases in our total revenues allowed us to leverage our fixed costs.
As such both SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales and total interest as a percentage of sales were significantly lower during the first quarter of 2013 compared to last year's first quarter.
Finally in the lower right-hand corner loss before debt and land-related charges was $20 million in the first quarter of '13 compared to $34 million in the first quarter of last year.
Turning to Slide 5 given the size and gross margin of our contract backlog and assuming market conditions and our current sales pace remains steady we are pleased to report that and project our return to profitability through the full fiscal '13.
We expect our deliveries revenues and gross margins to increase in fiscal '13 compared to fiscal '12 with the greatest improvements in these metrics to occur during the second half of the year.
In addition we're optimistic that the recent increases in the pace of net contracts we've reported will continue and could lead to the best spring selling season in years.
On Slide 6 I give a more granular view of our recent sales trends.
Here we show the dollar amount of net contracts for each of the recent 4 months in blue the same month 1 year ago in yellow and the same month 2 years ago in gray.
Needless to say the growth in sales is significant.
As a matter of fact every single month in fiscal '13 is virtually double what it was 2 years ago.
If you look at net contracts per active selling community as we do on Slide 7 you can see the improvements in each month.
This slide shows the monthly net contracts per community with the most recent 12-month period in blue and the same month 1 year before in yellow.
We sold more homes per community in each of the prior 12 months than we did the year before.
In fact the 3.3 net contracts per community we reported for February of '13 was the highest net contracts per community for a single month since September of '07 when we had our Deal of the Century sales promotion.
This time we raised prices.
Slide 8 shows the annual net contracts per community for the last 15 years through a variety of cycles.
While the seasonally adjusted number for 2013 shown in blue is a significant improvement at about 34 net contracts per community or a 21% increase over the prior year and a 59% increase over 2011 there's still a substantial amount of upside opportunity before we return to the more normalized level in the mid-40s per community that you see earlier in the slide.
Slide 9 shows that we have the fifth highest net contracts per community for the prior 12 months when compared to our peers.
Furthermore our average sales prices have increased more than most of our peers.
Our average net contract price increased 18% in our first quarter better than all but one of our peers and was 50% higher than the average increase our peers reported for their most recent quarter.
This is a result of mix and home price increase.
Slide 10 shows our active selling community count.
On this slide we show consolidated newly-identified communities in blue consolidated legacy communities in yellow and joint venture communities in gray.
After having grown our community count in fiscal '11 our sales pace per community grew so significantly during fiscal '12 that we sold out of communities faster than we had anticipated.
This resulted in a drop in our community count in fiscal '12.
However we've begun to reverse that trend in the first quarter of '13 as the land acquisition teams were very busy during fiscal '12 and that had a positive impact on our ability to open new communities during our first quarter.
We ended the January '13 quarter with 193 active selling communities slightly ahead of the 189 active selling communities we had at the end of last quarter.
Since we ended the quarter with cash above the high end of our cash target range we have the liquidity to increase our land acquisition pace even further going forward.
We will continue to pursue active land parcels in all of our markets.
Slide 11 shows our quarterly deliveries in blue and the net additions of our newly acquired land in yellow for each of the past 3 quarters.
Over this period of time our net additions have been in excess of our deliveries and thus we have grown our total lots controlled position by about 900 lots.
Our land committee calendar to review and approve new land parcels continues to be very busy.
However we remain disciplined when we underwrite our land.
We are still able to find land that generates unlevered IRRs that meet or exceed our underwriting guidelines based on the current home prices and sales pace.
On Slide 12 we show the homebuilding gross margin percentage for fiscal '11 in gray for each quarter of '12 in yellow and the first quarter of '13 in blue.
The first quarter of '13 our gross margin increased 50 basis points when compared to the first quarter of '12.
As you can see for the past 4 quarters our gross margin has improved on a year-over-year basis.
Given the gross margins in our backlog combined with current home prices and construction costs we expect our gross margin to increase further during fiscal 2013 with gross margins for the full year surpassing fiscal '12.
Moving on to our operating leverage on Slide 13 we showed total SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales; once again 2011 is in gray each quarter of 2012 is in yellow and the first quarter of 2013 is in blue.
Below each of these bars we show the absolute dollar of our total SG&amp;A for each quarter.
As seen on this slide SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenues has declined each of the past 4 quarters on a year-over-year basis.
During the first quarter of fiscal '13 we held our total SG&amp;A dollars steady at $49 million compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal '12.
Our ability to grow revenues without proportional increases in SG&amp;A expenses continues to provide us with operating leverage.
Total SG&amp;A as a percentage of total revenues improved from 17.1% in fiscal '12's first quarter to 13.8% in our recent first quarter.
Our plan is to hold the dollar amount of our SG&amp;A expenses relatively steady through the remainder of 2013.
As our revenues continue to grow throughout the year we would expect further improvements in our SG&amp;A ratio each quarter and favorable year-over-year comparisons.
On a historical basis our normalized SG&amp;A ratio is approximately 10% of revenues.
Now I'll turn it over to Larry who will discuss our inventory liquidity and mortgage operations as well as a few other topics.
Thanks Ara.
We continue to look for new land deals in all of our markets.
The left-hand side of Slide 14 shows that we have controlled 23 500 lots since January of 2009 including 1 600 new lots during the first quarter of 2013.
The upper right-hand side of this slide shows that total gross additions during the first quarter were 1 800 lots.
We also walked away from about 200 newly-identified lots.
In recent quarters walkaways typically occur during the initial due diligence period and our deposit is refunded.
The net result for the first quarter was that our total lots purchased or controlled since January 2009 increased about 1 600 lots sequentially from the fourth quarter of 2012.
For the third quarter in a row we're replenishing our land faster than we are using it.
Our consolidated owned and optioned lot position increased sequentially by 355 lots during the first quarter.
Turning now to Slide 15 you'll see our owned and optioned land position broken out by our publicly reported segments.
Based on our trailing 12-month deliveries we own 3.5 years worth of land.
However if you exclude the 6 813 mothballed lots we only own 2.1 years of land based on the delivery rate of the past 4 quarters.
Having said that we are more optimistic that the improving new home demand and pricing trends in our markets will translate to mothballed lots coming out of the storage room sooner than most people thought 1 year ago.
At the end of the first quarter 78% of our optioned lots are newly-identified lots.
Excluding mothballed lots 67% of our total lots are newly-identified lots.
Our investment in land option deposits was $49.4 million at January 31 2013 with $47.9 million in cash deposits and the other $1.5 million of deposits being held by letters of credit.
Additionally we have another $6.9 million invested in pre-development expenses.
Turning now to Slide 16 we show our mothballed lots broken out by geographic segment.
In total we have 6 813 mothballed lots within 52 communities that were mothballed as of January 31 2013.
The book value at the end of the first quarter for these remaining mothballed lots was $124.2 million net of an impairment balance of $465.9 million.
We are carrying these mothballed lots at 21% of their original value.
Since 2009 we've unmothballed approximately 3 400 lots within 60 communities.
We do expect to unmothball additional communities as we move forward.
One of the reasons we say that is because we have been able to raise prices in more than 65% of our communities during our first quarter.
In particular we were able to raise prices significantly in some of our Northern California communities during the past 13 weeks.
Northern California is an area where we have a significant number of mothballed lots.
Turning to Slide 17 it shows what happened to prices in our 8 communities in Northern California in just the past 13 weeks.
We have been able to raise prices between 2.5% and 11.3% over that 13-week period.
Northern California has been a white hot market lately but this gives you an idea of how much our decision to raise prices is truly made on a community-by-community basis even within a rather small geographic area.
These price increases are not indicative of what's going on in every market.
In a market like Phoenix Arizona we've been able to raise prices at a similar pace to Northern California; but in places like New Jersey our ability to raise prices has been much more modest.
Looking at all of our consolidated communities in the aggregate including mothballed communities we have an inventory book value of about $1 billion net of $668 million of impairments which we recorded on 96 of our communities.
Of the properties that have been impaired we're carrying them at 22% of their pre-impaired values.
Turning now to Slide 18 where we show the breakout for the components of our gross margin for both the first quarter of 2013 and the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012.
Keep in mind that we made the following statement about some choppiness in our gross margin in both our 2012 third quarter and 2012 fourth quarter conference calls.
"While we don't expect the sequential increase trajectory that we've seen for the past 5 or 6 quarters to continue quite so steadily going forward we do expect the gross margin to gradually improve and get back to the 20% to 21% range." We believe that this slight sequential decline in homebuilding gross margin percentage for our first quarter is only a temporary setback and is related to the choppiness we mentioned on the 2 previous calls and the lower deliveries that are typical of our first quarter.
The largest driver of the sequential decline in gross margin from the fourth quarter to the first quarter is indirect overheads primarily construction overheads warranty costs and property taxes which are included in cost of sales.
A significant portion of these indirect overheads are fixed period costs impacted by the number of active communities.
Historically our first quarter is the lowest delivery quarter for the year.
Therefore these fixed costs related to indirect overheads are spread over the lower number of deliveries in the first quarter and result in our gross margin being adversely impacted purely due to delivery volume.
While our home building revenues increased significantly year-over-year sequentially revenues in our seasonally low first quarter declined 28.8% compared to the first -- to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012.
This caused our indirect overheads as a percentage of homebuilding revenues to increase to 6.9% in the first quarter from 5.2% in the fourth quarter and this is the primary reason for the sequential decline in our gross margin percentage during the first quarter.
In fact direct margin which includes all of the homes' specific costs such as land development construction material and labor commissions and financing concessions increased sequentially from 23.5% in the fourth quarter to 23.9% in the first quarter.
As our deliveries and homebuilding revenues grow throughout the remainder of fiscal 2013 indirect overheads as a percentage of homebuilding revenues should come down and we expect to see our gross margin increase for our full 2013 year compared to the full gross margin for 2012.
We have experienced cost pressures on both labor and material through the first quarter of fiscal 2013.
However on a consolidated basis we've been able to raise home prices to more than cover the cost of these increases.
To further validate this point our housing land and development costs as a percentage of homebuilding revenues was 71.4% in the fourth quarter of 2012 and declined to 71.3% in the first quarter of fiscal 2013.
During the first quarter of 2013 there were $15.2 million of impairment reversals related to deliveries compared to $16.9 million in the first quarter of 2012.
Another area of discussion for the quarter is related to our current deferred tax asset valuation allowance.
At the end of the fourth quarter the valuation allowance in the aggregate was $943.9 million.
Our valuation allowance is a very significant asset not currently reflected on our balance sheet and we've taken many steps to protect it.
We expect to be able to reverse this allowance after we generate consecutive years of solid profitability and continue to project solid profitability going forward.
When a reversal does occur we expect the remaining allowance to be added back to our shareholders' equity further strengthening our balance sheet.
Today we could issue approximately 100 million additional shares of common Hovnanian's stock for cash without limiting our ability to utilize our NOLs.
We ended the first quarter with total shareholders deficit of $481 million.
If you add back the total valuation allowance as we've done on Slide 19 then our shareholders' equity would be $463 million.
Let me reiterate that the tax asset valuation allowance is for GAAP purposes only.
For tax purposes our tax assets maybe carried forward for 20 years from occurrence and we expect to utilize those tax loss carryforwards as we generate profits in the future.
For the first $2.1 billion of pretax profits we generate we will not have to pay federal income taxes.
Now let me update you briefly on our mortgage operations.
Turning to Slide 20 you can see that the credit quality of our mortgage customers continues to be strong with average FICO scores of 742.
For the first quarter of fiscal 2013 our mortgage company captured 74% of our non-cash home-buying customers.
Turning to Slide 21 we show a breakout of all the various loan types originated by our mortgage operations for the first quarter of fiscal 2013 compared to all of fiscal 2012.
23.2% of originations were for FHA loans during our fiscal 2013 first quarter compared to 27.8% we saw during all of fiscal '12 and the 34.1% we saw during fiscal 2011.
So our use of FHA is clearly falling.
At the same time we saw our conforming conventional originations increase to 58.8 -- 58.5% during the first quarter of 2013 compared to the 53.7% for all of fiscal 2012 and 47.1% during fiscal 2011.
Regarding the make whole and repurchase requests we've received from various banks we continue to believe that the majority of these requests that we receive are unjustified.
On Slide 22 you'll see our payments for repurchase to the make whole requests fiscal 2008 through the first quarter of fiscal 2013.
During the first quarter of 2013 our repayments were $650 000 on 17 loans; 13 of these 17 loans during the first quarter of 2013 were for second-lien repurchases which have dramatically lower dollar amounts.
During the first quarter of 2013 we received 13 repurchase inquiries which was lower than the 17 average repurchase inquires per quarter in fiscal 2012.
We believe that any losses resulting from repurchase and make whole requests have been adequately reserved for in previous periods.
At the end of the first quarter our reserve for loan repurchases and make whole requests were $9.1 million which we believe is adequate for our exposure.
To date mortgage repurchases have not been a significant problem but we will continue to monitor this issue closely.
Now turning to our debt maturity ladder which can be found on Slide 23 we have only $122 million of debt maturing before 2016 and we remain confident that we can deal with the unsecured notes maturing between 2014 and 2017 either through refinancing them prior to maturity or paying them off as they come due.
Since the end of fiscal 2008 we've reduced our debt by more than $975 million.
As you can see on Slide 24 after spending $111.7 million on land and land development we ended the first quarter of fiscal 2013 with approximately $262 million in homebuilding cash including cash used to collateralize letters of credit.
We feel good about our current liquidity position.
Our cash position at the end of the quarter exceeded our target range of $170 million to $245 million.
We're able to evaluate and actively pursue all attractive land deals that are taking place in our markets.
To date we've not had to pass up on a single land deal because of lack of capital.
If we find sufficient new land parcels that meet our underwriting criteria we are comfortable managing our cash to the lower end of our $170 million to $245 million range.
We continue to look for land deals in all of our markets and we continue to put dollars to work in land deals that meet our IRR hurdle rate.
Over the past couple of years we've been explaining to investors that we believed we would be able to increase our inventory turnover rate which will allow us to grow the company even if we did not increase our capital position.
On Slide #25 you can clearly see the progress we've made on this front during the past year.
The first the bar shows our inventory turnover rates in fiscal 2002 before the boom and the bust.
The next 2 bars indicate our turnover rates in fiscal '11 and '12.
We increased our inventory turnover rate from 1.1x during fiscal 2011 to 1.4x during fiscal 2012.
Looking to the right side of the slide you'll see that on a trailing 12-month basis ended January 2013 our turnover rate increased further to 1.6x.
We believe our historical turnover rates will be achievable again in the future.
Additionally over the past few years we've demonstrated our ability to utilize joint ventures and land banking arrangements to grow as well.
We remain confident in our ability to grow the company.
Now I'll turn it back to Ara for some brief closing comments.
Thanks Larry.
We're thrilled that our traffic and sales remain strong.
As is often the case in margins and volume our first quarter is always a seasonally weak quarter for us.
However we feel that we're well set up to deliver the growth throughout the remainder of 2013.
With the expected growth in revenues in the coming quarter we should be able to leverage our fixed costs which should lead to improvements in gross margin as well as SG&amp;A and interest as a percentage of revenues.
We are excited to project full year profitability for fiscal '13.
It's been a long time coming but the steps we've taken throughout the downturn have positioned us well for the long-awaited recovery in the housing market.
This concludes our formal remarks and we'll be prepared to open it up for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut representing JPMorgan.
It's actually Will Wong on for Mike.
I had a quick question on pricing.
You said that pricing has been increasing in about 65% of your communities.
On average what's sort of the percentage increase in those communities that you guys have been able to raise price obviously a big range but if you guys can just give us an average for the company that would be great.
I don't think we've tracked it -- on one of the slides we showed you the wide range in those communities.
It's just not a number we track.
If I did I guess -- if we did I guess I could easily given the breakout of our 18% increase per quarter of what was mix and what was price increase but it's just not a number we track.
I mean in some communities it's $500 or $1000; in other communities it's been tens of thousands of dollars as evidenced by Slide 18.
So -- or not 18 17 I guess is the slide.
So they are a wide range and we just don't have an average to provide you.
Okay that's fair.
And then in terms of gross margin and backlog you mentioned that that gives you confidence in terms of achieving growth on a year-over-year basis.
In 2013 would you be able to share with us sort of what those margins look like at this time? They look better than they did in 2012 and that gives us confidence to project an increase but no we're not going to provide you with the specifics of what's in backlog.
Okay.
And then just last question if I could.
In terms of credit I know you noticed -- you noted that the FHA and government loans are kind of decreasing as a percentage of your overall portfolio.
Can you speak to sort of mortgage credit do think that's just on the margin maybe loosening just a little bit? I don't think we've seen any indication of it loosening in terms of underwriting criteria.
I think it's relatively stable on that front.
It's still frustrating the amount of documentation that our consumers have to put together.
It seems like every file's 4 to 6 inches thick when we're done with and -- but I don't think the underwriting guidelines of FHA VA or Conventional have changed to loosen anything in the last quarter or 2.
By the way on the whole we're still -- definitely stricter guidelines than we were pre-subprime problems which is unfortunate because there are people that for decades have been able to qualify reasonable sound credit just not as pristine as those that easily qualify.
They're being denied today.
Eventually the pendulum which has swung to the overcorrection mode in terms of difficult qualification because of what happened with subprime that pendulum will come back to the middle and that should add a further boost to the housing recovery a little later in the cycle.
Your next question comes from the line of David Goldberg representing UBS.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to delve actually Ara into your comment that you just made in response to credit underwriting and the people that aren't able to get credit today who maybe before this sub-prime boom that happened could get credit.
And what I want to get a little more granularity is is the issue is the credit score issue or is it a blemish in the credit history? Because it seems like a 640 or 650 FICO which is about what you're doing on FHAs generally speaking is still -- with a good credit background is able to get a mortgage.
So I was wondering if you could give us some more clarity about the comments and who's not able to qualify today that you think will be able to qualify at some point in the future? Let me give you a couple of examples of what's happened.
And I believe the reason for this is related to the repurchase and make whole request that the industry is faced with not just builder-owned mortgage companies but all mortgage companies are faced with that risk and therefore they're being very conservative.
What we're seeing on the repurchase and make whole request are second-guessing underwriting decisions that the industry made 3 to 5 years ago and back then we might have made a loan to where somebody was putting 30% or 40% down on a loan down payment instead of a 5% and 10% down payment and we said that offset the risk of he missed making his mortgage payment on time for 30 or 60 days a couple of times and we said well because he's put in a larger down payment that offsets that risk and it's a good loan and I still today believe it's a good loan.
Today we wouldn't make that loan.
And the reason we wouldn't make that loan is those loans that we made exactly like that 3 or 5 years ago if the guy loses his job 3 years after making his mortgage payment consistently on time for the previous 36 months and then he loses his job totally unrelated to that mortgage decision to where we said because he put a 40% down payment we're going to ignore a -- or it was a compensating factor for that slight credit blemish the loan comes back to us and we say -- they say repurchase it it's just bad underwriting.
So we're not motivated to make rational credit decisions that are slightly out-of-the-box of the guidelines with strong compensating factors such as substantially increased down payments.
That is what in my opinion has led to our inability to qualify people today that for the last 30 years we would have approved because of compensating factors.
We've thrown out the rational underwriting of a human being.
Right now it's either in-the-box of the criteria or it's not.
No matter what the compensating factors are.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering if we could talk a little bit about kind of on a go-forward basis -- and I'm not asking for guidance or anything like that but I'm just trying to think about land costs and I totally understand that you guys are finding deals that pencil at the margins but I'm trying to understand land costs as a percent of home price given that in a lot of markets land costs are going up very quickly.
So as you look forward in the next 3 months 6 months 9 months whatever 12 months whatever do you see land costs staying pretty consistent as a percentage of the home price? Do you see them going up? Do you see them going down? And how is that going to influence -- and obviously price has something to do with it but just where you're looking for -- at land costs are they going up faster than home prices in a lot of cases? And how do you see that relative to the gross margin expansion potential? Well first of all it's an interesting phenomenon since the developed lot cost vary as a percentage of new home sales price varies dramatically from market-to-market and particularly the price point.
So it may vary from a low of 15% to 17% of sales price let's say in an area of North Carolina to 52% of sales price in Orange County in a prime location.
In general I'd say -- I haven't focused on the numbers but I would not be surprised as home pricing moves up to see that the land component as a percentage of sales price in all geographies creeps up just a little bit as well.
But as it does that we still typically have the abilities to get gross margin expansion.
I mean we're really driven by IRR even more than gross margin and we're very very flexible in how we'll pursue a transaction.
We are happy if it's a rolling lot transaction with the developer finishing lots and we're taking it down on an as-needed basis.
We'll take a lower gross margin because we know the inventory turnovers will compensate for that.
So that's one way to achieve the IRR.
It's our favorite way if we can do it but not all markets have the availability of developers to feed you lots that way.
In other cases where we have to buy the land in bulk and perhaps take on the land development task both the timing and the risk we typically need higher gross margins because the inventory turn is slower and therefore to get to the same IRR we'll need the higher margins.
So the short answer is it varies dramatically from market-to-market and price point-to-price point but I would say that we'll be trending up a little bit in terms of developed land cost as a percentage of home price.
Your next question comes from the line of Adam Rudiger representing Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> This is Joey Matthews on for Adam.
I have a question somewhat related to on your IRR discussion.
With your backlog up 41% do you think you'll focus more on margins going forward or volume to cover your fixed costs? Neither exactly.
We're focused on IRR.
And it's a little bit of both.
It's a little bit of volume play and margin play and the trade-offs.
So IRR is absolutely our driving force.
LLC Research Division</strong> And I have a question on your SG&amp;A this quarter.
It looks like home sales revenue declined about $135 million sequentially of course that's seasonal but your SG&amp;A was relatively flat.
I was wondering if there was anything special in there and then going forward what you see for SG&amp;A operating leverage for the rest of the year -- quarters this year? Kind of in normal times SG&amp;A as a percent of revenue is around 10%.
For all of 2012 we were at 12.8% and although on a year-over-year basis we saw that SG&amp;A percent fall in the first quarter of '13 compared to '12 because it was our seasonably low period we didn't get quite the operating leverage that we expected to for the full year.
For the full year I'm very confident that as a percent of revenues you're going to see our SG&amp;A as a percent of revenues decline from what you've seen in 2012 and will gradually migrate towards a 10% number over time.
In terms of dollars spend I think we show on the slide it's about $49 -- $49 million in the first quarter.
I mean it will hold relatively stable creeping up just a bit nowhere near the expansion of revenues that we project and SG&amp;A by its nature is somewhat fixed and that works to our benefit in later quarters as our revenues expand quite a bit.
LLC Research Division</strong> Sure.
And if I could squeak in a macro question.
What do you think the capacity of the industry is right now? And what do you think you can handle this year? What kind of max growth do you see this year? Well we certainly are comfortable achieving the kinds of growth that we're contracting for.
First quarter was a big growth quarter 42%.
I'd say the industry is preparing for that kind of growth.
I don't think it's a simple one.
And we're all challenged by it.
Frankly I think if there's much more growth than that I think most builders will resort to raising prices a bit till the infrastructure in terms of the building ability can catch up.
And that's not a terrible thing either.
But there have been some out there that have been projecting some fairly substantial growth.
I was listening to Mark Zandi at Moody's recently that actually projected 2014 starts of about 1.7 million which is about double this last year.
The industry would probably have a pretty tough time getting to that kind of growth and my guess would -- and by the way he's not alone and I hear and understand and believe that the demand side could be pulling us toward that number.
The supply side will have a challenge and I think the result will be a little bit less than that but more price appreciation than anyone is counting on right now.
Your next question comes from the line of Joel Locker representing FBN Securities.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just on your backlog conversion going forward.
I guess you dropped out around 56% on a consolidated basis versus 64% a year ago.
So a little over 12% drop or somewhere around there and just wondering if you look at the second or third quarter would you see a similar year-over-year drop on the conversion rates with...
Joel that's just not a number that we track.
I mean we have community-by-community budgets for sales and for deliveries and contract backlog conversion just isn't on our radar screen.
We were very pleased with our sales pace and we're very pleased with the deliveries that we had.
It was both above our expectations from a budgeting perspective.
But we just don't really follow -- I mean you don't have a better metric to follow I understand that sitting in your chair than backlog conversion but I can't really give you any color on it because it's not something we pay attention to.
What we focus on is the cancellation rate.
That's probably the closest metric to key what you're trying to achieve and I'd say cancellation rates are at historically very normal levels.
If anything they've been trending down.
They're typically plus or minus 20%.
Jeff I don't know if you have the number handy for the last quarter? I think it was slightly down from that but it's pretty much in the normal...
17% in the most recent quarter.
17% in the recent quarter.
I think it was down from where it was 1 year ago which is a positive thing in spite of the calc you did and some do on backlog conversion.
It's just not the way we look at it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And then what about on your gross margins? Obviously you're going to get some leverage on your indirect overhead and commissions even are coming down a little bit financing concessions but if you just single out that housing land and development cost number of the 71.3% where do you see that in the second third and fourth quarter based on the increased material prices offset by obviously increase in home prices.
As you know we're not giving very specific guidance.
I don't think most builders try to do that in this environment but suffice it to say we continue to expect home prices to outpace construction costs and therefore all parts of the -- we expect gross margin on the whole to improve and I think that component should as well.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Oppenheimer representing Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> This is Mike Dahl on for Dan.
I was hoping you guys could provide a little bit of regional color.
Total order growth seemed to actually pick up a little bit relative to last quarter but if we look at regional it seems like acceleration in the Southwest and Mid-Atlantic versus maybe some slowing in the Southeast and Midwest.
Could you talk about kind of what you're seeing there whether it's market-related community count or intentionally kind of managing pace.
Yes we're -- it really is related to where we were able to get communities online faster generally.
I'd say most of the markets are showing pretty robust health.
I'd say the only one that maybe is lagging just a bit might be the New Jersey -- the Central New Jersey market has been a little late to the ball but that's okay.
Different markets have different timing.
It will get there.
We're probably seeing less expansion in the Central Jersey part.
Interestingly the northern part closest to New York City has been extremely healthy and solid and we've been passing on some very good price increases in that part of the market.
But on the whole very good.
Houston has been great Phoenix continues to be great.
Northern California is just particularly strong.
Florida in particular Tampa -- excuse me Orlando and the Southeast coast even more than Tampa have been very very strong but the market feels good.
Recently Virginia's come back on.
There was a little bit of hesitation in the Virginia market and the Maryland market I'd say earlier on with the fiscal cliff discussions but frankly it's gone back and forth and back and forth.
I think the market just seems to have shrugged it off and said they're going to solve it eventually and gone back to home buying in that market as well.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then as a follow-up given the strength that you just talked about in Northern Cal coupled with the pricing trends you show in the slides from a capital allocation perspective how do you think about balancing bringing those mothballed -- the development spend needed to bring those mothballed communities online versus buying new land in those markets or in other markets today.
We have actually been under-invested.
So thus far our capital constraint has not dictated new acquisitions or unmothballing versus mothballing.
We'd rather have a lower cash balance and then had invested more.
So really the focus on unmothballing some communities has just more to do with trying to maximize our timing and looking at getting good returns on our new cash.
Overall as I think we mentioned I'm pretty optimistic about getting a better pace of unmothballing communities.
Those -- we've got -- we were talking about our inventory turns.
They've been growing despite the fact that we got a significant number of dollars invested in mothballed communities.
That will be a little icing on the cake as we start to unmothball those because we already own the land and it's on our books so there'll be some land development but we've -- we were able to phase the land development and still get a reasonably good turn on those communities.
So we feel pretty good about them.
The biggest section as we mentioned is in California.
The next biggest is in the Northeast in New Jersey and I think we'll start to see some more positive pricing dynamics there as well.
And your next question comes from the line of Alan Ratner representing Zelman &amp; Associates.
LLC</strong> Ara just adding on to that mothballed topic there if we kind of look at the gross margins you're delivering on at least the direct gross margins in that 23% or 24% earnings what would be -- what would have to be an appropriate level for you to make that decision to bring a project back online? Would we -- should we expect some degradation as those communities come back? Or are you targeting kind of the company average that you're delivering right now? To be honest again haven't focused on it.
We are really really driven by IRR more than gross margin.
But having said that I don't think -- while the unmothballed phenomenon that will be coming up will be helpful I don't think the percentage of unmothballed deliveries will be significant enough to be a needle mover.
So I wouldn't expect any positive or negative surprises from the unmothballing of communities.
I think that's the main point to focus on Alan.
As it comes in it wouldn't surprise me if an individual community we unmothballed had less than our normal margin but still had very good returns on the new dollars that we invested.
But as Ara said it just won't be enough deliveries in the period that you should model it.
LLC</strong> And then your comments on Virginia and Maryland I think you were talking specifically about the fiscal cliff but have you seen any more recent impact from the sequester that went in place earlier last week? And I guess just adding on that are there any other markets maybe ones that are specifically tied to the military or other kind of public sectors there that you're a little bit concerned about if this thing drags on longer? It's an interesting question.
Frankly I would've expected more impact with the recent heated up battles but I can't imagine a market that is more impacted than our Northern Virginia and close-in Maryland suburbs to the fiscal cliff discussions but boy the market just seems to have shrugged it off.
We can't note anything related to the sequester in any market.
Now it's early but there's certainly nothing that would lead us to believe that it's caused any degradation in sales pace.
Your next question comes from the line of Megan McGrath representing MKM Partners.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you regional questions but from the side of the input costs.
I'm curious -- you gave us that great detail on how you were able to offset price increases on a year-over-year basis nationally.
I'm curious if the input cost increase you're seeing are commensurate on a regional basis with the prices.
In other words California are you seeing input costs up about 10%?  As you raise prices are they behind you? And are you seeing them raise let's say in New Jersey where you're not able to raise costs? So are you seeing wide margins differential by region I guess? No we haven't seen -- basically there isn't a market.
None of them have had a problem having home price increases more than construction costs increase.
I think that's the root of your question.
Some maybe have accelerated more than others.
To give you an example in Northern California and some of the close-in areas is just particularly hot in terms of price increase ability there.
But we're not having any markets -- we're not seeing any markets where the cost pressures are more than our ability to raise prices.
Research Division</strong> And I guess how much faster -- I guess that's part of the question too.
I mean those -- the price increases you've seen in some of the California markets have been pretty impressive.
How much -- I guess in terms of lag how much are you finding -- how long does it take for your suppliers to kind of catch up with the price increases that you're putting in? I don't think suppliers say "Hey they raised prices.
I'm going to raise costs." Okay? I think they're testing the market constantly regardless of what homebuilders are doing with respect to prices to try to get cost increases in place and builders are testing the market with respect to prices constantly regardless of what the cost increases have been.
I mean it's a free market.
It's not like oh you got the ability to raise your home price so I'm going to raise my material price or my labor price.
It doesn't work in perfect parallel like that.
I will say in general there are many different categories of cost.
The branded materials -- appliances lighting fixtures kitchen cabinets a few other items plumbing fixtures those we typically negotiate national contracts and they have typically a 2- to 3-year price lock.
So on those items we're not seeing any price increases until that particular national contract comes due and they -- we stagger them so there's always some coming due but they have a longer hold.
There are other materials like lumber or concrete that are commodity materials and unfortunately we typically don't get more than a couple of months' lock on those and we're subject to the ebbs and flows of the pricing and we feel that real time.
And then somewhere in between is labor.
Typically we lock in labor for either the life of a particular community -- so the carpenter will give us a price for Galloping Hills and Juniper Plum whatever the name of it is for that community unless it is particularly long community but they have been seen pricing pressures and in some cases they've had to pass on some pricing that would be beyond the contract just to be able to keep up with our stepped up production because of the sales.
So it's a mixed bag is the short answer with a little bit in all of the categories.
Research Division</strong> That's really helpful.
And just a quick smiling [ph] question on capitalized interest.
It's been coming down a lot obviously as a dollar amount and as a percentage of your comps and revenue what's the best way at this stage of the cycle to think about that line item? Is it as a continued percentage of revenues that maybe trending down or is it better to think of it as a dollar amount as we move forward? I think it's probably closer related to -- as revenues continue to grow it will come down.
I mean obviously it has to also do with the mix of how many legacy deliveries we're getting versus newly identified.
The newly identified properties have far less capitalized interest in it whereas some of the legacy communities have a dramatic amount of capitalized interest so that can influence us as well.
But overall I think as we continue to grow revenue you'll see that number coming down.
Your next question comes from the line of Nishu Sood the Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask a question about homeowners and what options they're selecting.
I wanted to -- I was wondering if I could get your thoughts stretching back some time in terms of the amount of customization that homeowners are choosing right now obviously there's has been a clearly established trend in the market.
The move-up segment has been the hot segment of the market.
So what level of options are people choosing now compared to say the bottom of the market and at the peak of the market let's say back in 2005.
Nish I'd say the more of the -- first of all it has bounced back and they are getting a little -- we're seeing a little more dollars on the option side.
And we've had a slight tilt to more move-up product because the entry level has just had a little more challenge getting qualified for the -- because of the mortgage discussions we had earlier.
But more than being really aggressive on the options I think we're just trending to see -- we're seeing trends of the buyers getting the larger homes.
So we offer 5 models there whereas in the past they might have tended in the middle of the product lineup we're just seeing more and more instances where they're going to the top of the lineup in terms of size.
We generally price to have a pretty even gross margin in each of the different home types so we're somewhat indifferent to which way they go although in absolute dollars obviously it's a little more beneficial if they go to the large end.
But I'd say that is more of the trend than a big increase in the options -- and by the way some of our divisions do a little bit of custom options but more of our -- most of our options are predetermined options as opposed to custom options.
We give them alternatives more of it in finishes but in some markets we offer structural options: a sunroom a morning room a bumped out family room et cetera.
But again it's been more in just absolute size of base models than options.
Research Division</strong> It sounds like the percentage of sales price that is options or upgrades clearly it sounds like it'd be far below what it was in 2005 when every option was pretty much taken.
But how would it compare to say a normalized market? I don't know when you would pick 2000 or 2002? Nish it's just not something I'm tracking.
It's is interesting because we actually shift around quite a bit what is included as a standard in a given location and on long life communities it can shift mid-community.
If all of a sudden a competitor offers granite countertops and paneled cabinets as a standard we may no longer offer that as an option and we may include it standard.
So what you'd see is our option upgrades look like they came down but in fact they're getting the same finish.
We're just including it in the base price.
So because there is a lot of movement in that area it's not something we focus on.
We just look at the overall bottom line gross margin and particularly the effect on IRR.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And if I could ask about land options.
You folks I think 9 000 out of your 24 000 lots you've taken under control since 2009 have been optioned.
A very strong number probably higher than peers.
It kind of runs against the investor sense out there that the land market land developers and land sellers are basically in much more difficult straits and they were doing the boom and so options would therefore be less available.
So what has enabled your success on the optioning side and more specifically what sort of options are you using here thinking about developer options versus land bank versus JV options et cetera? Well first of all I think we're using 3 primarily different types of options.
The one category is finished lot options that typically come from a developer sometimes from a bank that's inherited finished lots.
That is certainly one of the types of options.
The other type this is very different it's an option with a landowner where we have to take it through the entitlements.
That occurs more often in the Northeast sometimes in the DC market sometimes in the Florida market where it's an option.
It could be for 1 year it could be for 2 years or 3 years even in New Jersey and Pennsylvania where we have to take it through the entitlement process and it's an option until the entitlements are achieved or not achieved.
And that we have still been able to achieve because the land is unsellable without the entitlements and we add value to the sellers to do that.
The third category is land banking where the property is purchased in bulk and we match up a land banker as we've done from time to time and option backlogs.
So we've been flexible and utilized all 3 types of options if we can.
Our ideal scenario is that 100% of everything is acquired or controlled through options and we buy it on a just-in-time basis but that's difficult to achieve in all markets at all times.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Barron representing Housing Research Center.
LLC</strong> I wanted to ask you given your highlight of the California improvement in prices and given how significant of a mothball position you guys have there is the thought process that you're going to eventually unmothball this? Or is there a chance that you could actually sell some of this land because I'm assuming it's worth more than your book value at this point? It is something we look at regularly.
The time period just keep in mind that we just shared with you is just over the last 13 weeks the last 3 months.
So a lot of the rapid price increase has been in the somewhat recent period.
We're also looking at our portfolio of mothballed lots and in a couple of the cases in Northern California specifically we decided that we can maximize our profits by actually redesigning the site plan in some cases going to lower density than what we had planned to improve our returns and so that will take a little bit of time.
During the real heyday everybody tended to increase the density dramatically but we're seeing some better returns and slightly lower densities so that could take a little time.
All in all I'd say that the unmothballed component is going to be icing on our plans.
We're moving forward and focusing on land acquisitions as if the land that we have in mothball is not becoming unmothballed and that'll add just a little bit of additional juice later in the recovery.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And Larry I wanted to I guess focus a little bit more on your operating leverage potential going forward here.
You guys put a presentation in February that showed you could probably maintain the SG&amp;A run rate and it comes out to about $195 million for the year.
I guess if I look at this quarter's number I guess you could still get to that number.
Is that something that you guys are sort of targeting? And...
I mean we kind of said that in the script is that we expect to hold SG&amp;A relatively stable in terms of dollar amounts.
So I think that's a fair assumption.
I mean it may change a tiny bit but we think we can continue to run the company without a material increase in SG&amp;A.
LLC</strong> Yes.
Because I -- I mean I was a little confused because the revenues dropped significantly obviously due to seasonality sequentially but the dollars in SG&amp;A didn't.
So I'm assuming that going -- once the revenues start picking up in the back half of the year maybe the same will hold true.
I'm not sure what you mean by the same will hold true but SG&amp;A is primarily fixed.
So regardless of what revenues are we think that dollar expense is going to be relatively fixed.
LLC</strong> Okay.
I thought most -- I thought the SG&amp;A roughly 1/2 of it or some portion of it was fixed and the other portion was variable with commissions or what have you with volume? Commissions are in our gross margin.
Part of it is I mean I don't have the exact percentage but obviously part of the SG&amp;A is the G&amp;A.
It's our office rent salaries et cetera and that is relatively fixed.
The only selling part that's really more variable is advertising dollars or the biggest component is more advertising dollars.
Which does change from quarter-to-quarter but it does not move the needle that much.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Kim representing CRT Capital Group.
Research Division</strong> Yes I appreciate the slide on Northern California.
I was just wondering if you could maybe describe the geographic breakdown of your 4 800 mothballed lots in the west region.
How much is tied to Northern California versus Southern California? And what percent of your mothballed assets in Northern California are represented by the submarkets on Slide 17? We're just not going to get into breaking out segment data more granularly.
It's just a bad precedent to get into but suffice it to say that there is a fair amount of that 4 800 that is in fact in Northern California at little more inland than the area where you see the 8 communities that we had the significant price increases on.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And my second question how should we think about the remaining development spend associated with your mothballed assets and I guess also more broadly speaking the split between development spend versus new land acquisitions over the next couple of years? Development spend versus new acquisitions.
Let me start with the mothballed lots.
I think it's safe to say that a lot of the remaining mothballed lots need substantial amount of land development in order for us to build homes on it so there would be additional dollars we'd have to invest in streets and underground utilities et cetera to get it ready.
With respect to your second question which I think is development spend versus land spend maybe in the future.
I mean if we can find finished lots that's our first preference.
Those are harder and harder to come by.
So even over the past several years we've been buying raw land and doing the development ourselves.
The only thing that kind of changes obviously we underwrite to an IRR so the additional time that's necessary to actually do the development work call it 4 to 6 months causes us to pay less for the land than if the land was already developed.
But we're comfortable and have the expertise in virtually all of our markets to perform the land development work and it just delays our ability to open a community by the length of time it takes to do the development work call it 4 to 6 months.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And there's no magnitude of number that you'd be able to provide on the development spend for the mothballed assets? I mean -- no we're not in a position to do that.
I would just say the vast majority of the lots in mothballed still takes some amount of development dollars in order to get it prepared to build houses on.
You have a follow-up question from the line of Alex Barrón representing Housing Research Center.
LLC</strong> Larry I wanted to ask you about the portion of the gross margin you pointed out the indirect cost as  being the reason for the sequential drop.
Why do you think that doesn't show up as much in previous years as this year? It does.
If you go back and look at gross margin trends the first quarter has often been lower than the other quarters for exactly that reason.
And certainly the indirect overheads would have the same or similar impact.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Hovnanian for closing remarks.
Great.
Well thank you very much.
As we've mentioned we are very pleased with the momentum of the market and we look forward to giving continued positive progress throughout the remainder of the year.
Thank you.
This concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you all for participating and have a nice day.
All parties may now disconnect.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for Hovnanian Enterprises Fiscal 2013 Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
An archive of the webcast will be available after the completion of the call and run for 12 months.
This conference is being recorded and rebroadcast .[Operator Instructions] The company will also be webcasting a slide presentation along with the opening comments from management.
These slides are available on the Investor page of the company's website at www.khov.com.
Those listeners who would like to follow along should log on to the website at this time.
Before we begin I would like to turn the call over to Jeff O'Keefe Vice President of Investor Relations.
Jeff please go ahead sir.
Okay thank you.
Before we get started I would like to read through our forward-looking statements quickly.
All statements made on this conference call that are not historical facts should be considered as forward-looking statements.
Such statements involve known and unknown risks uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results performance or achievements of the company to be materially different from any future results performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements.
Although we believe that our plans intentions and expectations reflected in or suggested by such forward-looking statements are reasonable we can give no assurance that such plans intentions or expectations will be achieved.
Such risks uncertainties and other factors include but are not limited to changes in general and local economic and industry and business conditions and impacts of the sustained homebuilding downturn; adverse weather and other environmental conditions and natural disasters; changes in market conditions and seasonality of the company's business; changes in home prices and sales activity in the markets where the company builds homes; government regulation including regulations concerning development of land the homebuilding sales and customer financing processes; tax laws and the environment; fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of mortgage financing; shortages in and price fluctuations of raw materials and labor; the availability and cost of suitable land and improved lots; levels of competition; availability of financing to the company; utility shortages and outages or rate fluctuations; levels of indebtedness and restrictions on the company's operations and activities imposed by the agreements governing the company's outstanding indebtedness; the company's sources of liquidity; changes in credit ratings; availability of net operating loss carryforwards; operation through joint ventures with third parties; product liability litigation; warranty claims and claims by mortgage investors; successful identification and integration of acquisitions; significant influence of the company's controlling stockholders; changes in tax laws affecting the aftertax cost of owning a home; geopolitical risks; terrorist acts and other acts of war; and other factors described in detail on the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 31 2012.
Except as otherwise required by applicable securities laws we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events changed circumstances or any other reason.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ara Hovnanian our Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer.
Thanks Jeff.
And thank you all for participating in this morning's call to review the results of our second quarter ended April 2013.
Joining me on the call today are Larry Sorsby our Executive Vice President and CFO; Brad O'Connor Vice President Chief Accounting Officer and Corporate Controller; David Valiaveedan Vice President of Finance and Treasurer; and Jeff O'Keefe Vice President of Investor Relations.
Let me start on Slide 3.
We see in the top left-hand portion of that slide that our total revenues continue to increase year-over-year due to increased volumes higher selling prices for our homes and mix.
Here we show that the second quarter of 2011 in gray the second quarter of 2012 in yellow and the second quarter of 2013 in blue.
Total revenues have increased 66% over the 2 years shown.
Moving across the top our gross margin has also continued to show year-over-year improvements.
The 150 basis point year-over-year improvement in gross margin this quarter also resulted from our change in community mix and home price increases across many of our communities.
Over the 2-year period shown our gross margin has increased 410 basis points for the quarter.
There are 3 general scenarios that are playing out across the country with respect to home price increases and construction cost increases the topic that's on everyone's minds.
These increases have varied from market to market with the hottest markets seeing the biggest increases in both home prices and construction costs.
In the majority of the situations we have been able to raise our home prices more than the construction costs have increased thereby increasing gross margin.
Southern and Northern California as well as Phoenix certainly have many communities that fall into that category.
In other markets we've been able to raise prices -- home prices equal to construction cost increases.
Houston and Dallas are examples of that.
And finally in some markets the construction cost increases have actually risen ahead of our community home price increases.
This is in a minority of the markets but Minneapolis comes to mind in this category.
Fortunately home prices are gaining momentum here as well.
In the aggregate our home price increases have more than offset any increases in construction costs that we have seen to date helping contribute to our gross margin increase.
In the bottom left-hand quadrant you can see that as our total revenues increased both total SG&amp;A as a percentage of total revenues and total interest as a percentage of total revenues declined each year from the prior year.
Over this 2-year period we saw SG&amp;A and interest percentage decrease 810 and 720 basis points respectively.
All of these positive trends led to approximately $1 million of pretax profit before land impairments and gains on extinguishment of debt during the second quarter of '13.
And that's compared to a $21 million loss in the second quarter of last year and a $55 million loss in the second quarter of 2011.
For the second quarter of 2013 we reported a net income of $1.3 million.
While this is a very small number it's definitely a positive step in the right direction.
Given our improving sales pace and backlog position we expect revenues to continue to increase and fixed costs as a percentage of revenues to continue to decline throughout the remainder of 2013.
Assuming that market conditions remain stable and excluding any expenses if we decide to retire any of our debt early we are reiterating our guidance that we will be profitable for all of fiscal '13 with our fourth quarter producing the strongest results.
Turning to Slide 4.
We show that there is still a lot of positive momentum in the market today with respect to our sales office activity.
New order trends continue to exhibit strength during the second quarter of 2013 with a 22% year-over-year increase in the dollar value of net contracts including unconsolidated joint ventures.
Since the second quarter of 2011 our net contract dollars have more than doubled.
Despite a 5% year-over-year drop in active-selling communities our net contracts increased 10% on a unit basis in the second quarter of 2013 compared to the second quarter of 2012.
This resulted in a 16% year-over-year increase in net contracts per community.
The dollar value of our backlog increased year-over-year by 34% during the second quarter to just over $1 billion.
On Slide 5 you can see a more granular view of our recent sales trends.
Here we show the dollar amount of net contracts for each fiscal 2013 month in blue the same month 1-year ago in yellow and the same month 2 years ago in gray.
Our sales volume on a dollar basis continues to grow.
If you look at net contracts per actively selling community as we do on Slide 6 you can see the improvements in each and every month here as well.
This slide shows the monthly net contracts per community for the most recent 12-month period in blue and the same month 1-year before in yellow.
We sold more homes per community in each of the prior 12 months than we did for the same month a year ago.
The trend has improved sequentially throughout the spring selling season.
The sales pace in February has been the best since September of 2007 when we had our Deal of the Century promotion.
We then beat this in March with 3.4 sales per month per community and then topped that with 3.6 sales per month per community in April.
Now keep in mind these are all our peak months of the spring selling season.
Following a normal seasonal pattern May of 2013 net contracts fell off compared to April of '13 but were better than a year ago May of '12.
Slide 7 shows the annual net contracts per community for the last 16 years.
The seasonally adjusted number for 2013 shown in blue is a significant improvement at 32.8 net contracts per community compared to last year's pace of 28.1.
There's still a substantial amount of upside opportunity before we return to more normalized pace levels in the mid-40s per community that you see on the left-hand side of the slide.
And certainly a lot of room before we get to the peak of last decade.
On Slide 9 we show consolidated newly identified communities in yellow and consolidated legacy communities in blue -- excuse me I forgot to point out that on Slide 8 that we have the fourth highest net contracts per community in the industry for the prior 12 months when you compare us to our peers.
On Slide 9 we show consolidated newly identified communities in yellow consolidated legacy communities in blue.
We finished the April '13 quarter with 177 wholly owned actively selling communities.
Since the end of fiscal '12 our wholly owned community count has increased modestly each quarter.
As sales absorption rates per community increase we continue to sell through communities faster than we had anticipated which makes growing our community count even more challenging.
During the first 6 months of fiscal '13 we have opened 51 new communities and closed out of 46 communities.
So a lot of activities for a net increase of 5 communities.
While we continue to work hard to achieve both a faster selling pace per community and an increasing community count our real focus is on growing revenues so that we can further leverage our fixed operating costs.
Even though our wholly owned community count was flat compared to the community count at the end of the second quarter last year we have seen our revenues increase by 24% and our SG&amp;A and interest expense as a percentage of revenues decline by 170 basis points and 350 basis points respectively.
We controlled 2 700 additional lots during the second quarter and spent $118 million on land and land development in the second quarter of fiscal '13.
Similar to last quarter we ended the second quarter with cash above the high end of our cash target range.
We definitely have the liquidity to increase our land acquisition pace even further going forward.
We plan to grow deliveries in fiscal 2014.
And our land acquisition teams continue to pursue attractive land parcels in all of our markets.
So far we have secured 92% of the lots needed to meet our internal fiscal 2014 delivery expectations.
That puts us in a very solid position at this point in the year.
Slide 10 shows our quarterly deliveries in blue and net additions of our newly acquired land in yellow for each of the past 4 quarters.
Over this time period our net additions were in excess of our home deliveries.
We have grown our total lots controlled position by about 1 200 lots over this period of time.
The land market certainly remains competitive in all of our markets.
While at this point in the recovery cycle we would've liked to have controlled even more land we were able to gain control of our fair share of land deals and have been steadily growing our land position.
Our land acquisition teams are very busy and our corporate land committee calendar to review and approve new land parcels is continually filling up.
When evaluating these land parcels we remain disciplined in our underwriting assumptions.
We are still able to find land that generates unlevered IRRs that meet or exceed our underwriting guidelines based on the current home prices and sales pace.
While we don't assume increases in home prices construction costs or absorption paces when underwriting land for a limited number of prime land sites in hot markets we occasionally will lower our 25% IRR to around 20%.
On Slide 11 we show the home building gross margin percentage each quarter since the second quarter of 2011.
We have seen a steady trend of increasing gross margins each quarter.
The lone exception is the first quarter of 2013.
On our last call we explained that the sequential drop in our gross margin for the fourth quarter of '12 and the first quarter of '13 was primarily due to our fixed indirect overheads and lower volume of deliveries in the first quarter.
During the second quarter of 2013 our gross margin increased 190 basis points when compared to the first quarter of 2013.
During the second quarter of '13 76% of our wholly owned deliveries were from newly identified land compared with only 39% in the second quarter of 2011.
Given the fact that 89% of our wholly owned open-for-sale communities are from newly identified land parcels we would expect our gross margins to continue to improve.
We are pleased to see that our gross margins increased to 18.9% for our second quarter.
And given the gross margins in our backlog we remain confident that our gross margins for all of fiscal '13 will surpass all of fiscal '12 gross margins of 17.8%.
We've made good progress on improving our gross margins over the past several years and expect that we will continue to see progress as we march toward returning to a normalized gross margins in the 20% to 21% range.
During the second quarter of 2013 there were $12.4 million of impairment reversals related to deliveries compared to $20.8 million in the second quarter of 2012.
Turning to Slide 12 we continue to leverage our total SG&amp;A expenses.
Here we see total SG&amp;A as a percentage of total revenues.
Once again 2011 is in gray each quarter of 2012 is in yellow and that first 2 quarters of '13 are in blue.
Below each of these bars we show the absolute dollar of our total SG&amp;A for each quarter.
As seen on this slide SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenues has declined each of the past 6 quarters on a year-over-year basis.
During the second quarter of fiscal 2013 our total SG&amp;A dollars increased slightly to $52 million compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2013.
However our ability to grow revenues without proportional increases in SG&amp;A continues to provide us with operating leverage.
Total SG&amp;A as a percentage of total revenues improved from 13.9% in fiscal '12 second quarter to 12.2% in our second quarter of fiscal '13.
Our plan is to hold the dollar amount of our SG&amp;A expenses relatively steady throughout the remainder of 2013.
As our revenues continue to grow throughout the year we would expect further improvements in our SG&amp;A ratio each quarter and favorable year-over-year comparisons.
On a historical note our normalized SG&amp;A ratio is approximately 10% of revenues.
Now I'll turn it over to Larry who will discuss our inventory liquidity and mortgage operations as well as a few other topics.
Thanks Ara.
We're very focused on controlling new land parcels.
On Slide 13 we show that since January 2009 we've controlled 26 200 lots in 450 communities.
At the end of the second quarter of 2013 there are still about 15 400 of these newly controlled lots remaining at attractive land values for future deliveries.
The right-hand side of this slide shows that total gross additions during the second quarter were 3 100 lots.
During the second quarter we walked away from about 400 newly identified lots.
In recent quarters these walk-aways have typically occurred during the initial due diligence period and our deposit has been refunded.
The net results for the second quarter was that our total lots purchased or controlled since January 2009 increased about 2 700 lots sequentially from the first quarter of 2013.
Turning now to Slide 14.
You'll see our owned and optioned land position broken out by our publicly reported segments.
Based on our trailing 12-month deliveries we own 3.1 years worth of land.
However if you exclude the roughly 6 800 mothballed lots we only have 1.8 years of land based on the delivery rate of the past 4 quarters.
At the end of the second quarter 81% of our optioned lots are newly identified lots.
Excluding mothballed lots 72% of our total lots are newly identified lots.
Our investment and land option deposits was $64 million at April 30 2013 with $62.3 million in cash deposits and the other $1.7 million of deposits being held by letters of credit.
Additionally we have another $6.3 million invested in predevelopment expenses.
Turning now to Slide 15.
We show our mothballed lots broken out by geographic segments.
In total we have about 6 800 mothballed lots within 52 communities that were mothballed as of April 30 2013.
The book value at the end of the second quarter for these remaining mothballed lots was $125 million net of an impairment balance of $455 million.
We are carrying these mothballed lots at 22% of the original value.
Since 2009 we've unmothballed approximately 3 400 lots within 61 communities.
As home prices continue to rise we expect to unmothball additional communities as we move forward.
Turning to Slide 16.
Last quarter we showed you our ability to raise prices in 8 of our communities in Northern California which is highlighted in blue on this slide.
We continue to raise prices in most of these communities during the second quarter.
Last quarter we showed that we had raised prices in Northern California as much as 11.3% in the 13-week period ended February 24 2013.
From that same starting point of December 2 now through May 26 as shown in yellow our home prices increased as much as 22% in one of these communities.
Every quarter we review each of our mothballed communities to see if they are ready to be put back into production.
Assuming market conditions remain strong as we look across the entire country there are approximately 1 000 lots in 6 communities that could move from mothballed to active over the next couple of quarters.
The combination of our 15 400 remaining newly identified lots and the 6 800 mothballed lots provides approximately 22 200 lots at very attractive land values for future deliveries.
Turning to Slide 17.
It shows another area where we have had tremendous pricing power.
Here we show what happened to prices in our 7 communities in Phoenix Arizona since the beginning of the fiscal year.
We've been able to raise prices between 4.8% and 15% over that period.
Both Phoenix and Northern California have been white hot markets lately but these data points give you an idea of how much our decision to raise prices is truly made on a community-by-community basis even within small geographic areas.
Even though we've been able to raise prices in 73% of our communities since the beginning of the fiscal year the price increases in Northern California and Phoenix are not indicative of what's going on in every market.
In places like New Jersey Minnesota Texas Chicago our ability to raise prices has been more modest.
Looking at all of our consolidated communities in aggregate including mothballed communities we have an inventory book value of just over $1 billion net of $656 million of impairments which we recorded on 95 of our communities.
Of the properties that had been impaired we're carrying them at 22% of their preimpaired value.
Another area of discussion for the quarter is related to our current deferred tax asset valuation allowance.
At the end of the second quarter the valuation allowance in the aggregate was $941.8 million.
Our valuation allowance is a very significant asset not currently reflected on our balance sheet and we've taken many steps to protect it.
We expect to be able to reverse this allowance after we generate consecutive years of solid profitability and continue to project solid profitability going forward.
When the reversal does occur we expect the remaining allowance to be added back to our shareholders' equity further strengthening our balance sheet.
As you are aware we are predicting a return to profitability for our full 2013 fiscal year.
If current market trends continue next year we are optimistic that we could reverse the vast majority of our valuation allowance in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014.
We ended the second quarter with our total shareholders' deficit of $479 million.
If you add back the total valuation allowance as we've done on Slide 18 then our shareholders' equity would be $463 million.
While we have no intention of issuing equity anytime soon we could issue approximately $100 million additional shares of Hovnanian common stock for cash without limiting our ability to utilize our net operating losses.
Let me reiterate that the tax asset valuation allowance is for GAAP purposes only.
For tax purposes our tax assets may be carried forward for 20 years from occurrence and we expect to utilize those tax loss carryforwards as we generate profits in the future.
We will not have to pay federal income taxes on $2.1 billion of future pretax profits.
Now let me update you briefly on our mortgage operations.
Turning to Slide 19.
You can see that the credit quality of our mortgage customers continues to improve with average FICO scores of 747.
For the second quarter of fiscal 2013 our mortgage company captured 72% of our noncash home-buying customers.
Turning to Slide 20 we show a breakout of all the various loan types originated by our mortgage operations for the second quarter of fiscal 2013 compared to all of fiscal 2012.
22.1% of originations were for FHA loans during our fiscal 2013 second quarter compared to 27.8% we saw during all of fiscal 2012 and the 34.1% we saw during fiscal 2011.
Our use of FHA mortgages clearly has been declining.
At the same time we saw our conforming conventional originations increase to 62.9% during the second quarter of 2013 compared to 53.7% for all of fiscal 2012 and 47.1% during fiscal 2011.
Regarding the make whole and repurchase request we've received from various banks we continue to believe that the vast majority of the requests that we received are unjustified.
On Slide 21 you'll see our payments for repurchases of make whole requests from fiscal 2008 through the first half of fiscal 2013.
During the first half of 2013 our repayments were $650 000 on 18 loans.
13 of those 18 loans during the first half 2013 were for second-lien repurchases which have dramatically lowered dollar amounts.
During the first half of 2013 we received 24 repurchase inquiries which was slightly lower than the 17 average repurchase inquiries per quarter in fiscal 2012.
We believe that any losses resulting from repurchase and make whole requests have been adequately reserved for in the previous periods.
At the end of the second quarter our reserve for loan repurchase and make whole requests was $9.8 million which we believe is adequate for our exposure.
To date mortgage repurchases have not been a significant problem but we will continue to monitor this issue closely.
Now turning to our debt maturity ladder which can be found on Slide 22.
We have only $122 million of debt maturing before 2016 and we remain quite confident that we can deal with the unsecured notes maturing between 2014 and 2017 either through refinancing them or paying them off as they come due.
Since the end of fiscal 2008 we've reduced our debt by more than $975 million.
As you can see on Slide 23 after spending $118 million on land and land development we ended the second quarter of fiscal 2013 with approximately $263 million in home-building cash including cash used to collateralize letters of credit.
We feel good about our current liquidity position.
We have very little debt maturing over the next couple of years and our cash position at the quarter end exceeded our target range of $170 million to $245 million.
Our land acquisition teams remain very busy and continue to look for new land parcels that meet our underwriting criteria.
With the cash we have on hand the cash we generate through the delivery of homes each quarter our ability to place nonrecourse loans on recently acquired land parcels and our land banking arrangements with GSO we have a significant amount of liquidity to grow our land position further.
We are working hard to make sure that the amount of our land and land development investment increases over the next couple of quarters.
Over the past couple of years we've been explaining to investors that we believe we would be able to increase our inventory turnover rate which will allow us to grow the company even if we did not increase our capital position.
On Slide 24 you can clearly see the progress we've made on this front during the past year.
First bar shows our inventory turnover rate at 2.1x in fiscal 2002 before the boom and the bust of the industry.
The next 2 bars indicate our turnover rates in fiscal 2011 and 2012.
We increased our inventory turnover rate from 1.1x in fiscal 2011 to 1.4x during fiscal 2012.
Looking to the right-hand side of the slide you'll see that on a trailing 12-month basis ended April 2013 our turnover rate increased further to 1.6x.
We believe our historical turnover rates will be achievable again in the future.
We remain confident in our ability to grow the company.
And now I'll turn it back over to Ara for some closing comments.
Thank you Larry.
If -- I'd like to close by giving a few comments on the overall housing cycle.
Frankly it amazes me that I'm already hearing some concerns that we're in a new bubble or that the market will crash once mortgage rates move at all.
As a homebuilder that's recently been through the mother of all cycles we are constantly reviewing housing data to keep a perspective on the housing market and if you'll bear with me for a moment I'd like to share some of the key metrics with you.
I'd like to start with Slide 25 which shows total housing starts by year from World War II to the present.
I've shown this slide although -- on prior calls although this is updated a little bit more.
There's a lot of data on this slide but I'll focus on decade average starts which are represented by the horizontal green lines.
You see them toward the top of the bars spanning 10 years at a time.
Five of the last 6 decades since World War II have had average annual housing starts between 1.4 million and 1.5 million.
The exception was the decade of the '70s which had average starts about 1.75 million per year.
In the decade of the 2000s in spite of the overproduction mid-decade we also averaged just over 1.4 million starts per year thanks to the significant reduction in housing starts toward the end of the decade.
Prior to this downturn annual housing starts had only gotten as low as 1 million starts per year in the worst downturns.
I've circled some of those recent troughs on the chart.
It's happened 3x in recent history once in the '70s '80s and '90s.
Twice it stayed that low for 1 year once for 2 years.
It quickly went up to 1.4 million starts plus after the trough.
In this cycle we have recently seen 3 years at 500 000 to 600 000 starts half the previous lows and a fourth year at 780 000 starts still well below the 1 million of the previous lows much lower annual production for a much longer period of time than we've ever seen since World War II.
While the housing market is clearly recovering we have not yet reached the level of the previous lows of 1 million starts.
All of the excess production of mid-decade has now been wiped out by the deficit production plus a little.
In fact on Slide 26 we show the excess starts from the last decade and stack them -- excess above the average stack them on top of the deficit reduction of the last 5 years and what you see is that the -- we are still far below the average production for the decade.
As has often happened the market has overcorrected and on -- in this case on the downside.
In addition like the '70s most demographers are projecting higher housing needs this particular decade based on population and household growth.
The Harvard Joint Center for Housing Studies Moody's and others are projecting housing starts between 1.6 million and 1.9 million new home starts per year for the entire decade.
This exacerbates the current underproduction issues.
Certainly from the pure production perspective we are not in a new housing bubble.
In fact this data would suggest we are early in the recovery cycle.
Incidentally in the bottom of this chart we show U.S.
population by decade since World War II and that has obviously been growing and we're in a much larger population today than at any of these periods in the past.
Slide 27 looks at the housing cycle with respect to home prices.
You can clearly see the pricing bubble mid-decade and the subsequent price deterioration.
You can also see that prices have recently gradually begun to trend up but even with the recent home price increases we're only back to prices of 10 years ago.
Further the compounded annual growth rate going all the way back to 2000 averages -- with all the ups and downs by the way of the cycle I just pointed out averaged about a 3.2% from that period to today.
That seems like a reasonable level for the current time.
Slide 28 finally shows another key metric the affordability index.
The affordability index compares medium family incomes to the income necessary to qualify to purchase a median-priced home.
The chart measures the national average which is a key barometer although obviously every specific market is somewhat different.
It is clear that the affordability index has never been higher since it began back in 1975.
The current index of 191.7 means that the median family has 191.7% of the income necessary to buy the median-priced home.
Prior to this recent cycle the best affordability index was about 138.
You might say yes but what happens if rates go up or prices go up? Well if you look at the small sub-chart on the upper left-hand side of this slide you can see how the index is affected by rates and home prices.
If mortgage rates and by the way we start on the top line of that with the current index 191.7.
If mortgage rates were to increase by 275 basis points or home prices were to increase another 35% the affordability index would still be higher than at any other period since 1975 other than this current down cycle.
In fact you could combine 138 basis point increase in rates and an additional 18% increase in home prices and the index would still be the highest it's been since the mid-70s.
We've had strong housing markets with indexes far lower than the above scenarios.
In the mid-'80s this country had far greater housing production with mortgage rates in the low teens with far lower incomes and a smaller population.
In the end housing demand is driven by household formations.
Today households can afford a larger home than they ever dreamt thanks to rates and prices.
Eventually they will have to settle for smaller homes or attached homes as they have in the past but the population is continuing to grow and the need for shelter will grow with it.
There will undoubtedly be a point where the affordability index or home prices or mortgage rates or housing starts get to dangerous levels but the key metrics that we follow suggest that we are early in this housing recovery and there's room for movement in any of these metrics before the red lights should be flashing.
We're pleased with our results early in this housing recovery and look forward to continued improving results as this country gets back to a more normalized housing market.
That concludes our formal remarks and we'll be happy to open it up for questions and answers.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Alan Ratner from Zelman &amp; Associates.
LLC</strong> Thanks for all the commentary on the market and kind of where you guys see things playing out.
That was very helpful and I guess just to expand on that given the focus on rates today and the increases that we've seen over the past few weeks I was hoping you might be willing to provide a little bit more commentary on your May order results which it looks like if you look at it sequentially versus April it was down about 20% or so which is a bit more than you typically see May versus April and obviously the year-over-year increases are contracting as well partly due to tougher comps.
But was just hoping you can maybe tie that into what we are seeing in rates right now and maybe what you're seeing out of buyers in response to those higher mortgage rates? Well there are a variety of factors moving at the same time.
I'd say what you might see in terms of less than robust growth compared to the prior quarters but still growth over prior months.
Maybe more affected by the fact that we have been as our peers have been more aggressively moving home prices.
It's difficult to replenish the land supply and we've been run -- burning through our communities faster than we'd like.
So we've had the luxury of not being as focused on sales pace and focusing more on price and margin and we've been more aggressive than we have in the past.
I think many of our competitors have been more aggressive than they have in the past as well.
So I think that may be driving it more than rates at this stage.
LLC</strong> So following on to that then if I hear that correctly is it possible in some markets you might be kind of hitting that resistance point on price maybe where things have -- you gave the anecdotes in Northern Cal and Phoenix I'm not sure what your order trends look like there specifically but is it something now that order growth is kind of flat lining here that maybe you found that resistance point and you would expect to see some more modest price increases or maybe flatlining? I would not say we're hitting resistance points but I would say obviously as we've raised prices more aggressively the velocity has slowed and the velocity growth has slowed but we're far from hitting resistance points and we still have solid sales in all locations.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question I had was on -- just following on the May orders if and I apologize if this was in a slide I'm dialing in from outside of the office but just to give us a sense in terms of the community count I believe for 2Q it was down I believe you said 5% year-over-year.
If that also -- if there was a greater decline average community counts in May and how you're thinking about community count for the rest of the year? I'm looking it up Mike just give us a second.
We'll come back to you if you have another one.
Hold on I think we've got it.
What is it? 189 in May.
No that's the total give me how many JVs what was the consolidates? Research Division</strong> Consolidated was 176.
It was down 1 from April Mike.
176 versus 177 wholly-owned.
And Mike you may not have it again you might not have had the slides in front of you but sales per community were at 2.8 in May of '13 and that compared to 2.6 last year.
So we're still up a little bit maybe up slightly less than the prior few quarters.
Research Division</strong> Before I hit my second question just the thoughts on community count for the rest of the year? Yes a difficult number to predict.
I sound like a broken record but we're working hard to have it grow and it's grown modestly so far this year and we would hope to see continued modest growth.
Research Division</strong> Great and then also on your comments about the mothballed communities and lot position that you have 1 000 lots that you can move from mothball to active I believe you said correct me if I'm wrong over the last next 12 months.
.
.
The next I think he said the couple of quarters.
Research Division</strong> The next couple of quarters.
Is that part of the 92% of controlled lots that you cited in fiscal '14? No it is not.
Your next question comes from the line of Nishu Sood from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you a question about the products mix the first time buyer versus the move-up buyer.
Now you folks as well as other builders have seen a tailwind in terms of your average selling price from being able to sell more move-up products.
Maybe that's a function of the -- the high affordability IRR that you were talking about and maybe the first time buyers are still suffering from hangover from the homebuyer tax rate but eventually in the recovery the first-time buyer has to come back.
So my question is how do you see that playing out in terms of your -- the trends in your revenues your ASP your margins.
Is it enough? Does it become a headwind to the ASP and the revenue growth? How significant do you foresee that in the next couple of years? Well first of all our margins are actually not dramatically different for the first time home buying product or the move-down product or the active adult product.
They're are somewhat similar.
However in absolute price obviously there's a difference in absolute dollars per home.
First time home-buying product would obviously be lower.
When I referred to margins earlier I meant percentages in margins.
So that part might be a negative.
On the other hand that would clearly be a little bit of an afterburner effect that would help the market in a time when it might normally want to start leveling off for a variety of reasons.
We've had a very good recovery without this part of the food chain really in the battle so to speak and I think having first-time homebuyers join in as well would really help the overall market increase demand and when first-time homebuyers buy their first home in some cases from somebody that owns a home that wants to move up it enables them to move up.
So while there may be a little downward pressure on average price in average dollar profit per home not on margin I think that would be offset by the positive effects of the first-time homebuyers being able to really get some financing and get back into the market in a normal way.
Research Division</strong> And the second question I wanted to also ask about the mothballed lots.
You guys give terrific details on that so do appreciate that.
I wanted to focus in on the 4 800 lots that are in the West the California region.
Now I think by most folks' reckoning California Northern California Southern California #1 and #2 markets in the country probably and certainty your example that you showed on pricing support that.
So that's obviously a huge positive for these 4 800 lots that you have mothballed.
I wanted to ask how much progress has been made in kind of getting those back to the breakeven or above water point.
How much further do we need to see before that significant chunk of the mothballed lots begins to approach feasibility again? I think it really depends community by community.
There's not one answer for every community that represents that 4 800 mothballed lots in California but it is clearly accurate to state that because of those rapid price increases that we're seeing in -- throughout the state of California that a number of those mothballed communities in California are becoming ripe to be unmothballed and it's not so much driven by margin to make our decision to unmothball those communities.
I mean when we wrote those communities down in most instances the way GAAP worked we wrote them down to roughly 1/2 a normalized margin and we've seen price increases.
We get the margin very close to normalized margins but all of that's a factor that we look at -- the primary thing that we look at is how much cash are we going to recover from the lots that are invested and where those parcels are located and we just know that as the market just continues along the trend line we certainly don't have to have the same kind of price increases to see quite a number of our California mothballed lots come back into production.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Oppenheim from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you can talk a little bit more about some of the West.
I think it's helpful again in terms of some of the pricing in your comments in terms of -- trying to be aggressive on that.
I guess one thing that we've also seen is an effort really in terms of meter out the pace of sales.
I guess just trying to think I think a lot of the questions have been trying to get a better sense in terms of why some of the West -- orders in the West were just a little bit weaker than some of the other regions given the strength in pricing there.
How -- what portion of the communities would you say you're sort of metering out the orders right now versus the slow orders being a function of the consumer slowing down based on price.
Well orders in the West have been affected by a couple of factors.
Certainly we've been particularly aggressive in pricing but part of the reason we've been aggressive in pricing is that we've been burning through the communities there and haven't had the new ones open up yet so it's been just a little more challenging from the number of storefronts and I think that has affected it.
The West in fact has been the most rapidly improving and appreciating market.
Though -- that I wouldn't misread those numbers.
I think just to echo Ara's point the community count in California dropped by 6 on a year-over-year basis.
So I think the decline in contracts you're seeing is primarily driven by the drop in community count.
Your next question comes from the line of Joel Locker from FBN Securities.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just was curious on the corporate expenses.
It moved up the last quarter I guess sequentially $1.2 million where do you see that going forward and was there any one-time issues in that in the second quarter? I think -- nothing really comes to mind.
I don't think there's any one-time issues.
It's tweaked up very modestly.
It fluctuates a little bit from quarter-to-quarter just because of the timing of certain issues.
So I wouldn't read too much into it.
I think it's going to be relatively fixed for the foreseeable future.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Close to the -- so closer to the $14 million range versus the I guess $11 million or $12 million previous? I think you just got to look at what our current run rate has been and draw your own conclusions.
I'm not going to get granular than that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right and on the May consolidated orders what were they excluding JVs for 2013 and 2012? Repeat that again please? Inc.
Research Division</strong> The May consolidated orders for 2013 2012? Well the absolute number? Excluding joint ventures.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Excluding JVs yes.
It was -- in May of 2013 it was 493 and the prior year that was 462.
Your next question comes from the line of David Goldberg from UBS.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Sue on for David today.
Can you talk a little bit about the material prices and what you're seeing there.
We've seen lumber coming down recently.
How long do you think it is before we start to see that in your results and more generally speaking as material companies as the producers there start to bring more capacity online do you think that we could actually move from seeing some price inflation there to maybe seeing things normalize or perhaps come down a little bit especially maybe as we move into 2014 or a little further out? That's a good question I was frankly surprised by lumber prices coming down.
Well at first I wasn't surprised by the previous period where they've been going up quite significantly over the last year.
I was surprised that they recently came back off their highs over the last 6 to 8 weeks.
As I understand it in lumber which is the single most significant material cost in a house it was really because other mothballed mills have been coming back online again and increasing capacity in anticipation of increasing demand and some had purchased lumber in greater quantities as prices were going up to protect their costs and basically that pulled in demand from futures.
So that combination of factors as I understand it helped lumber prices fall off.
Lumber prices had been hurting our margins in the past it clearly as the single most cost important material and now that that's going down that will definitely help and that will -- should play out into the next few quarters but there are a lot of other moving parts copper as you might have seen well that's not a really significant part has been moving up so different materials are going up and down at different times.
Typically we lock lumber prices up kind of 90 days into the future so there's a little lag effect before we'll see the benefit flow through our P&amp;L of declining prices and as Ara says there's are a lot of moving parts that may obfuscate what the real impact of lumber is.
Lumber represents 14% 15% of the total construction cost of a home.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then just a follow-up question in terms of the land market we have heard that there are some more nontraditional kind of lending sources that are coming together to fund private builders again.
Are you seeing any of this out there and is that leading to any greater competition in terms of the land market? Not exactly sure what you mean by nontraditional lenders.
I mean we've been using GSO a wholly-owned subsidiary of Blackstone on land banking I don't know if that's what you mean or whether you just mean people that are non-banks that are not lending just for land but actually for the entire project including the vertical construction.
We are seeing different kinds of lenders that are out there and we're occasionally seeing traditional banks making lower loan-to-value loans on projects as well.
So we're -- the general trend I think is clearly that financial institutions of one kind or another are sticking their foot back in the water but it's still hard to find traditional banks that are doing it.
So higher cost lenders financial institutions hedge funds whatever you want to describe it that are tiptoeing back in perhaps.
Right.
And overall I wouldn't say that we've seen a huge impact on that with our private homebuilders competing.
I'd still say -- while that is happening and I'm sure it will gradually increase I'd say in most cases in most markets the primary competition really still remains from our fellow peers among the publics.
And your next question comes from the line of Alex Barrón from Housing Research Center.
LLC</strong> I was just -- wanting to understand if your incentives have changed much as these interest rates have moved in the month of May and I guess just generally how you guys think about adjusting your approach to sales if some rates don't come back down to 3.5?%.
Overall our net pricing has been going up.
We do that in a variety of ways we increase base prices we increase lot premiums or the calls for options we reduced concessions or we reduce incentives.
Generally speaking I would say incentives have absolutely continued to come down even with the little blip up that we have seen in mortgage rates.
We have continued to see reductions in incentives.
I really don't anticipate that changing dramatically at this point.
LLC</strong> What about on the cost of land are you seeing more competition for land in the last couple of months or are you seeing land prices start to taper off? I would say it's more or less the same competitors and we are all being a little more aggressive because we've been -- the sales pace has been greater and we've been selling through our communities more rapidly and perhaps we're all filling a little more confident that this recovery is here to stay and is gaining momentum.
So I would not say land prices are falling off.
I would say we are -- as you might expect in this point of the recovery we're seeing recovery in land purchases as well.
Yes Alex as home prices rise in the market or absorption paces increase in the market land is more valuable and that more valuable land is what's being reflected in what the builders that are -- the winning bidders are willing to pay.
LLC</strong> But you're not changing your underwriting too much? What we've said in the script and we'll reiterate it now is in certain very hot markets we might change our underwriting criteria from the then current home prices then current absorption pace and construction cost.
We will continue to use that but instead of having a 25% unlevered IRR hurdle rate we might lower it to around 20%.
Your next question comes from the line of Susan Berliner from JPMorgan.
This is actually Wade.
I just have a quick question in terms of looking at like the Southeast and West regions.
I see in the West obviously that the average price is up pretty substantially year-over-year but just that the number of actual contracts is down versus the Southeast region just was wondering if there was any kind of color there you might be able to provide if that's due to community growth or just a...
You might have missed a similar question and we pointed out that there has been a reduction in community count in the West and when you combine that with more aggressive prices part of which is because we're running it through -- burning through our communities it wasn't surprising to us that the overall sales are down.
Just last quick question with the land banking if there's any update you guys might be able to provide on -- expanding relationship with GSO again? We have a $250 million kind of agreement with GSO in 2 major tranches.
The first $125 million as we mentioned earlier probably in the last call or 2 is totally done.
The second $125 million tranche we're probably close to halfway through that and although we don't have any firm agreement with GSO to expand it beyond that $250 million they've indicated that if we have an interest in it that they have an interest in talking to us about it as well so we have a great relationship with them.
It's been mutually beneficial and nothing leads me to believe that if we wanted to go back to them that they would not be willing to increase it but at this point we've not approached it.
Ladies and gentlemen this will conclude our question-and-answer session for today's conference.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ara Hovnanian.
Great.
Well thank you very much.
We're pleased to report a profit after a long drought in that category but obviously as you heard the market really shows signs of continued improvement continued momentum and we'll look forward to reporting continued progress in our subsequent quarterly calls.
Thank you.
This concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you all for participating and have a nice day.
All parties may now disconnect.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for Hovnanian Enterprises 2013 Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
An archive of the webcast will be available after the completion of the call and run for 12 months.
This conference is being recorded for rebroadcast.
[Operator Instructions] Management will make some opening remarks about the third quarter results and then open up the line for questions.
The conference will also be webcasting a slide presentation along with the opening comments from management.
The slides are available on the Investors page of the company's website at www.khov.com.
Those listeners who would like to follow along should log onto the website at this time.
Before we begin I would like to turn the call over to Jeff O'Keefe Vice President Investor Relations.
Jeff please go ahead.
Thank you very much.
Before we get started I would like to quickly read through our forward-looking statements.
All statements in this conference call that are not historical facts should be considered as forward-looking statements.
Such statements involve known and unknown risks uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results performance or achievements of the company to be materially different from any future results performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements.
Although we believe that our plans intentions and expectations reflected in or suggested by such forward-looking statements are reasonable we can give no assurance that such plans intentions or expectations will be achieved.
Such risks uncertainties and other factors include but are not limited to changes in general and local economic industry and business conditions and impacts of the sustained homebuilding downturn; adverse weather and other environmental conditions and natural disasters; changes in market conditions and seasonality of the company's business; changes in home prices and sales activity in the markets where the company builds homes; government regulation including regulations concerning development of land the homebuilding sales and customer financing processes; tax laws and the environment; fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of mortgage financing; shortages in and price fluctuations of raw materials and labor; the availability and cost of suitable land and improved lots; levels of competition; availability of financing to the company; utility shortages and outages or rate fluctuations; levels of indebtedness and restrictions on the company's operations and activities imposed by the agreements governing the company's outstanding indebtedness; the company's sources of liquidity; changes in credit ratings; availability of net operating loss carryforwards; operations through joint ventures with third parties; product liability litigation; warranty claims and claims by mortgage investors; successful identification and integration of acquisitions; significant influence of the company's controlling stockholders; changes in tax laws affecting the after-tax cost of owning a home; geopolitical risks; terrorist acts and other acts of war; and other factors described in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 31 2012.
Except as otherwise required by applicable securities laws we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events changed circumstances or any other reason.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ara Hovnanian our Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer.
Go ahead Ara.
Thanks Jeff and thank you all for participating in this morning's call to review the results of our third quarter ended July of 2013.
Joining me today from the company are Larry Sorsby Executive Vice President and CFO; Brad O'Connor Vice President Chief Accounting Officer and Corporate Controller; David Valiaveedan Vice President of Finance and Treasurer; and Jeff O'Keefe Vice President of Investor Relations.
Let me start on Slide #3.
Our operating results continued to improve during the third quarter of fiscal '13.
We see in the top left-hand portion of this slide that our revenues increased sequentially each quarter in fiscal '13 with the first quarter shown in gray the second quarter shown in yellow and the third quarter shown in blue.
Below this in the bottom left-hand quadrant you can see that as our revenues increased both SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenues and interest as a percentage of revenues declined sequentially each quarter from prior quarter.
Since the first quarter of this year we saw SG&amp;A and interest percentages decrease 200 and 210 basis points respectively.
This demonstrates our ability to leverage the fixed component of these costs as we grow the top line.
Moving now to the upper right-hand corner our gross margin has also shown sequential improvements each quarter during fiscal '13.
In the third quarter of fiscal '13 our gross margin increased 140 basis points when compared to the second quarter of 2013.
And it improved 330 basis points compared to our first quarter.
We've been telling you for many quarters that we were steadily marching back toward normalized gross margins in the 20% to 21% range.
And we are pleased that our third quarter gross margin of 20.3% has begun to enter a more normal territory.
Our positive operating trends resulted in approximately $11 million of pretax profit during the third quarter before the impact of about $600 000 of land-related charges.
All of the above metrics on this slide represent year-over-year improvements for the third quarter as well.
For the third quarter of 2013 we reported net income of $8 million.
This is the second consecutive quarter that we reported net income and just about gets us to breakeven for the first 9 months of 2013.
Given both the number of homes in our contract backlog and the gross margins on these homes we expect to report much stronger results for our fourth quarter assuming market conditions remain stable and we are reiterating that our guidance that we expect to be profitable for all of fiscal '13.
On Slide 4 during the third quarter of '13 we showed that our net contract dollars increased 8% and our net contract numbers increased about 2% compared to the third quarter of fiscal '12.
We jokingly wish we had a June quarter end so that we could have reported our net contract dollars were up 17% and the number of contracts were up about 10% similar to what many of our peers recently reported that had June quarter ends.
However we've seen the market for new homes slow down a little during the months of July and August.
To put this slowdown into perspective we were well ahead of our internal year-to-date budgets for net contracts going into July and we are now slightly behind our year-to-date internal budget for net contracts at the end of August.
We attributed our sale -- we attribute our sales pace slowdown to a number of factors including significant home price increases higher mortgage rates and a little lower consumer confidence.
And we'll discuss all of this in just a moment.
It appears that consumers need a little time to adjust to the new home prices and mortgage rate environment.
If you turn to Slide 5 we take a more granular look at our net contract data.
Here we showed the dollar amount of net contracts for each month in fiscal '13 in blue the same month a year ago in yellow and the same month 2 years ago in gray.
Our year-over-year monthly dollar amount of net contracts continue to grow through June of '13.
However during July the last month of our quarter and August the beginning of our next quarter our sales activity slowed down a bit compared to last year when we posted some very strong year-over-year growth in these same months.
Looking at the steady gains we've posted for net contracts over the past 2 years comparisons are definitely a little more difficult.
If you turn to Slide 6 the number of Sundays per month clearly skewed our recent results just a bit.
This slide shows the average weekly dollar amount of net contracts per month over the last 3 years.
When you adjust for the number of weekends June was not quite as good as it appeared from the previous slide because there were 5 Sundays this year with only 4 Sundays in June of '12.
Here you can see June of '13 we had $40 million of net contracts per week slightly less than June of '12.
July was actually better than it looked on the previous slide since there are only 4 Sundays in July of '13 and we had 5 Sundays in July of '12.
This slide shows a 20% increase in the dollar amount of weekly net contracts in July over the previous year.
August was off about 5% compared to '12 still up about 43% compared to fiscal '11.
I also want to point out on this slide that there are times during recovery periods when the market takes a breather.
March of 2013 is a good example of that and we've circled that comparison in the red line.
The absolute dollar amount of net contracts in March of '13 increased 12% over the previous March.
However when you look at it on a weekly basis again most of our sales activity happens on the weekends you can see that March of 2013 actually dipped a little bit below March of '12.
But then thankfully we saw significant increases in the following months of April and May as the market got back on track.
If you look at net contracts per actively selling community as we do on Slide #7 you can see improvements through June here as well.
The slide shows monthly net contracts per community for the most recent 12-month period in blue and the same month 1 year before in yellow.
Prior to July of '13 we had 20 consecutive months of year-over-year increases in net contracts per community.
Once again the results would look a little less favorable in July -- in June and a little more favorable in July if you adjusted for the number of weekends in each month.
I'll now discuss the 4 factors that negatively impacted sales during the month of July and August from our perspective.
The first factor was seasonality.
We typically experience a normal seasonal slowdown in the summer months which for us happens to fall on our third quarter.
If you turn to Slide 8 here we show the current seasonal adjustment factors published by the U.S.
Census Bureau.
This shows normal monthly home sales peaking in April and then a significant decline in the months of July August and September.
So clearly seasonality played some role in the slowdown for us.
Another factor was the conscious decision on our part to aggressively raise home prices in many of our communities which often slows down sales pace temporarily.
In good times and in bad times the lever that we have to control is where we set our home prices.
We closely monitor both our sales velocity and our competitors' velocity and pricing trends.
When our actual sales pace exceeds our budgeted sales pace we try to push prices.
In hindsight we might have been a bit aggressive with our price increases in numerous communities and you'll see an example -- a few examples of that in a moment.
Throughout the first months -- 9 months of fiscal '13 we raised prices in about 80% of our communities.
This was particularly evident in California.
It's been harder to find new land acquisitions in California compared to other parts of the country so it's very important for us to try to maximize profitability from the land that we do already own there.
I'd like to show you a few micro-level details of sales and pricing at several communities around the country.
If you turn to Slide #9 here we show the sales pace and sales prices by week on this slide.
The net contracts each week for the trailing 12 months are the -- represented by the yellow line.
And the average sales price each week is represented by the blue line.
The axis for the blue line is on the right-hand side.
This is for one of our communities in Northern California.
From the beginning of this graph in August of '12 through August of '13 at the end of the graph we raised prices $131 000 or 38% in the single-family detached community at Roseville California.
Starting with the period we indicated by the red-letter 1 sales were very strong.
And during Period #2 where we show what we did with pricing we got quite aggressive and raised prices $50 000 in 3 separate price increases from the end of February to the end of March.
In the following 1.5 months designated by Period 3 sales slowed down after those price increases.
However after a few slow weeks of selling at these higher prices sales on their own finally started to pick up here again as people adjusted to the prices.
And you could see that in Period 4.
We quickly responded by raising prices again with 4 additional price increases totaling $25 000.
You can see that in the area we marked as Period 5.
Clearly this time we got a little overexuberant with the last price increase in June which amounted to an aggregate total of $141 000 in 12 months or 40%.
We only sold 1 home over the following 7-week period.
In the 7 weeks prior to the June price increase we sold 7 homes or 1 per week.
As you can see in Period 7 on this graph we recently made a small downward pricing adjustment in this community to try to increase the sales pace and it resulted in a sale the very next week.
Even at these adjusted prices our margins would be above those on any of the homes we delivered during the third quarter of this year in this community.
We show another community this time in Southern California on Slide 10.
This single-family detached community is in Lake Elsinore California.
First you can see in Period 1 sales started to accelerate in March our normal spring selling season.
We immediately responded with price increases $35 000 in 3 stages as noted in Period 2.
Sales continued at a more normal pace as you see in the area in the period designated as #3.
So we continued to raise home prices an additional $20 000 as noted in Period 4.
Again the final price increase might have been a bit aggressive in hindsight as the sales that we saw in the period that followed which we marked in #5 slowed.
We only sold about 5 homes in 12 weeks and in the prior 12-week period we sold 16 homes.
However you can also note that in the last few weeks sales have started to pick up again.
On Slide 11 we show our last example this one on the East Coast a single-family detached community in Woodbridge Virginia.
Over 9 months we had 5 separate price increases totaling $47 000 or 12%.
The last price increase in June finally slowed sales down.
Recently we made a minor $5 000 downward adjustment in prices and we saw sales resume to a more normalized pace.
The current prices are higher even after this small adjustment than any of the homes that we've delivered so far.
These are just 3 examples of communities where we raise home prices to the point of significantly slowing down sales pace.
When we first talk about increasing home prices we stressed that we wanted to be careful not to cut off sales pace.
Growing our top line is still important to achieving great performance.
When appropriate we are addressing these slower sales paces in some communities by offering some special concession or something that effectively lowers the net price particularly now on started unsold homes.
In other cases the team prefers to wait a little longer for the market to adjust and they feel confident that it will.
We continue to test pricing throughout all of our markets.
In many cases like the examples I just showed you we definitely found the top of the market in the pricing and had to react accordingly.
Slide 12 shows weekly traffic in these same communities.
As you can see while sales slowed down for periods during these 3 communities the traffic has remained quite steady and even increased in some cases.
That's a positive sign that gives us some good solid confidence.
Undoubtedly a slight decline in consumer sentiment and the rise in mortgage rates during the same period that we were very aggressive in our price increases affected sales and took away some of the sense of buyer urgency.
However we're confident that the -- any hesitancy our consumers have seen or felt or acted with the higher rates will be a temporary bump in the road to housing recovery.
Our confidence is bolstered by an analysis of long-term home ownership affordability which we show on Slide 13.
Even though there are some sticker shock for customers with the recent increase in mortgage rates and the increase in home prices we're still very comfortable at the affordability levels compared to historic standards.
Even if the 30-year mortgage rates were to increase 100 basis points to 5.4% home -- and if home prices on top of that went up another 6% from the June '13 levels shown on this slide affordability would still be better than at any point in the period shown on this slide '75 through 2007 notwithstanding the current few months' record-high affordability levels.
Many people seem to think that interest rates in the 4.5% range that we saw in July were absolutely too high and people would completely stop buying no one would be able to qualify for a home.
Obviously that hasn't quite been the case although it had a little more effect than frankly we thought when you combine it with a little consumer sentiment slowdown and some very aggressive price increases.
But if you turn to Slide 14 we show you where interest rates and total housing starts were in each of the last 3 housing recoveries.
And I think this slide puts the current environment into a little better perspective.
In 1983 after the recessions of the early '80s we started more than 1.7 million homes in this country almost double the current pace.
And 30-year mortgage rates were over 13%.
In '92 right after the '90 '91 recession mortgage rates were over 8% far higher than they are right now.
And we started almost 1.2 million homes a greater number than we have now.
And most recently in 2002 after a short recession in 2001 1.7 million homes were started when rates were about 6.5% on average about 50% higher than they are right now.
During each of these recoveries we built far more homes than we're currently building with rates that are much higher than they are today.
Slide 15 shows the annual net contract per community for the last 16 years.
The seasonally adjusted number for the first 9 months of 2013 is shown in blue and it's an improvement at 32.3 net contracts per community compared to last year's pace of 28.1.
However there is still a substantial amount of upside opportunity before we return to more normalized pace levels in the mid-40s per community that you see on the left-hand side of this slide.
Even with the slower sales pace in our July quarter on Slide 6 we show you that when you compare us to our peers we still have the fourth-highest net contracts per community in the industry from the prior 12 months.
And that compares our results to most of our peers that had a quarter that ended in June typically a better period.
On Slide 17 we show consolidated newly-identified communities in yellow and legacy communities in blue.
We finished the July quarter with 186 wholly-owned actively selling communities.
Since the end of fiscal '12 our wholly-owned community count has increased about 8%.
Our community count is beginning to reflect the efforts we've been making to control new land parcels in all of our markets.
This increase in community count should help us to continue to grow our net contracts and revenues as we move forward.
During the third quarter we controlled 3 900 additional lots and we spent $148 million on land and land development which is higher than the average of $119 million that we spent during the previous 4 quarters.
We definitely have the liquidity to keep buying more land as we move forward and we'll discuss that a little more in Larry's portion of the presentation.
Slide 18 shows our quarterly deliveries in blue and the net additions of newly-acquired land in yellow.
For each of the past 5 quarters over this time period our net additions were in excess of our home deliveries.
The land market certainly remains competitive in each of our markets and our land acquisition teams had been very busy.
When evaluating these land parcels we remain disciplined in our underwriting assumptions.
We are still able to find land that generates unlevered IRRs that meet or exceed our underwriting guidelines based on current home prices and current sales pace without appreciation factored in.
While we don't assume appreciation nor do we assume increase in construction costs or absorption paces when we underwrite land for a limited number of prime land sites in strong markets we occasionally will lower our 25% IRR to around 20%.
Our ability to grow our top line along with increasing gross margin allowed us to improve our performance during the third quarter of 2013.
Although we are pleased with the improvement we recognize that we still have much work to do.
We've got to control more new land grow our revenue further and continue to exercise our business plans in order to return to the levels of profitability that justify our shareholders' confidence.
Now I'll turn it over to Larry.
Thanks Ara.
On Slide 19 we show our homebuilding gross margin percentage each of the past 10 quarters.
We've seen a steady trend of increasing gross margins over this time period ending with the third quarter gross margin of 20.3%.
During the third quarter of 2013 77% of our wholly-owned deliveries were from newly-identified land parcels compared with only 39% in the second quarter of 2011.
This increase in deliveries from newly-identified land parcels have certainly played a role in getting the gross margin back to normal levels.
As Ara mentioned we will be taking appropriate actions to increase our sales pace going -- in the future including lowering home prices when necessary but don't leap to the conclusion that our gross margin will drop.
The gross margin for the third quarter reflected homes that were contracted in prior periods and in the vast majority of cases do not reflect the price increases we implemented during the third quarter.
Our fourth quarter deliveries are largely in backlog and will not be materially impacted by any actions we take to regain our sales momentum.
Turning to Slide 20 we continue to make good progress on leveraging our total SG&amp;A expense.
On this slide we show total SG&amp;A as a percentage of total revenues.
Here we show 2011 in gray each quarter of 2012 is in yellow and the first 3 quarters of 2013 are in blue.
Below each of these bars we show the absolute dollar amount of our total SG&amp;A for each quarter.
As seen on this slide SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenues has declined each of the past 7 quarters on a year-over-year basis.
During the third quarter of fiscal 2013 our total SG&amp;A dollars increased slightly to $56 million compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2013.
However our ability to grow revenues without proportional increase of SG&amp;A continues to provide us with operating leverage.
Total SG&amp;A as a percentage of total revenues improved from 12.4% in fiscal 2012's third quarter to 11.8% in our third quarter of fiscal 2013.
On Slide 21 we show our annual total SG&amp;A ratio as a percentage of total revenues as well as year-to-date comparisons through the first 9 months of 2013 and 2012.
For the first 9 months of 2013 our SG&amp;A ratio dropped to 12.5% down 170 basis points compared to the same time period last year.
In normal times our SG&amp;A ratio is approximately 10%.
As we continue to generate revenue growth we expect to be able to leverage our fixed SG&amp;A expenses and get this ratio back to a normalized level.
We remain very focused on controlling new land parcels.
On Slide 22 we show that since 2009 -- of January of 2009 we've controlled 30 100 lots in 497 communities.
At the end of the third quarter of 2013 there are still about 20 100 of these newly-controlled lots remaining at attractive land values for our future deliveries.
The right-hand side of this slide shows the total gross additions during the third quarter were 4 100 lots and that we walked away from about 200 newly-identified lots.
In recent quarters these walkaways have typically occurred during the initial due diligence period and our deposit has been refunded.
The net result for the third quarter was that our total lots purchased or controlled since January 2009 increased by about 3 900 lots sequentially from the second quarter of 2013.
Turning now to Slide 23 you'll see our owned and optioned land position broken out by our publicly reported segments.
Based on our trailing 12-month deliveries we own 3.1 years worth of land.
However if you exclude the roughly 6 700 mothballed lots based on delivery rate of the past 4 quarters we only have about 1.8 years worth of land.
At the end of the third quarter 83% of our optioned lots are newly-identified lots.
Excluding mothballed lots 76% of our total lots are newly-identified lots.
Our investment in land option deposits was $63 million at July 31 2013 was $62 million in cash deposits and the other $1 million of deposits being held by letters of credit.
Additionally we have another $10 million invested in predevelopment expenses.
Turning now to Slide 24 we show our mothballed lots broken out by geographic segment.
In total we have about 6 700 mothballed lots within 51 communities that were mothballed as of July 31 2013.
The book value at the end of the third quarter for these remaining mothballed lots was $125 million net of an impairment balance of $443 million.
We're carrying these mothballed lots at 22% of their original value.
Since 2009 we've unmothballed approximately 3 500 lots within 62 communities.
As home prices continue to rise we expect to unmothball additional communities as we move forward.
Every quarter we review each of our mothballed communities to see if they are ready to be put back into production.
Assuming market conditions remain strong as we look across the entire country there are approximately 500 lots in 4 communities that could move from mothballed to active over the next couple of quarters.
The combination of our 20 100 remaining newly-identified lots and the 6 700 mothballed lots provides approximately 26 800 lots at very attractive land values for future deliveries.
Looking at all of our consolidated communities in the aggregate including mothballed communities we have an inventory book value of $1.1 billion net of $643 million of impairments which we recorded on 91 of our communities.
For the properties that have been impaired we're carrying them at 22% of their pre-impaired value.
Another area of discussion for the quarter is related to our current deferred tax asset valuation allowance.
At the end of the third quarter the valuation allowance in the aggregate was $941 million.
Our valuation allowance is a very significant asset not currently reflected on our balance sheet and we've taken many steps to protect it.
We expect to be able to reverse this allowance after we generate consecutive years of solid profitability and continue to project solid profitability going forward.
We are predicting the return to profitability for our full 2013 fiscal year.
As we said last quarter if current market trends continue next year we are optimistic that we could reverse the vast majority of our valuation allowance in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014.
When the reversal does occur we expect the remaining allowance to be added back to our shareholders' equity to further strengthen our balance sheet.
We ended the third quarter with total shareholders' deficit of $467 million.
If you add back the total valuation allowance as we've done on Slide 25 then our shareholders' equity would be $474 million.
While we have no intentions of issuing equity anytime soon we could issue approximately 100 million additional shares of Hovnanian common stock for cash without limiting our ability to utilize our net operating losses.
Let me reiterate that the tax asset valuation allowance is for GAAP purposes only.
For tax purposes our tax assets may be carried forward for 20 years from occurrence and we expect to utilize those tax loss carryforwards as we generate profits in the future.
We will not have to pay federal income taxes on $2.1 billion of future pretax profits.
Now let me update you on our mortgage operations.
Turning to Slide 26 you can see the credit quality of our mortgage customers continues to remain strong with average FICO scores of 746.
For the third quarter of fiscal 2013 our mortgage company captured 73% of our non-cash home-buying customers.
Turning to Slide 27 we show a breakout of all the various loan types originated by our mortgage operations for the third quarter of fiscal 2013 compared to all of fiscal 2012.
22.5% of our originations were for FHA loans during our fiscal 2013 third quarter compared to 27.8% we saw during all of fiscal 2012 and the 34.1% we saw for FHA during all of fiscal 2011.
Our use of FHA mortgages clearly has declined.
At the same time we saw our conforming conventional originations increase to 61.4% during the third quarter of 2013 compared to 53.7% for all of 2012 and 47.1% during all of fiscal 2011.
Now turning to our debt maturity ladder which can be found on Slide 28.
We have only $122 million of debt maturing before 2016 and we remain quite confident that we can deal with the unsecured notes maturing between 2014 and 2017 either through refinancing them or paying them off as they come due.
After spending $148 million on land and land development we ended the third quarter of fiscal 2013 with approximately $227 million in homebuilding cash including cash used to collateralize letters of credit.
Additionally during the third quarter we announced that we obtained a $75 million 5-year unsecured revolving line of credit from Citibank which further enhances our liquidity position.
Prior to obtaining the revolving credit facility we established a $170 million to $245 million cash target range.
While we're not changing our cash -- our target levels we are modifying our target to a liquidity target range rather than a cash target range.
Total liquidity for this target will include homebuilding cash plus any undrawn amount available under our revolver.
At the end of the third quarter we had $227 million of homebuilding cash and $52 million available to be drawn under our revolver for a total liquidity position of $279 million.
As you can see on Slide 29 we show our liquidity position as of July 31 2013 on the left and our $170 million to $245 million targeted liquidity range on the right.
Even though we spent $148 million on land and land development during our third quarter which is more than the $119 million we've averaged on land spend for the previous 4 quarters we remain above the $245 million upper end of our targeted liquidity range.
We feel good about our liquidity position.
And if we find sufficient new land parcels that meet our underwriting hurdle rates we would remain comfortable even if liquidity was at the lower end of our target range.
Finally over the past couple of years we've been explaining to investors that we believe we would be able to increase our inventory turnover rate which allows us to grow the company even if we did not increase our capital position.
On Slide 30 you can clearly see the progress we've made on this front during the past year.
The first bar shows our inventory turnover rate at 2.1x in fiscal 2002 before the boom and bust of the industry.
The next 2 bars indicate our turnover rates during fiscal 2011 and 2012.
We increased our inventory turnover rate from 1.1x in fiscal 2011 to 1.4x during fiscal 2012.
Looking to the right-hand side of the slide you'll see that the trailing 12-month basis ended July 31 2013 our turnover rate increased further to 1.7x which is also slightly higher than the 1.6x for the trailing 12 months as of April 30 2013.
We believe our historical turnover rates in excess of 2x will be achievable again in the future.
That concludes our formal remarks and we'll be happy to open it up for Q&amp;A now.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of David Goldberg representing UBS.
Research Division</strong> My first question was on land acquisition and I wanted to get an idea how you guys are thinking about this potential uncertainty.
I know you believe it's kind of a blip in the road here in July and consumers maybe just needed to adjust to higher rates and the increase in home prices.
But given you've had to pull back price in some of your communities to restart sales as you kind of reviewed in the presentation how are you thinking about the potential downside on land acquisition? And how are you kind of managing against that risk? Right now obviously as we always do we use the most current prices in evaluating our land acquisitions.
So if there were sites where we have done a downward adjustment and frankly they're tiny adjustments relatively speaking then we use the current pricing which would be lower.
At the moment we still see lots of opportunity and we're moving forward on our acquisition plan without hesitating.
Obviously as always we'll look at every month's results.
And if we really felt like there was a broader overall market slowdown we might alter our plans and we have plenty of time to do that.
We're well below our targeted investment levels.
So we've got a while to catch up to where we'd like to be and have the capability of being.
And so we'll have an opportunity to adjust if we need to.
I'd be surprised.
David in addition to Ara's comment about price our underwriting also self-adjusts for current absorption pace as well.
So whatever is currently going on with home prices currently going on with weekly monthly absorption pace is taken into account towards our IRR hurdle rate.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
My follow-up question was actually kind of on price discounts.
I know you mentioned in a couple of slides taking pricing down.
And obviously after big moves in taking very slight price adjustments relatively.
So I'm not trying to focus on the negative I think pricing gains you've had are fantastic.
But what I'm trying to understand is when you decide to cut prices what are the other options that are available to you? Maybe taking some amenities out of the home to keep the price a little bit more affordable for the buyer or maybe doing them -- offering incentives in other ways like buying down rates or something like that.
How do you thinking about the profit before you actually go to cut prices which is I would believe much more visible to the buyer? Can you give some of the tools that are in the tool belt to use and how you think about employing those tools to help if needed to kind of restart the sales level you're comfortable with? Yes.
There are a number of different approaches and we really leave it up to the local management to decide what's the best approach that they would like to make.
And by the way in some cases even though they've seen sales let's say below their budget for a month or 2 they may choose to do nothing and unless it really became a significant issue we're okay with that.
It's often in cases where they're way head of sales already for construction and they don't mind having a little period of slowdown in a specific community for that community to catch up.
But as you point out there are a variety of ways to do it.
One way is to just make an adjustment on spec homes that are ready to go.
And that's often is a little less visible it's a specific home.
In other cases they may do adjustments on lot premiums.
Also a little less visible perhaps than some.
Although we're not overly concerned about the visibility because we in many cases where we've got too aggressive more of the homes -- most of the homes are sold at lower prices anyway.
So it's not as though there are a lot of buyers that would be upset at those higher prices.
In other cases it might be an incentive for somebody that buys a home and closes by our fiscal year end with a period.
Maybe they'll throw in some appliance package or some nominal little promotion.
And yet in other cases a couple of our divisions are looking at -- for specific communities perhaps for it's -- again for specs looking at a short-term rate buy down with a limited amount.
So they're looking at all the different tools and we really leave it up to the local divisional management to make the selection.
And David just a final point which may not have come across 100% clearly during the presentation.
Those 3 slides that we gave as examples that showed net pricing.
So if one of our local teams decided to add incentives or some other form of concession rather than absolutely lowering the price it still shows up as a net price decline but they would've used some other tool other than just lowering the price.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Oppenheim with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just wondering if you can -- just start by talking about the idea of terms of raising price and what have you in the community level but also thinking what you're doing there in Red Bank in terms of just offering some guidance towards the regional level.
And then if we look at those 3 communities you're highlighting there are some meaningful price increases that were taking place and implemented call it in May into June at a time when rates were going up.
And while it's clear that there's strength there and you could see from the springtime the demand what about sort of just taking a step back saying gee with rates going up like this should we be a bit less aggressive here? And just given the -- what can be problematic in terms of cancellations as you end up having to bring down pricing just how do you think about that overall in terms of just guiding those -- the price increases and the pricing decisions at communities? We generally do not get from the corporate level do not get very specific about prices other than to give general ranges.
Generally speaking we have encouraged our management teams to find the market.
I think there were homes that were sold by ourselves and others that were under what the market was willing to bear.
And perhaps in retrospect we could have or should have taken into account the effect of the rates.
But we certainly saw pretty good sales even while the rates were going for some extended period of time.
So we felt it was most prudent to continue to find the pricing and then we just adjust and react accordingly as we know how to do.
Unfortunately we had do it on the way down when things were really going down and we were able to do that effectively.
And we wanted to find the top this time as well.
And as we've shown you in a few cases we've had to adjust it and that's been fine.
In other cases we really didn't do much adjustment and the market just got used to it for 4 or 5 or 6 weeks.
And eventually sales just picked up on their own without any additional incentives just as they got over the sticker shock.
So I mean it's hard to call it perfectly but we feel okay about what we're doing.
If the sales continue much at slow paces in September and October we would certainly look at doing some broader based adjustments.
But hopefully that won't be the case.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then I guess one follow-up.
In terms of the -- just having seen some things in the past we always just worried when there aren't any down adjustments in terms of cancellations.
But given that -- the way that the orders did slow up since the last price increases there probably isn't much of the backlog that would be if price is higher than where we are today.
So feeling pretty confident in terms of what the future cancellation risk there in terms of just deliveries correct? Yes exactly the point.
I mean we didn't typically sell many homes at that IRR price which is why we're looking at lowering now.
The next question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut representing JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Jason Marcus in for Mike.
Just moving back to the land market for a minute.
I was just wondering if maybe you could comment on some of the recent trends that you've seeing as you're looking to purchase new land in terms of the competition and the pricing.
And maybe if you've seen anything meaningful given the interest rate move over the last several months in terms of what you're seeing in the land market.
It's interesting and it's a good question we -- in some of the very heated markets we found some peers were beginning to either factor in a lower hurdle rate than we were willing to take on the IRR or they were factoring in some appreciation or so it seemed to us because there were prices that transacted that were a little higher than what we could justify.
Just anecdotal feedback from the road I was out on the West Coast a few days ago was that they felt in the last month or so that that has tapered a bit.
And again this is unscientific but the feedback was that many of our peers that were anxious to fill the pipeline made some progress in filling their pipeline and are now not being quite as aggressive which is frankly helpful for us but we shall see.
That's just anecdotal from the last month or so.
Research Division</strong> Next question.
In terms of your buyer mix have you seen -- in terms of the impact from interest rates over the last couple of months has there been one segment that has -- maybe was more impacted than some of the others as you look across the different buyer segment? I think I would say the comments are pretty much like we have been making over the last few quarters and that's that the market overall has improved and perhaps the group that still has not jumped in as much as the others is the first-time homebuyer market which I've mentioned on prior calls was counterintuitive to me because they didn't have a home to sell so they weren't burdened with an underwater mortgage.
But that is the group that's been the most affected typically with the stricter qualifications right now in my opinion too strict.
There are people that we were able to approve for decades are having a tough time today.
I'm not talking about the ones that got subprime but those that were tried and true borrowers really did not have problems.
Those buyers at this moment because the pendulum has really over swung in my opinion they are having a tough time.
Eventually the pendulum I think will swing back to normal.
Normal not being the subprime days but before subprime.
And I think that will help really round out the recovery by bringing that part of the food chain if you will the entry-level buyer into the overall market as well.
But generally we're seeing the active adult buyers come in the move-up buyers come in.
It's been -- and by product I mean whether they're townhouses or singles we've seen it do well.
Generally speaking a little higher price points in larger homes are fairing quite well.
Research Division</strong> Lastly can you provide the order number for August excluding JVs for this year and last year? Hold on for a second.
We'll see whether we have it at our fingertips here.
Got it Jeff? Yes.
It was 390 during August 2013 versus 430 during August of '12.
The next question comes from the line of Adam Rudiger representing Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess sticking with just with the same topic we were just discussing mortgage availability given your comments on--there was an article today in the Wall Street Journal on conforming loan lids.
Any thoughts on how that will impact your business if at all? What did the article say? LLC Research Division</strong> Just that the temporary extension up to the $600 000 $700 000 range is going to be reduced.
We all sell -- I mean our average home price is a little over $300 000.
I don't think it will have a significant impact on us.
It may have a very incremental negative but we are seeing a little bit of money coming in on the nonconforming side.
So I'm not overly concerned about it.
Obviously nonconforming mortgages are more expensive.
So again it's an incremental negative but because of where our price point is I don't think it's anything to be overly concerned about.
Yes.
Interestingly I've heard some comments and I haven't even had a chance to chat with Larry about it that some of the jumbo rates we're hearing about on the private sector are coming in lower than our GSC rates.
It will be interesting to see how that plays out.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then going back on Dave's question earlier could you actually -- can you tell us what the incentives were this quarter as a percentage of sales price relative to a year ago? No.
We just don't track it that way.
Yes yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Ivy Zelman representing Zelman &amp; Associates.
LLC</strong> You gave a lot of great information.
I thought your presentation and the examples you gave of the 3 markets on what your pricing and sales pace were was very very helpful on transparency or gave us great transparency.
But if you walk through the portfolio sort of as you looked at it in aggregate maybe you can talk about what the magnitude of communities where you were let's say forced to reduce price versus those that held steady versus those increased in total to give us sort of a broader perspective? And then just Larry in one of your comments you talked about that the margins and backlog going into fourth quarter are going to be higher given that any of your price actions would not be reflected in fourth quarter.
Are price actions that you've taken going out when those units do get delivered going to be a drag on margins where we'd actually see some potential margin compression because of the price actions that you took that won't close in for a few more quarters? Let me just address the second part of your question first.
To clarify what I said was don't leap to the conclusion that these recent price tweaks that we've done are going to cause margins to deteriorate.
I didn't say gross margin is going to be higher in the fourth quarter.
I didn't make any prediction about fourth quarter gross margins.
I just didn't want anybody to think that all of a sudden we're going to have a big decline in gross margins for fourth quarter because even in the third quarter the price increases that we instituted in the third quarter weren't a part of our third quarter deliveries.
They are still in backlog which may have led you to conclude that I'm saying that gross margins are going to go up but I didn't quite say it that way.
And I would also say that these tweaks in pricing that we've made community-by-community and again we've encouraged our divisions where appropriate to make adjustments.
But it isn't widespread that they've actually occurred.
So we're just kind of playing the market out to see what's happening at this point.
Maybe Ara wants to add additional color.
Yes.
I think -- well again to even further clarify or reiterate Larry's point that the examples we gave where we actually lowered prices a bit the deliveries from those sales will probably have higher margins than the deliveries from those -- from our third quarter in those communities.
So they were minor in amount and our prices are still higher than what we delivered in those.
So I wouldn't be overly concerned on that.
The -- if you look at our contracts from the release by geography you'd see the West had the biggest decline and that's the place where we saw the most price increases and where we've done a little bit of adjustment.
Some of our other markets we haven't done a lot.
They still were up.
You'd see that in the Midwest was up year-over-year.
The Southeast was up year-over-year so we haven't had to do a lot of adjusting in some of those markets.
More of it was focused on the West.
Mid-Atlantic was -- maybe had more examples because they were up only a couple of percent versus the Midwest and the Southeast where we had sales up -- net contracts up in the mid-20% range if that gives you some clarity.
LLC</strong> No that's helpful.
If you guys talk about maybe more specifically your spec strategy.
I know that industry as a whole has not that much inventory in the market completed specs certainly even just started spec.
With respect to the slowing that we've seen or softness and not realizing if it's going to pick up anytime soon.
We know other builders are already in some markets that are not as -- I guess don't have as easy access to capital could start to get nervous and start to use more concessions.
So tell us about your spec strategy what percent of inventory would you start specs or started specs? And will you change that strategy in light of a softer market? And how do you react to competitors who are starting to use concessions that are worried about getting their money out of the ground? In the appendix to the slide deck is some pretty good information on our current position on unsold homes.
We had 617 started unsold homes as of July 31 excluding models.
Since 1997 we've averaged 4.7 started unsold homes per community.
As of July 31 2013 we're only at 3.3 started unsold homes per community so we're lower than average.
And you can even see kind of the yellow on that slide trending downward.
So we've been pretty conservative in terms of the amount of started unsold homes.
I understand your point with respect to there may be some builders that have been a little more aggressive and they may cut prices.
We've seen that in prior cycles prior quarters.
And we just address it community-by-community rather than kind of broad-based situation.
And it's usually short term in nature short lived kind of proposition.
Ara do you have any other comments? No.
I would just end overall that we have fewer specs than our peers per community.
If anything I just recently reviewed the data.
I don't remember the exact numbers but I was surprised that we were quite a bit lower than some of our peers that had ramped up a bit more.
Maybe that ramp up helped them in their recent few months of sales because they really had some homes that were obviously available for quick delivery that we didn't have.
But we're not making any general change in our strategy right now.
I think our decline in specs really resulted from faster sales than we had planned as opposed to any wide strategy to reduce the number of specs that we have.
Your next question comes from the line of Nishu Sood representing Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow up on some of the land spend questions earlier.
Your pace on lot acquisition has increased pretty impressively.
And so I wanted to just get a sense of where you've been most successful in acquiring new lots just geographically.
And maybe if you could kind of color that with your commentary earlier about what's driving the land market right now.
I'd say just quick thoughts.
And I don't have the exact numbers at my fingertips but we haven't been as successful in Northern and Southern California and I -- as I'd like.
I don't think they've held their percentage of our acquisitions.
And probably in Minneapolis we haven't been quite as able to get the sites that we'd like that pencil out.
The other market that might come to mind is Orlando.
We'd certainly like to be more aggressive than we've been.
Those are the only quick standouts that come to mind.
Having said that I think we are making some progress in each of those and would hope to enter contracts and get through land committee in those markets with some more parcels.
Research Division</strong> Got it and I agree.
And following up on Ivy's question earlier about spec strategy.
Just thinking about it a little bit differently I wanted to get your thoughts on the industry the evolving spec strategy here.
With the volatility in interest rates obviously waiting for a to-be-built home especially with the rising material and labor shortages 6 to 8 months is a long period of time to wait in terms of mortgage rate volatility.
So you laid out what your strategy is going to be.
Do you think the industry might begin to respond with a greater number of specs just due to the volatility in mortgage rates? That's an interesting thought.
I really haven't focused on that.
Generally by the way our spec strategy is a little different geographically.
Houston in particular we run -- generally run our business with a spec strategy.
Almost everything starts as a spec in the Houston geography maybe not quite that extreme in Dallas but close to that.
And then if you exclude townhouses in the D.C.
or the New Jersey market we build virtually no specs and almost everything is to order.
It is probably something worth pointing out worth us focusing on in a potentially rising mortgage rate environment to think about that.
It's a good point and we'll probably kick it around a bit.
[Operator Instructions] The next question comes from the line of Susan Berliner representing JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I guess just starting with land spend going forward.
Are you guys updating your land spend forecast for the remainder of the year at all are you changing that at all? We didn't make one to begin with.
So I don't think we're going to adjust it now Sue.
But I think you can just assume that we're out there busily looking.
And we've been -- we certainly spent a lot more in the third quarter than we had the previous 4 quarters on average as we indicated in the script.
And we're continuing to look for deals and do not believe that liquidity is a limiting factor on being able to continue to do numbers similar to what you saw in the third quarter but we've never made a formal land spend projection per se.
We'll add that the addition of the Citibank line of credit gives us a little more dry powder to increase our land spend.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just turning to liquidity.
I guess I assume the bank agreement will be filed with the 3Q.
Is the $52.2 million available is that based on the borrowing base calculation? I'm sorry repeat the question.
Research Division</strong> Is the $52.2 million is that limited by the borrowing base calculation of the revolver? Yeah.
Research Division</strong> Can you tell us what the differential is besides the LCs? There's -- I mean we can fully draw whenever we want without a financial covenant whatsoever with respect to drawing it down.
Yes.
So that is -- the LCs are the only differential.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then any update on the GSO land banking relationship? I think we've now identified everything to fill the second bucket and we've almost closed out the second bucket.
And the GSOs recently inquired whether we're interested in obtaining a third bucket but nothing formally has been done yet.
Your next question comes from the line of Brendan Lynch representing Sidoti.
LLC</strong> You mentioned that the landmark in California is particularly constrained.
In light of that can you comment on your mothball lot situation there? And I know you're bringing some of those back online and just an update on what that status is.
Yes.
So just a summary of where we are I mean there's 4 767 mothballed lots in California.
Go ahead Ara.
Yes.
And a good chunk of those are in Northern California and that market is certainly gotten heated up.
So in some of them we're in the process of resite lining [ph] them to really optimize it for the current market.
But we've been unmothballing some sites somewhere almost every quarter.
And I suspect that's going to be continuing.
I don't have any specific comments on the California ones and the timing but I think we'll make steady progress as we determine the right timing on those.
Yes.
Similar to my comments in the formal comments in the script I mean we clearly view those mothballed lots in all geographies but especially in California as very attractively priced future land for growth.
So as the market continues to improve you'll see more of that unmothballed.
LLC</strong> Okay great.
And could you also just comment on the higher cancellation rate during the quarter? I'd imagine this is mostly due to interest rates but your thoughts on that.
And also if any of the cancellations you see resulting in an order of a less expensive home just due to the pricing power that customers have.
Cancellation rates in our opinion are below normal levels.
It was down year-over-year it might have been up just a touch sequentially.
But we think we're below normalized cancellation rates.
Ara I don't know you want to address the second half of his question? I'm sorry could you repeat the second half? LLC</strong> Yes sure.
So I was asking whether if you see cancellations I think they're at 21% this quarter versus 18% last quarter if you see any of those cancellations resulting in order for a less expensive home.
I cannot say that I have heard that specifically no.
Cancellation rates were 18% compared to 21% a year ago so we're actually down 3% this year versus last year.
You said it the opposite.
Your next question comes from the line of Megan McGrath representing MKM Partners.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered but we haven't heard a lot lately about input prices.
Maybe you should give us an update on labor and supply cost? Well thankfully lumber which had been climbing quite a bit earlier in the year has settled back a little bit.
That has been helpful.
Other than that -- and that by the way is the primary ingredient in a home if you will the primary material.
There's more dollars spent on lumber than any other material.
So that's a good thing.
There have been a few other products that have gone just slightly the other way but I'd say in the last couple of months we felt a little less pricing pressure for sure than we did last quarter.
And we're hearing less anecdotal comments about our divisions having trouble finding labor for this particular component or that particular component.
So it seems to have abated somewhat.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then maybe a little more color.
We've talked a lot about the East Coast and the West Coast markets.
But clearly your results at least on the order growth were better in the Midwest and the Southeast on a year-over-year basis.
Any specific areas you'd like to highlight there? Midwest and Southeast I don't know that we have any real color other than they've had a little bit more success there.
But I can't think of any particular communities Ara maybe you can that outperformed in those areas per se.
Well I mean the Southeast we've certainly done well in the Florida market South Eastern Florida specifically which is the most constrained.
We've done relatively well in Orlando as well.
We're doing well in Tampa but not -- we don't quite have the pricing power in Tampa where land is not quite as constrained as the other 2 markets.
The next question comes from the line of Eli Hackel representing Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 questions.
One how much do you think the increase in supply in existing homes has been impacting the business of new homes? And then just more of a higher level question you had a good slide about your affordability relative to history.
If houses still really are affordable relative to history why do you think people aren't buying at the 4.5% or 4.7% mortgage when theoretically they could still afford it? Sure.
I think regarding your -- the latter part first I think it's a little bit of sticker shock when we've had that much price increase at that -- in this soon of a period.
I just think it takes a little adjusting time for people.
By the way the same thing happened on the way down.
A lot of sellers did not want to sell their home initially as their values came down.
But then eventually they adjusted to the price and people did decide to sell their home.
The same thing happens to buyers on the way up.
And sometimes it just takes a little bit of time and a little bit of that sense of urgency diminishes and they take their time.
Regarding the other part of the question month's supply in virtually every market were built in has been going down in terms of existing homes on the market.
In fact many of our markets if not all of them -- not all of them many of our market if not most of them is what I meant to say are below what we consider the normal range.
The normal range would be 4 to 6 months’ supply.
And you get there by just taking the total number of listings and dividing it by the sales in the most recent month.
Most markets are below normal that we build in.
So that's a pretty positive environment right now.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Hovnanian for closing remarks.
Thank you.
Well we're pleased with the results.
We tried to give you as much clarity and granularity in terms of the data as we could.
And we look forward to delivering another great quarter and even hopefully stronger quarter in the fourth quarter.
Thank you.
This concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you for all participating and have a great day.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for Hovnanian Enterprises Fiscal 2013 Fourth Quarter and Year-end Earnings Conference Call.
An archive of the webcast will be available after the completion of the call and run for 12 months.
This conference is being recorded for rebroadcast and all participants are currently in a listen-only mode.
Management will make some opening remarks about the fourth quarter results and then open up the line for questions.
The company will also be webcasting a slide presentation along with the opening comments from management.
The slides are available on the investor's page of the company's website at www.khov.com.
Those listeners who would like to follow along should log onto the website at this time.
Before we begin I would like to turn the call over to Jeff O'Keefe Vice President Investor Relations.
Jeff please go ahead.
Thank you.
Before we get started I would like to quickly read through our forward-looking statements.
All statements in this conference call that are not historical facts should be considered as forward-looking statements.
Such statements involve known and unknown risks uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results performance or achievements of the company to be materially different from any future results performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements.
Although we believe that our plans intentions and expectations reflected in or suggested by such forward-looking statements are reasonable we can give no assurance that such plans intentions or expectations will be achieved.
Such risks uncertainties and other factors include but are not limited to changes in general and local economic industry and business conditions and impacts of the sustained homebuilding downturn; adverse weather and other environmental conditions and natural disasters; changes in market conditions and seasonality of the company's business; changes in home prices and sales activity in the markets where the company builds homes; government regulation including regulations concerning development of land the homebuilding sales and customer financing processes tax laws and the environment; fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of mortgage financing; shortages in and price fluctuations of raw materials and labor; the availability and cost of suitable land and improved lots; levels of competition; availability of financing to the company; utility shortages and outages or rate fluctuations; levels of indebtedness and restrictions on the company's operations and activities imposed by the agreements governing the company's outstanding indebtedness; the company's sources of liquidity; changes in credit ratings; availability of net operating loss carryforwards; operations through joint ventures with third parties; product liability litigation warranty claims and claims by mortgage investors; successful identification and integration of acquisitions; significant influence of the company's controlling stockholders; changes in tax laws affecting the after-tax costs of owning a home; geopolitical risks terrorist acts and other acts of war; and other factors described in detail on the company's annual report on the Form 10-K for the year ended October 31 2012.
Except as otherwise required by applicable securities laws we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events changed circumstances or any other reason.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ara Hovnanian our Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer.
Thanks Jeff.
And thank you all for participating in this morning's call to review the results of our fourth quarter and the year ended October 2013.
Joining me on the call today are Larry Sorsby Executive Vice President and CFO; Brad O'Connor Vice President Chief Accounting Officer and Corporate Controller; David Valiaveedan Vice President of Finance and Treasurer; and Jeff O'Keefe Vice President of Investor Relations.
Let's start with Slide 3.
Here we show numerous operating metrics all of which improved each quarter in fiscal '13.
For the past several years we've talked about our goal of achieving sustainable profitability through top line growth.
In the top left-hand quadrant you can see that our total revenues increased sequentially each quarter during fiscal '13.
Moving across the top we show that our gross margin also increased sequentially each quarter in fiscal '13.
On our conference call last quarter we discussed increasing our sales pace by implementing sales incentives at some of our communities which would result in modest net price reductions.
During the quarter we implemented new pricing incentives in about 10% of our communities.
In spite of these net price reductions we grew our gross margins to 22.6% in the fourth quarter the highest level we've had since the fourth quarter of '06.
In the bottom left-hand quadrant we show both total SG&amp;A and interest expense as a percentage of total revenues.
Both of these metrics improved throughout the year as we grew our top line.
SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales got close to a normalized level during the fourth quarter thanks to a typical seasonal surge in deliveries.
We still have some more work to do to get this percentage down even further.
These improvements will be driven by future revenue growth and our ability to control expenses.
Our interest as a percentage of sales remains above normalized levels but this too improved each quarter through the fiscal year.
In the bottom right-hand quadrant we show pretax income for each quarter of fiscal '13.
We started out the year with losses but as we grew our revenues we fully leveraged our fixed costs and returned to profitability in the third and fourth quarters of fiscal '13.
We're pleased to report our first full year of pretax profitability since '06.
During last quarterly conference call we reported slowing sales in the months of July and August compared to the previous year.
As you can see on Slide 4 the slowness continued into September.
This coincided with the rise in mortgage rates the sequester and the fiscal showdown in Congress.
However the slower sales trends reversed in October as we got back to the same dollar amount in net contracts this year compared to last.
The improvement continued in November of '13 as the dollar amount of net contracts increased 11% over the same month in the previous year.
Slide 5 shows that during the month of October net contracts increased sequentially to 465 and net contracts per community increased sequentially to 2.3.
This pickup follows a typical seasonal pattern.
Looking at it compared to '12 the absolute number of net contracts increased by 1 home in 2013 so they were essentially flat compared to last year.
And on a per-community basis they were down slightly from 2.5 in October of '12 to 2.3 in October of '13.
While seasonality typically leads to increased sequential sales in October November begins the seasonal winter slowdown.
As is typical we saw contracts and contracts per community down on a sequential basis.
The year-over-year comparisons were relatively flat from a net contracts perspective and decreased slightly on a net contracts per community basis.
As we discussed in our Third Quarter Conference Call we feel that we have been too aggressive on raising home prices in some of our communities.
We did make minor adjustments to net pricing primarily increasing incentives to try to drive some demand to our communities.
Looking at our sales for November and October it appears that the increased incentives in about 20 of our communities did in fact benefit our overall sales efforts.
However as I said earlier we're now in a period that is seasonally slow.
Historically traffic and net contracts slow down just before Thanksgiving and remain slow through the first couple of weeks in January.
As we sit today we are optimistic that the reality of higher new home prices and higher mortgage rates will have settled in and that home buyers will once again be in the market to buy homes during the spring selling season.
Over the long term household formations the primary driver of housing demand will return to normalized levels and should ultimately lead to increased demand for new homes.
As such we remain convinced that we're still in the early stages of housing recovery.
Wrapping up the discussion about sales pace.
We ended the year with annual net contracts per community of 30.7 which you can see on Slide #6.
This is a 9% increase over fiscal '12 and a 44% increase over fiscal '11.
These are solid increases but at just over 30 net contracts per community it's still a ways off from normal which would be about 40 net contracts per community in the mid 40s actually.
You can see that on the left-hand portion of the slide that the average for '97 through '02 neither boom nor bust period was 44 net contracts per community.
So there's still a lot of room for substantial improvement here.
On Slide 7 we show you that for the prior 12 months we were still selling more homes per community than most of our peers.
Lately we are successful in growing our community count particularly in the back half of fiscal '13.
Slide 8 shows a positive trend in our consolidated community count.
Each quarter during fiscal '13 our consolidated community count grew.
For the full year our community count increased by approximately 12%.
It wasn't as simple as opening up 20 additional communities.
We opened 91 communities during the fiscal year and closed out of 71 communities.
For the past 6 quarters the number of net additions to our lot count have exceeded the number of deliveries by 7 100 lots as you can see on Slide #9.
Here you can see that the last 2 quarters in particular the net additions have more than doubled the number of deliveries that we've had.
The plan for each of those new communities is to get them up and running as soon as practical.
Our land acquisition departments remain busy and have been very busy throughout the country and the year as better home prices and sales paces have resulted in higher land residuals creating more willing sellers.
We feel that we're well positioned as we head into fiscal '14.
On Slide 10 we show that our year-over-year backlog dollars increased 14.3% and that our backlog in units increased 11.5%.
Our growth in community count gives us the confidence that our revenues will grow in fiscal '14 even with flat sales pace per community.
Needless to say a return to a more robust sales pace will only enhance our growth opportunities.
This combined with our growth in backlog and the composition of our backlog gives us confidence that we will be able to grow both our top line and our bottom line again in fiscal '14.
We are continuing to review unmothballing many of our communities as well.
This would add additional stimulus to our growth.
I'll now turn it over to Larry to go through some of the data points that we typically give on our calls.
Thanks Ara.
Let me start with the discussion about our gross margin trends.
The addition of newly identified communities is a major reason that our gross margins continued to improve.
Slide 11 shows that the gross margin for the past 11 quarters as you can see the gross margin improvements have been steady.
Below each bar we show the percentage of deliveries from newly identified communities.
Our newly identified communities have a gross -- have gross margins that are in a more normalized range or even exceeds our normal range in some communities where we've been able to raise home prices.
During the third quarter we achieved normal gross margin levels for the first time in 6 years.
Due to our ability to increase home prices we reported a gross margin of 22.6% during the fourth quarter of 2013 which is slightly in excess of our normal range.
Given the seasonal falloff in deliveries that will occur during our first quarter and the fact that we have some fixed cost and construction overhead component of our cost of goods sold we anticipate reporting a gross margin for the first quarter of fiscal 2014 that is lower than what we have reported for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013 but one that likely exceeds the gross margin we reported in the first quarter of fiscal 2013.
Excluding any impact from future home price changes it is likely that our gross margins will remain in the normal range of 20% to 21% for fiscal 2014.
Based on a higher backlog and community count we are confident that excluding any expenses related to early retirement of debt fiscal 2014 should result in greater levels of profitability for the full year.
Excluding any expenses related to early retirement of debt we expect the first quarter of 2014 to improve in virtually all metrics including profitability compared to last year's first quarter.
However due to seasonally low delivery volume we expect to report a loss in the first quarter of 2014.
Although we are confident that 2014 should be more profitable than 2013 similar to our historical trends we expect most of the increases in profitability to occur during the second half of the year.
Turning to Slide 12.
We continue to make good progress on leveraging our total SG&amp;A expense.
On this slide we show total SG&amp;A as a percentage of total revenues.
Here we show 2011 in gray each quarter of 2012 is in yellow and 2013 in blue.
Below each of these bars we show the absolute dollar amount of our total SG&amp;A for each quarter.
Prior to the fourth quarter of 2013 SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenues had declined in each of the past 7 quarters on a year-over-year basis.
During the fourth quarter fiscal 2013 our total SG&amp;A dollars increased to $63 million compared to $56 million during the third quarter of fiscal 2013.
Of note the dollar amount of our fourth quarter SG&amp;A included $8.5 million of unusually large charges.
Without those charges our SG&amp;A ratio for the 4th quarter of fiscal 2013 would have been 9.2% which is lower than last year's fourth quarter of 10%.
As we do every year on our fourth quarter we conducted an actuarial study to determine if we have sufficient construction defect reserves.
We did not have any material changes in 2012 to those reserves.
However in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013 the study resulted in an increase to our reserves of about $6.5 million.
Keep in mind from a cash flow perspective these reserves are used over an extended period of time not necessarily at the time we make the change.
The remainder of the increase was primarily related to a receivable related to a prior year land sale.
We do anticipate making continued improvement in our SG&amp;A percentages during 2014.
However as we continue to grow the absolute level of SG&amp;A dollar spent will increase over the run rate of fiscal 2013.
On Slide 13 we show our annual total SG&amp;A ratio as a percentage of total revenues.
For all of fiscal 2013 the SG&amp;A ratio was 11.9% which is much improved from the depths of the housing downturn and is approaching normalized levels.
We consider approximately 10% as a normalized SG&amp;A ratio.
As we continue to generate revenue growth we expect to be able to leverage our fixed SG&amp;A expenses further and get this ratio back to a normalized level.
We remain extremely focused on controlling new land parcels.
On Slide 14 we show that since January 2009 we've controlled 33 900 lots in 542 communities.
At the end of fiscal 2013 there are still about 22 500 of those newly controlled lots remaining at attractive land values for our future deliveries.
The right-hand side of this slide shows there were 4 500 total gross additions during the fourth quarter and that we walked away from about 700 newly identified lots.
The net results for the 4th quarter was that our total lots purchased or controlled since January 2009 increased by about 3 800 lots sequentially from the third quarter of fiscal 2013.
Turning now to Slide 15.
You'll see our owned and optioned land position broken out by publicly reported segments.
At the end of the fourth quarter 86% of our optioned lots are newly identified lots.
Excluding mothballed lots 79% of our total lots are newly identified lots.
Our investment and land option deposits was $79 million in October 31 2013 with $78 million in cash deposits and $1 million of deposits being held by letters of credit.
Additionally we have another $9 million invested in predevelopment expenses.
Turning now to Slide 16 we show our mothballed lots broken out by geographic segment.
In total we have about 6 500 mothballed lots within 50 communities that were mothballed as of the end of October 2013.
The book value at the end of the fourth quarter for these remaining mothballed lots was $116 million net of an impairment balance of $432 million.
We're carrying these mothballed lots at 21% of their original value.
Since 2009 we've unmothballed approximately 3 600 lots within 63 communities.
As home prices continue to rise we expect to unmothball additional communities as we move forward.
Every quarter we review each of our mothballed communities to see if they're ready to be put back into production.
The combination of our 22 500 remaining newly identified lots and the 6 500 mothballed lots provides us approximately 29 000 lots at very attractive land values for future deliveries.
Looking at all of our consolidated communities in the aggregate including mothballed communities we have an inventory book value of $1.1 billion net of $620 million of impairments.
We've recorded those impairments on 86 of our communities.
For the properties that have been impaired we are carrying them at 20% of their pre-impaired value.
Another area of discussion for the quarter is related to our current deferred tax asset valuation allowance.
At the end of fiscal 2013 the valuation allowance in the aggregate was $927 million.
Our valuation allowance is a very significant asset not currently reflected on our balance sheet and we've taken numerous steps to protect it.
We expect to be able to reverse this allowance after we generate consecutive years of solid profitability and continue to prevent -- project solid profitability going forward.
We were profitable for all -- for our full fiscal 2013 year.
As we said for the last 2 quarters if current market trends continue in fiscal 2014 we are optimistic that we could reverse the vast majority of our valuation allowance in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014.
When the reversal does occur it will be added back to our shareholders' equity further strengthening our balance sheet.
At the end of the year we had total shareholders deficit of $433 million.
If you add back the total valuation allowance as we've done on Slide 17 then our shareholders' equity would be a positive $494 million.
While we have no intentions of issuing equity anytime soon we could issue approximately 100 million of additional shares of Hovnanian common stock for cash without limiting our ability to utilize our net operating losses.
Let me reiterate that the tax asset valuation allowance is for GAAP purposes only.
For tax purposes our tax assets may be carried forward for 20 years from occurrence and we expect to utilize those tax loss carryforwards as we generate profits in the future.
We will not have to pay federal income taxes on approximately the next $2 billion of future pretax profits.
Now let me update you on our mortgage operations.
Turning to Slide 18 you can see that the credit quality of our mortgage customers continues to remain strong with average FICO scores of 746.
For all of fiscal 2013 our mortgage company captured 71% of our non-cash home buying customers.
Turning to Slide 19 we show a breakout of all the various loan types originated by our mortgage operations for fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012.
21.5% of originations were for FHA loans during fiscal 2013 compared to 27.8% we saw during fiscal '12 and the 34.1% we saw for FHA during fiscal 2011.
Certainly our use of FHA mortgage clearly has been declining.
At the same time we saw our conforming conventional originations increase to 62.7% during fiscal '13 compared to 53.7% for '12 and 47.1% during '11.
Now turning to our debt maturity ladder which can be found on Slide 20.
We ended the year with $374 million of liquidity which includes about $49 million undrawn on our $75 million unsecured revolving line of credit.
In September we did a small offering taking $42 million of our 2014 maturities and tacking them onto notes due in 2016.
The red bars on this slide represent our unsecured debt.
We have a lot of runway in front of us before any debt comes due.
Just after the quarter ended we were pleased to announce that we increased our land banking arrangement with GSO by $150 million which brings the total since July 2012 to $400 million.
All of the land related to the first $250 million has been purchased by GSO which totals approximately 2 500 lots.
At fiscal 2013 year end we had about 1 900 GSO lots remaining which we have the option to take down over the next 4 years.
Furthermore we have already begun to identify new land parcels to fill the $150 million increase.
In addition we've identified other firms that are interested in beginning a land banking relationship with us as well.
As seen on Slide 21 our strong liquidity position combined with our strategy of utilizing lot option contracts land banking arrangements and non-recourse property-specific financings clearly demonstrate we have the ability to grow.
Even after we spent $125 million on land and land development during the fourth quarter we ended fiscal 2013 with $374 million in liquidity which is significantly higher than the $279 million we had at the end of the third quarter.
We ended the year above the $245 million upper end of our targeted liquidity range of $170 million to $245 million.
We feel good about our liquidity position.
And if we find sufficient new land parcels that meet our underwriting hurdle rates we would remain comfortable even if liquidity was at the lower end of our target range.
Finally over the past couple of years we've been explaining to investors that we believe we would be able to increase our inventory turnover rate which will allow us to grow the company even if we did not increase our capital position.
On Slide 22 you can clearly see the progress we've made on this front during the past year.
The first bar shows our inventory turnover rate at 2.1x in fiscal 2002 before the boom and bust of the industry.
The next 2 bars indicate our turnover rates during fiscal 2011 and '12.
We increased our inventory turnover rate to 1.1x in fiscal '11 to 1.4x during fiscal '12.
Looking at the right-hand side of the slide you'll see that for fiscal '13 our inventory turnover rate increased further to 1.7x.
We believe our historical turnover rates in excess of 2x will be achievable again in the future.
All in all we are delighted with the progress at the early stages of this homebuilding industry recovery.
We continue to see land acquisition opportunities that make solid economic returns and opportunities to grow both our top and bottom lines while producing respectable gross margins and bottom line returns.
2014 should be another significant step in our recovery.
That concludes our formal remarks and we'll be happy to open it up for Q&amp;A now.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I had a question on -- first question on the gross margins.
Appreciate the color there and some of the guidance.
And just trying to get a sense when you talk about fiscal '14 gross margins in the 20% to 21% range versus 22.6% in 4Q recognizing there's some seasonality there how are you thinking about that in terms of the back half of the year versus the back half of this past year with regards to incentives and perhaps home price inflation leveling-out versus any potential rise in land cost that you might see flow through? I mean I would start by just saying that the guidance or indication we gave you where we expect gross margins assume no changes in market conditions from what they are right this minute Mike if that helps you.
And apply any cost increases and took any home price appreciation and just kind of current conditions stay stable.
Research Division</strong> I guess what I was also getting at was you mentioned that you've increased incentives in roughly 10% of your communities.
That had likely some positive impact in the most recent month or 2.
As you look into next year how are you...
sorry...
Next year [indiscernible] We're in 2014 I think that's what you're talking about.
Research Division</strong> Yes I'm sorry in calendar '14 as you look to the spring selling season do you anticipate additional perhaps strategic adjustments on incentives to continue some of the momentum you've seen? No.
Mike this is Ara.
We're definitely seeing the market firm up a little bit.
Having said that it's a quiet time of the year as you know so you can't read too much into it.
But at the moment the market has definitely gotten a little stronger.
So I would not foresee a strategic increase in incentives at this time.
Your next question comes from the line of Ivy Zelman of Zelman &amp; Associates.
LLC</strong> It's actually Alan on for Ivy.
Next quarter -- Ara I was -- I know it's a seasonally slow time of year but I was hoping you can give a little bit of color on your traffic trends and I guess specifically thinking about it in the communities where you've seen those increased incentives.
Has that served as any type of catalyst for either increased traffic or better conversion rates? And just on a year-over-year basis are you still looking at the positive comps on a traffic standpoint? I mean traffic didn't slow much even when we saw sales slow in the summer and early fall.
Conversion rates fell a bit but the traffic has been relatively stable on a seasonal basis.
LLC</strong> Got it.
So then in terms of the incentives can you kind of frame that in terms of either a percentage of base price or talk a little bit about the structure of the incentives? Are they more geared towards spec product or are they across-the-board in the communities? And how have you kind of thought about laying that out either in the form of option upgrades financing type of incentives? Where have you seen the most positive feedback from consumers? Okay well first of all keep in perspective I know there's a lot of attention and interest in incentives but again we only increased them in about 10% of our communities.
90% of our communities we really saw no change at all.
Having said that we did generally bias incentives toward specs where we had specs.
In general we're running a little lower on specs than in the past and probably would like to increase headcount just a little bit but it's been challenging getting construction to catch up in this environment.
And the types of incentives really vary all over the place.
Our divisions have full autonomy in deciding how to approach incentives and it's very micro-specific in terms of their strategies.
It just depends on what the competitors are doing in that exact local market and what they feel would be the most impactful for them whether it be free upgrades whether it be increased closing costs.
They're really free to decide and the incentives are all over the place.
The other thing just to keep in mind is we're -- there is a lot of turnover in our communities.
So just this past year demonstrates that with 91 new communities and 71 closing out.
So there's always a change.
Overall we're feeling very good about the direction and stability of pricing right now.
Your next question comes from the line of Nishu Sood of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Going up the chart you talked about inventory turns.
There has been some impressive progress in that regard.
I was looking -- thinking looking ahead to '14.
If conditions remain stable and we're in an environment where volume growth is mainly coming from increased community count as opposed to absorptions is that sort of environment still one where you can increase inventory turnover? Or does the inventory turnover improvement really depend mostly upon increasing absorptions per community? It's a combination of factors.
Certainly if you don't have any improvement in pace per community inventory turns improvement is harder to come by.
But we didn't have strong improvements in pace per community that reflect the improvement that we've made in our inventory turns over the past few years.
So it's more than just pace per community.
And just for example just the average size of our community and getting rid of -- getting a higher percentage of our deliveries coming from newly identified communities versus legacy communities is -- improves that drag from the legacy communities as well.
So there's a whole bunch of factors that go into it including how we're structuring our land purchases.
What's the size of the communities the way that we've used options and land banking arrangements.
All of that adds to our ability to increase inventory turns.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And community count growth I'm sorry I'm -- I didn't -- I may have missed it but did you mention a community count growth target for next year? No.
But I think it's safe to say we're working hard to make sure that it continues to grow.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And speaking of your -- the different ways you've been purchasing land the GSO agreement going from $250 million I think you mentioned to $400 million.
Typically those sorts of arrangements have -- are accompanied by some dilution to gross margin but that doesn't seem to have been the case for you folks.
You've had a very nice gross margin trend the past year too.
So I was just wondering is it -- has it been in there or just been masked by the stronger backdrop of new communities and home prices rising? Or are there certain sorts of communities that you're putting into these -- into the land banking arrangements which may be more well suited and so the gross margin dilution isn't as great? So how has that -- how are we not seeing that come through more? What we've been saying fairly consistency -- consistently over multiple multiple quarters as we've entered into these agreements with GSO is that it would be hard for you to see the impact on gross margins because it's such a tiny percentage of our quarterly deliveries.
Again -- forget what it was -- 1 900 remaining lots that are -- we have the option to take down over the next 4 years.
So if you kind of take that on a quarterly basis it's just a tiny amount of our quarterly deliveries each quarter.
So there is some dilutive impact if you look at those what the margins would have been had we paid cash for the lots versus doing a land banking arrangement but it is accretive to our return on capital deployed pretty dramatically but I just don't think you'll ever see -- you'll never be able to model and you'll never notice the impact of gross margin dilution from our land banking arrangements.
Yes.
The only other thing I'd add is we typically use land banking arrangements on the larger communities with longer lives.
Those communities typically have much higher gross margins to begin with.
They have to in order to get their IRRs to pencil to meet our hurdle rates.
So given that they're pretty high gross margins to begin with entering into a land banking arrangement with those still typically leaves you with a higher-than-normal gross margin.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Oppenheim of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Was wondering if you can talk a little bit about land.
It looks as though during the quarter the land additions were really in the Midwest and the Southeast.
Does that reflect your view of the values in those markets? And then secondly wondering about the West where there wasn't so much of an addition.
Are you looking at some of the mothballed lots there thinking they'll become unmothballed soon enough so that now they're looking for land right now? Just some color on that.
Sure.
Well first of all we have generally been sticking to our discipline where we do not factor in appreciation into our land acquisition decisions.
What that's meant on the West Coast in particular is that we were outbid in some of our land acquisition efforts there.
Looking backwards that was probably an overly conservative stance and we lost out on opportunities in an appreciating market.
Over the long term we still think that's the right discipline to stay on the conservative side there.
But we're not consciously looking to shrink down in that marketplace.
We do and we are seeing some new opportunities coming up now and we think we'll have better opportunities for success.
We do have a disproportionately large amount of our mothballed lots on the West Coast thankfully and that market has been appreciating nicely.
So that will help us with our growth but nonetheless we are focused on increasing our land acquisition on the West Coast.
Yes.
And I would say with respect to the Midwest even though this particular quarter maybe we had a disproportionate increase there.
I don't have the numbers right in front of me Dan.
I would say we're willing to buy in any of our markets where we can meet our unleveraged hurdle rate requirements.
So it's not a conscious decision to shift the investment to the Midwest.
I mean we've been just as happy investing in any of our existing markets as long as they bring us deals that meet our hurdle rate requirements.
Your next question comes from the line of David Goldberg of UBS.
Research Division</strong> My first question it kind of maybe follows upon Dan's question a little bit but it's really about the underwriting and some of the volatility that we had in the housing market in 2013.
And given the price appreciation that we saw have you guys actually thought about maybe doing some more sensitivity analysis on the downside when you're buying lots maybe raising hurdle rates a little bit? Just given that there's so much uncertainty heading into 2014 especially around prices it just feels like it's easy to get out over your skis at this point a little bit.
So maybe can you just kind of maybe talk about how you're thinking about hurdle rates and whether we need to be a little bit more conservative on the price side in the analysis? Well we generally underwrite to a minimum 20% IRR.
That includes all overheads other than corporate but that's an unlevered IRR.
We feel that's an appropriate low -- spot to be in.
And in fact many exceed that minimum IRR in our acquisition opportunities.
Frankly if we raise the threshold beyond that we would not be very active and that would be more painful at the moment.
But we're -- in general we're confident about the direction of the market.
We think there is a better opportunity for upside than downside.
But we've been sticking to our guns at 20% hurdle rates and we think that gives us protection sufficient protection on the downside.
In addition because we underwrite based on then-current absorption rates then-current construction costs then-current home prices what happened in the late summer and fall where we saw absorption rates fall or home prices decline that was built into any new land deals that we're talking to.
So our criteria although it remains the same constantly adjusts for what's going on in the marketplace on a real-time basis.
Research Division</strong> Of course.
And then just as a follow-up question I was wondering if we could get a little bit more detail into the increase on the actuarial on the warranty reserves.
I would assume that there was some claim history that suggests that you needed to reserve more on a go-forward basis.
Was there a specific vintage of construction or a specific region or something that kind of drove that? I know in '12 you guys didn't have to change the reserves.
Now in -- at the end of this year there was a change.
And just give maybe some more color on what really drove that.
Yes.
It's 10 years' worth of claim history and that's what we do and consistently apply it each and every year.
I wouldn't say that there's any particular single claim that came into play to drive that.
It just from one year to the next shifted the numbers a bit.
Yes.
In general regarding geographic concentrations of -- New Jersey and California tend to be the disproportionate overweighting locations from our defect and warranty costs.
It's -- those are both fairly litigious environments.
The other thing is that most of the expenses today relate to homes that were built way back in '05 or '04 or '06 where we were building 5x or 4x as many homes as today.
So the impact is a little more pronounced when you compare it to our lower volume today as we're at the early stages of the recovery.
So you get a little bit more volatility.
But hopefully we're at the right spot in our reserve amounts right now.
Research Division</strong> But it's fair to conclude just to make sure I understand it's not a subcontractor-specific issue it's not a water intrusion issue it's kind of more widespread than that.
Yes I think that's true.
I would say maybe there were more expenses related to some old stucco claims perhaps as many builders experienced in the past.
But generally speaking there was not a specific issue.
It's pretty widespread and not concentrated in any particular community.
Your next question comes from the line of Joel Locker of FBN Security (sic) [Securities].
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just -- I guess I was looking at your November orders.
How many of those were joint ventures? Jeff do you got it there? I know we'll put it out after the call but I don't...
We'll put it out after the call.
We don't have it right at our fingertips.
Yes.
But I would say in general the number of joint ventures has been shrinking a bit not consciously.
We actually have some great partners that would like to do more joint ventures.
We're just not seeing as many opportunities on the joint venture front in terms of larger transactions that would warrant a joint venture.
So we're still out there looking and we're hopeful we'll see some more opportunities there.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And the second question on community count I guess.
It looks like you opened up several communities in November already based on the 1.8 absorptions on the 382.
And just wanted to get your take on how many communities you're going to open in 2014 and how many you did in November.
We're going to try to grow.
We're not going to make a projection.
It's a very difficult number to project because you're not sure exactly how many you're going to close out.
You're not sure whether you're going to have some regulatory delays on opening new ones and that type of thing.
So it's probably the most difficult number for a builder to precisely project but we are working hard to ensure that it grows during fiscal '14.
Yes.
I mean in general over the next 2 years we are planning to grow and we're not projecting increased sales pace.
So we're projecting to increase our community count.
We're hoping we get a little sales pace increase on top of that and can grow even faster than our budgets.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But there's no range for '14 I guess for -- first for openings perhaps? Nothing [indiscernible] no.
Your next question comes from the line of Adam Rudiger of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> This is Joey Matthews on for Adam.
Wondering if you could talk about your increase in optioned lots over the past year.
They're up about 42%.
So I'm wondering if you could give us a rough split of -- of the split between options to buy developed land or finished lots versus raw undeveloped lots.
Well the silence -- none of us have that number off the top of our head either.
Yes we'll have to follow up on that one.
It's just not something we track very regularly.
Not on that basis.
Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> No problem.
Wondering if you could kind of describe the competitive environment for construction labor right now and how you expect it to unfold this spring selling season and which -- if -- maybe which subcontractors in particular you see as particularly tight or competitive.
Yes.
The subcontracting trades [ph] that are particularly tight are all of them...
Right yes.
Depending on the market it's a different one.
Yes.
But as you can imagine with the market growing from its lows as much as it has there has been strain on the market.
On the whole I think in the beginning the subcontractors were hesitant to add additional labor having just been through such a tough downturn.
I think as they're gaining competence and their own balance sheets are improving they're slowly making the commitments to hires that are helping.
That being said I'd say I wouldn't expect dramatic improvement over the next year nor would I expect it to get worse.
The market is projected to continue its gradual trend of improvement and I think the labor force just a guess is going to keep up with that.
I don't see it getting a lot better or a lot worse.
It's just going to kind of move with the overall improvement.
I mean just anecdotal comments from our business units is -- in recent months they're admitting for the first time that maybe it's actually extending their construction build cycle time modestly in certain markets because they're struggling with one trade or another.
So I think it's just further indication that it's real.
It's hard to quantify.
We like the modest growth industry recovery better than the rocket ship superfast recovery for the industry because we think one of the biggest barriers to growth is the limit on trained high-quality labor.
And the last thing we want to do is use a apprentice to start building our houses and have reserve -- or have warranty reserve issues.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
Can I slip in another question since my optioned lots question got shot down? The trends in floor plan sizes I know when interest rates were low there was a trend to size up.
Have you noticed any recent trend to the downside due to the higher interest rates and possibly limited -- more limited purchasing power among your customers? Yes in general I'd say the homes are still much larger.
The ones that are in-demand still tend to be on the larger end of our range in all of our locations and certainly much higher than they've been trending over -- than they've been over the last 5 years.
There has been a little calming-down of what I'd call the hotel homes the mini hotels.
I mean it was an odd phenomenon where markets that were used to selling 2 500-square-foot homes started selling 4 500-square-foot homes.
They were very big econo boxes that became very popular for a while but that's died down a little bit.
Nonetheless the home sizes definitely are on the larger size and I don't see that changing dramatically.
I think it's -- will be a gradual reduction down as rates slowly creep up.
Your next question comes from the line of Megan McGrath of MKM Partners.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up on gross margins just a quick modeling question here.
It looks like your capitalized interest ended the year about 3.5% of COGS.
What's your expectation for where that's going to trend next year? I don't think we've made any public projection on that as well.
I just follow the trend...
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on a different topic there's been a lot of talk lately on sort of what's happening in terms of mortgage credit availability higher prices should be helping but then we've got QM kicking in in the beginning of the year.
So any color you can provide on changes you're seeing there and expectations into next year? Again qualified individuals with decent credit scores and jobs we have no problem getting people qualified.
For the people that have some blemishes on their credit it's hard.
But that hasn't been a change.
And I don't think the things that you're citing are going to be a material impact.
I think Congress will be smart enough not to really reign in mortgage availability such to a point that it shuts down the housing industry whether it be used houses or new houses because it'll have such a huge negative impact on the U.S.
economy.
So I just don't think anything too negative will be allowed to occur.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Barrón of Housing Research Center.
LLC</strong> I was hoping you could elaborate a little bit on the gross margin improvement this quarter and then on your comment that gross margins are going to be down again next quarter.
Is that due to some type of gross margin leverage? Or was there some type of product type or geographic impact that caused the bump-up this quarter? I mean for the first quarter specifically similar to what happened last year's first quarter when we had a decline in gross margins in the first quarter of '13 versus the fourth quarter of '12 it's purely the fixed cost component of certain overheads in COGS that did that.
We told you that at the time.
And then you could see the rebound that we had in subsequent quarters where we returned to higher volume.
You're going to see that again in the first quarter of '14 compared to the fourth quarter of '13.
Yes.
It seems counterintuitive because gross margin you wouldn't think would be affected by volume.
But construction overhead is an important part.
And as first quarter in the middle of the winter as we are right now we don't have as many deliveries but we're preparing and gearing up for the spring selling season so you get the double whammy: we're incurring some more costs and have fewer homes to offset that.
And that does on that one component of overhead affect gross margin in the first quarter.
Now we actually put a slide together when we did the Analyst Call for the First Quarter of '13 that broke that out to where you could see what direct margin was without that impact that direct margins from the first quarter versus the fourth quarter of -- first quarter of '13 versus the fourth quarter of '12 actually went up but gross margins went down because of that fixed component of overheads.
So you might want to look at that or call Jeff he could send it to you if you want but that's really what happened.
And it's going to happen again.
LLC</strong> The other question I guess has to do with the trend in the ASP.
Obviously it looks like it keeps going higher.
And even this quarter both sequentially and year-over-year looked to me like most regions were higher.
So is that due to the fact that you guys continuing to increase prices? Or are you guys just seeing a higher mix shift towards bigger homes? Yes to all of the above.
But if you look at the breakout in contract dollars amount for the last quarter you'd see the biggest increases in California.
And while mix has been a factor in California in particular we had some very aggressive price increases there.
So there was a lot of price appreciation there that was not due to mix.
That was just due to raw increases in price.
That's part of the reason why we saw a sales price -- sales pace decrease there even with flat community count.
But we think that's leveled off right now.
LLC</strong> And so is that still happening like in -- in the most recent quarter you guys are still raising prices? Or have you kind of...
No...
No [indiscernible].
There were probably some instances where we had price increases but it was a minority of instances.
And certainly there's 10% of our communities where we decreased net sales prices as we've talked about earlier.
So this shift you're seeing is mainly mix rather than home price appreciation.
Yes when I referred to the quarter I really meant the statistics that are in our release and it just compared our most recent quarter the fourth quarter to the same quarter last year.
And in California we're up over 41% and a lot of that amazingly was pure price increases.
[Operator Instructions] And your next question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to circle back if I could for a moment to the gross margins again.
You had mentioned that -- I believe you said that for the first quarter while it should be down sequentially it should likely be up year-over-year.
And given the strong amount of year-over-year improvement that we've seen over the past 2 or 3 quarters I was wondering if I -- and maybe I'm just reading into language a little bit too much but why would it be more likely that there maybe wouldn't be stronger language you use that it would appear that -- given the trend that you're seeing that it would be more de facto that you should see improvement.
I'll part the words [ph] that carefully is probably the answer.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ara Hovnanian for the closing remarks.
Well thank you very much.
We're obviously pleased with both the quarter and the full year results and we'll look forward to reporting an even better fiscal '14.
Thank you.
Okay this concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you all for participating and have a nice day.
All parties may now disconnect.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for the Hovnanian Enterprises Fiscal 2014 First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
An archive of the webcast will be available after the completion of the call and run for 12 months.
This conference is being recorded for rebroadcast and all participants are currently in a listen-only mode.
Management will make some opening remarks about the first quarter's results and then open the line for questions.
The company will also be webcasting a slide presentation along with the opening comments from management.
The slides are available on the investor's page of the company's website at www.khov.com.
Those listeners who would like to follow along should log onto the website at this time.
Before we begin I would like to turn the call over to your host for today Jeff O'Keefe Vice President Investor Relations.
Jeff please go ahead.
Thank you.
Before we get started I would like to quickly read through our forward-looking statements.
All statements in this conference call that are not historical facts should be considered as forward-looking statements.
Such statements involve known and unknown risks uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results performance or achievements of the company to be materially different from any future results performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements.
Although we believe that our plans intentions and expectations reflected in or suggested by such forward-looking statements are reasonable we can give no assurance that such plans intentions or expectations will be achieved.
Such risks uncertainties and other factors include but are not limited to changes in general and local economic industry and business conditions and impacts of the sustained homebuilding downturn; adverse weather and other environmental conditions and natural disasters; changes in market conditions and seasonality of the company's business; changes in home prices and sales activity in the markets where the company builds homes; government regulation including regulations concerning development of land the homebuilding sales and customer financing processes tax laws and the environment; fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of mortgage financing; shortages in and price fluctuations of raw materials and labor; the availability and cost of suitable land and improved lots; levels of competition; availability of financing to the company; utility shortages and outages or rate fluctuations; levels of indebtedness and restrictions on the company's operations and activities imposed by the agreements governing the company's outstanding indebtedness; the company's sources of liquidity; changes in credit ratings; availability of net operating loss carryforwards; operations through joint ventures with third parties; product liability litigation warranty claims and claims made by mortgage investors; successful identification and integration of acquisitions; significant influence of the company's controlling stockholders; changes in tax laws affecting the after-tax costs of owning a home; geopolitical risks terrorist acts and other acts of war; and other factors described in detail on the company's annual report on the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31 2013 and subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Except as otherwise required by applicable securities laws we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events changed circumstances or any other reason.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ara Hovnanian our Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer.
Thanks Jeff and thank you all for participating in this morning's call to review the results of our first quarter ended January 14.
Joining me today from the company are Larry Sorsby Executive Vice President and CFO; Brad O'Connor Vice President Chief Accounting Officer and Corporate Controller; David Valiaveedan Vice President of Finance and Treasurer; and Jeff O'Keefe Vice President of Investor Relations.
Let's start with Slide number 3; this slide highlighting our key operating metrics shows the results for our first quarter were mixed.
In the upper left hand quadrant you can see that we had slightly higher revenues during the first quarter 2014 than we did last year but due to a shortfall in our deliveries revenues did not grow as much as we had anticipated.
The shortfall in deliveries was caused by numerous factors.
First we were impacted by a slower than anticipated sales pace that continued through the fall and early winter.
Second extreme cold weather including ice and snowstorms across many of our operations delayed construction.
Third construction labor shortages in many of our markets have extended the construction cycles and that caused us to miss certain first quarter deliveries; and finally with only 60 days notice our primary national cabinet supplier shut down distribution in Houston Dallas and Phoenix markets that represented about a third of our deliveries.
The cabinet supplier also served numerous other builders which caused replacement cabinets from other distributors to be late as well especially in Houston our largest market.
This interruption of cabinet supply caused us a few further delays and deliveries; clearly it was a challenging beginning of the new year.
Moving to the upper right hand quadrant our homebuilding gross margin improved a 180 basis points from last year's first quarter.
Looking at the lower left hand portion of the slide you can see that our interest as a percentage of total revenues improved year-over-year.
We were pleased with the improvements we had in these two metrics.
Our SG&amp;A ratio can also be seen in the lower left hand quadrant of this slide.
Seasonally the first quarter is our slowest delivery quarter and is the toughest quarter in which to leverage our fixed SG&amp;A costs.
Last year we positioned the company so we could grow both our community count and our revenues.
To prepare for that growth we increased staffing levels by 13% over the past year related to our increased community count and delivery volume increases.
However the shortfall in the first quarter revenues caused our SG&amp;A ratio to be high.
Although our total SG&amp;A dollars declined sequentially from the fourth quarter of 2013 our SG&amp;A percentage of revenues increased year-over-year.
We are optimistic that as we start generating deliveries from our new communities and increase revenues in our stronger seasonal quarters we will be able to return our SG&amp;A ratio to more normalized levels.
Finally in the lower right hand quadrant you can see that our year-over-year backlog dollars increased 11.4% to $904 million in this year's first quarter from $812 million last year.
This increase in backlog combined with the slight growth in revenues in the first quarter gives us the confidence that we will be able to grow our total revenue for fiscal 2014.
Moving on to net contracts on Slide 5 the dollar value of net contracts in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 at $456 million just missed last year's level of $463 million.
For the first quarter of 2014 the number of net contracts decreased slightly to 1 202 from 1 344 in last year's first quarter although our average sales price continue to grow.
On Slide 5 we show that the dollar amount of net contracts per month over the past three years.
Starting on the left hand side of this slide we circle the months of January through June when we saw strong year-over-year increases in the dollar amount of net contracts in 2013.
Unfortunately that trend reversed itself during the months of July through September which we've highlighted in red.
Things began to improve again in October which matched the previous year and in November which exceeded the previous year we highlighted these months in green but the volatility continued with December through February showing negative comparisons and we circled that in red.
We are taking steps to increase our sales pace during the spring selling season in order to further improve our revenues in this year and we will discuss that more fully in a moment.
Let me take a step back here and put this recent volatility of our sales pace into historical perspective.
On Slide 6 we show the seasonally adjusted annual rate of new home sales during the recovery of last major housing downturn in 1991.
After a difficult 1991 new home sales appear to pick up at the beginning of 1992 but then fell off again during the spring season although it picked back up again the summer and then to decline again the first few months of 1993.
The recovery finally gained steady momentum after that.
You can look back at other recovery cycles and find similar choppy trends.
The point we are making is that the road to recovery is often choppy and we believe the same sort of uneven recovery is what we have experienced since late last summer.
On Slide 7 in our effort to be completely granular and transparent we show our weekly net contracts since the beginning of the year.
As is typical you can see that our weekly net contract started off slowly in the month of January with only 71 net contracts in the first week.
We then gradually ramped up throughout the month of January.
As is typical seasonally the month of February was much stronger than January.
Our typical seasonal pattern would be for March to be stronger than February and April to be stronger than March and in fact April is typically the best month of not only the spring selling season but of the full year.
Slide 8 shows net contracts per community on a monthly basis compared to the previous year.
The good news is that sales both on a net contract per community and on an absolute basis did pick up sequentially from December to January to February although the seasonal pickup is typically expected.
What was a bit disappointing was that our sales level did not reach the same levels we saw leading up to last year's spring selling season which was a resounding success.
As indicated by the declines in the NAHB Sentiment Index and in the U.S.
housing starts reported two weeks ago the homebuilding industry's recovery has been choppy during the past few months.
This was evident in the declines in net contracts per community reported by the Public Homebuilders that reported their December quarter-end results.
On Slide 9 we show how our year-to-year change in net contracts per community for the three months ended in December stacked up against our peers.
Here you see that we are right in the middle of the pack but unfortunately most of the pack had negative comparisons with the median reporting at 9.7% quarterly decline in contracts per community.
Looking at this from a slightly different perspective on Slide 10 we look at net contracts per community for our company and our peers for the trailing 12 months.
Once again we are in the middle of our pack averaging 29.6 contracts per community.
We assume that everyone is a little disappointed with the sales pace at this point in the recovery.
Turning to Slide 11 in response to the choppier sales we launched a national sales campaign we call Big Deal Days this past weekend.
This campaign is focused primarily on started unsold homes which we refer to as quick move-in homes.
We are not increasing incentives on all homes or even on all homes in any particular community for that matter.
What we are doing is doing minor adjustments on incentives during the month of March on select homes in order to achieve a little increased sales activity.
We are doing this primarily through additional incentives on started unsold homes and on other specific lots in certain communities.
The additional incentives on these homes average in the range of 1% to 2% of the sales price of the home.
As we discussed on our third and fourth quarter conference calls we feel that the industry including our company has been quite aggressive in raising home prices in many communities last year and possibly contributed to a slower sales base after.
We are optimistic that the little adjustments we are making will spur buyers that were on the fence to go out and buy some of our homes.
Over the long term we continue to believe that household formations the primary driver of housing demand will gradually return to normalized levels and ultimately lead to increased demand for new homes.
When you combine that with the record low levels of housing starts across the nation over the past few years we remain convinced that we are still in the early stages of the housing recovery and that we are experiencing as a temporary bump in the industry's recovery.
Slide 12 shows continuation of the positive trend in our consolidated community count.
For each of the past five quarters our consolidated community count grew sequentially.
During the trailing 12 months we opened 95 communities but closed out 77 older ones.
Our local teams are working hard so that we can open approximately 115 communities this fiscal year.
While it's difficult to predict when certain communities will close out and thus the net community count we are projecting a solid community count growth this year.
Our land spend this quarter was $182 million the highest for any quarter in our previous five years.
As you can see on Slide 13 beginning in the second half of 2012 the number of net additions to our lot count have exceeded the number of deliveries by 7 600 lots.
The plan for each of those new communities is to get them open for sale as soon as possible depending on land development permits and final housing designs.
For the first quarter of 2014 we added 1 600 net additional lots which exceeded our 1 138 total quarterly deliveries in spite of the fact that about 1 500 lots did not survive the scrutiny of our due diligence process.
The 1 500 lots we walked away from during the first quarter is reflective of the discipline we exercise when we underwrite land based on the then current home prices and the then current home selling paces to achieve a 20% plus IRR.
Typically we have a 90-day due diligence process after signing a letter of intent to purchase land.
If during the due diligence process a property doesn't meet our criteria we don't go forward with the land purchase.
Our land acquisition departments remain busy throughout the country and we expect to continue to grow our land position.
Last quarter had an unusually high fall out rate.
We remain underinvested relative to our excess cash balances and our target to hope to get fully invested in the coming quarters.
As we move forward our focus continues to be to find new land opportunities that make sense at the current sales pace and sales prices grow our top line further leverage our fixed costs and achieve higher levels of sustainable profitability.
I will now turn over to Larry Sorsby our Executive Vice President and CFO.
Thanks Ara.
Let me start with a discussion about our gross margin trends.
Slide 14 shows that we have reported year-over-year improvements in gross margin for the past eight quarters including reporting 18.8% for the first quarter this year up 180 basis points compared to the 17% gross margin reported during last year's first quarter.
However our first quarter gross margin percentage has declined sequentially from 22.6% in the fourth quarter of 2013.
A similar sequential decline occurred in the first quarter of 2013 as well.
These sequential declines are primarily the result of spreading certain fixed overhead costs over lower seasonal revenues that typically occur during our first quarter.
On Slide 15 we show the breakout for the components of our gross margin for both the fourth quarter of 2013 and the first quarter of 2014.
Sequential quarterly deliveries excluding unconsolidated joint ventures fell by 36% from 1 608 deliveries during our fourth quarter to 1 036 in our first quarter.
Although our direct margin declined by 140 basis points the largest driver of the 380 basis points sequential decline in our gross margin is that we are spreading certain fixed and direct overhead costs primarily consistent of fixed period costs such as construction overheads service costs and property taxes over lower delivery volumes.
This increase in indirect overheads as a percent of revenues caused our gross margins to decline by approximately 240 basis points.
As our delivery volume increases in the remaining quarters of 2014 indirect overheads as a percentage of homebuilding revenue should come down and our gross margin percentage should increase.
Even though our gross margin increased year-over-year during the first quarter of fiscal 2014 assuming no changes in current market conditions we expect our gross margin for our full fiscal 2014 year to be similar to the 20.1% we reported for all of fiscal 2013.
Turning to Slide 16; today we find ourselves at the crossroads of having heavily invested in future deliveries from new communities but not yet reaping the full sales and delivery volume from these new communities.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2014 our total SG&amp;A dollars decreased sequentially to $60 million compared to $63 million during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013.
However total SG&amp;A in the first quarter of 2014 is up from $49 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2013.
Although we expect our total SG&amp;A dollars to increase in fiscal 2014 we anticipate that our SG&amp;A as a percent of total revenues during 2014 will be similar to the 11.9% we have reported for all of fiscal 2013.
On Slide 17 we show our annual total SG&amp;A ratio as a percentage of total revenues.
We consider approximately 10% as a normalized SG&amp;A ratio.
As we continue to generate revenue growth we expect to be able to leverage our fixed SG&amp;A expenses further and get this ratio back to a normalized level.
Although we had given directional guidance for gross margins and total SG&amp;A given the slow start to the spring selling season we believe that it is too early in the year to provide profitability guidance for the full year.
We still believe that this is the right time to be aggressive on controlling new land parcels.
On Slide 18 we show that since January 2009 we have controlled 35 500 lots and 562 communities.
At January 31 2014 there are still about 23 200 of those newly controlled lots remaining at attractive land values for our future deliveries.
The right hand side of this slide shows that there were 3 100 total gross additions during the first quarter of 2014 and that we walked away from about 1 500 newly identified lots.
These walkaways which occur primarily during the due diligence period resulted in $664 000 of walkaway charges for the quarter.
The net result for the first quarter was that our total lots purchased or controlled since January 2009 increased by about 1 600 sequentially form the first quarter of fiscal 2013.
Turning now to Slide 19 you will see our owned and optioned land position broken out by publicly reported segments.
At the end of the first quarter 89% of our option lots are newly identified lots.
Excluding mothballed lots 80% of our total lots are newly identified lots.
Our investment and land option deposits was $73 million at January 31 2014 with $71 in cash deposits and $2 million of deposits being held by letters of credit.
Additionally we have another $12 million invested in predevelopment expenses.
Turning now to Slide 20; we show our mothballed lots broken out by geographic segment.
In total we have about 6 500 mothballed lots within 50 communities that were mothballed as of January 31 2014.
The book value at the end of the first quarter for these remaining mothballed lots was $116 million net of an impairment balance of $431 million.
We are carrying these mothballed lots at 21% of their original value.
Since 2009 we have unmothballed approximately 3 600 lots within 50 communities.
As home prices continue to rise we expect to unmothball additional communities as we move forward.
Every quarter we review each of our mothballed communities to see if they are ready to be put back into production.
The combination of our 23 200 remaining newly identified lots and the 6 500 mothballed lots provides us approximately 29 700 lots at very attractive land values for our future deliveries.
Looking at all of our consolidated communities in the aggregate including mothballed communities we have an inventory book value of $1.2 billion net of $611 million of impairments.
We recorded those impairments on 85 of our communities.
With the properties that had been impaired we are carrying them at 20% of their pre-impaired value.
Another area of discussion for the quarter is related to our current deferred tax asset valuation allowance.
At the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2014 the valuation allowance in the aggregate was $934 million.
Our valuation allowance is a very significant asset not currently reflected on our balance sheet and we have taken numerous steps to protect it.
We expect to be able to reverse this allowance after we generate consecutive years of profitability and continue to reject solid profitability going forward.
We were profitable for our full 2013 fiscal year.
Provided we are profitable once again in fiscal 2014 we are optimistic that we could reverse the vast majority of our valuation allowance in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014.
When the reversal does occur it will be added back to our shareholders' equity further strengthening our balance sheet.
We ended the first quarter with a total shareholders' deficit of $456 million.
If you add back the total valuation allowance as we have done on Slide 21 then our shareholders' equity will be a positive $478 million.
While we have no intentions of issuing equity any time soon we could issue approximately $120 million of additional shares of Hovnanian common stock for cash without limiting our ability to utilize our net operating losses.
Let me reiterate that the tax asset valuation allowance is for GAAP purposes only.
For tax purposes our tax assets may be carried forward for 20 years from the current and we expect to utilize those tax loss carryforwards as we generate profits in the future.
We will not have to pay federal income taxes on approximately $2 billion of future pre-tax profits.
Now let me update you on our mortgage operations.
Turning to Slide 22 you can see that the credit quality of our mortgage customers continues to remain strong with average FICO scores of 742.
For the first quarter of fiscal 2014 our mortgage company captured 67% of our non-cash home buying customers.
Turning to Slide 23 we show a breakout of all the various loan types originated by our mortgage operations for the first quarter of fiscal 2014 compared to all of fiscal 2013.
As our percentage of FHA loans continues to decline the percentage of conforming conventional originations continues to increase.
Now I will turn into our debt maturity ladder which can be found on Slide 24.
In January 2014 we did $150 million bond offering which included refinancing $21 million of our 6.25 notes due in 2015 and pushing them out to 2019.
The red bars on this slide represent our unsecured debt.
We have a lot of runway in front of us before any material levels of debt come due.
We believe that we have the ability today to refinance all of the unsecured debt that matures between 2015 and 2017.
However we don't like the high costs associated with the make-whole provision on those bonds.
So we are more likely to not refinance or pay off those bonds until we are closer to their maturity dates.
As seen on Slide 25 our strong liquidity position combined with our strategy of utilizing lot option contracts land banking arrangements and non-recourse property specific financings clearly demonstrates we have the ability to grow further.
Even after we spent $182 million on land and land development during the first quarter we ended the first quarter of fiscal 2014 with $339 million in liquidity which includes about $51 million undrawn on our $75 million unsecured revolving line of credit.
We ended the quarter above the $245 million upper end of our target liquidity range of $170 million to $245 million.
We feel good about our liquidity position and if we find sufficient new land parcels that meet our underwriting hurdle rates we would remain comfortable even if liquidity was at the lower end of our target range.
Finally over the past couple of years we have been explaining to investors that we believe we would be able to increase our inventory turn over rate which would allow us to grow the company even if we did not increase our capital position.
On Slide 26 you can clearly see the progress we have made on this front during the past year.
The first bar shows our inventory turnover rate to 2.1 times in fiscal 2002 before the boom and the bust of the industry.
The next three bars indicate our turnover rates during fiscal 2011 2012 and 2013.
We increased our inventory rate from 1.1 times in 2011 to 1.4 times in 2012.
Looking at the right hand side of the slide you will see that for fiscal 2013 our inventory turnover rate increased further to 1.7 times.
We believe our historical turnover rates in excess of two times will be achievable again in the future.
Despite the slowdown in the trajectory of the homebuilding industry's recovery we are pleased with our position as we enter the spring selling season.
We continue to see land acquisition opportunities that make solid economic returns and opportunity to grow our top line while producing respectable gross margins and bottom line returns.
2014 should be another significant step in our recovery.
That concludes our formal remarks and we'd be happy to open it up for Q&amp;A now.
(Operator Instructions).
And your first question comes from the line of Nishu Sood with Deutsche Bank.
Please proceed.
Thanks and thanks for the details in the presentation.
I wanted to ask about the incentives that you have rolled out here recently in March.
I was just thinking about your approach here.
You are doing it just on homes which are already under construction as opposed to more broadly.
I was just wondering given your generally decentralized operating structure and since you are just targeting homes that are already under construction why go with a national approach as opposed to something more local and especially also considering the weather would have affected some parts of the country more than others? What were you seeing in the market that led you to go with a national overall approach as to a more targeted approach? Well first of all it was a little bit of a combination; because while it’s a national campaign each local market really determined what was appropriate and where incentives were appropriate.
So for example in Houston which has been an extremely strong market and we've been slightly below our level of ready-to-deliver homes there wasn't much and very few homes had any selective incentives and other markets where we had more opportunities they were more aggressive.
So it was really left to the local markets.
The reason we decided just to make it a national campaign is it just creates a little bit more energy and excitement and we thought it would be a better thing to do.
It's limited in time it's only for a month.
It's limited on the number of homes and locations but we still feel like its creating a little extra excitement and should give us a little catalyst for extra sales energy.
In addition to that it's going to generate traffic.
That excitement will generate traffic and bring people in that may not have otherwise come into the community and if they don't like one of our homes that already started and unsold or the other selected lots that we are doing extra incentives on they will likely buy a To-Be-Built which will increase sales activity as well.
Got it.
That's helpful.
And thinking about the margin impact I mean I obviously wanted to get your thoughts on what impact you think this might have on gross margins going forward.
I was also curious on the gross margins in the first quarter and you have that very helpful slide I think it was number 15 where you factored out the indirect overheads.
There seemed to be some erosion in the margin even factoring out the indirect overhead.
So given that the incentives that you are discussing here only really begin to take hold after the quarter I was also wondering what led to the erosion in margins in the quarter factoring out indirect overheads? Factoring out indirects the direct margin did decline -- I think that's more of a fact of mix both geographic mix and product mix that happened to occur on the quarter.
We tried to give you some guidance for the full year that we thought that based on current market conditions which includes the incentives that we are offering and big deal days that margins for the full year are going to be very similar to last year's levels.
So I don't have to give you much better guidance than that.
So you are assuming that in other words that there will be a pretty substantial pickup in gross margins as the year goes on? Pick up over the first quarter actual yes.
Got it.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
And your next question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut with JP Morgan.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
This is actually Jason Marcus in for Mike.
First question is I was wondering if you could talk about the progression during the quarter and kind of what you saw across the different buyer segments.
How did the trends in the move up segment compared to active adult and second home? And if you could discuss that with regards to the pricing and incentives that you saw during the quarter that would be helpful? Overall I can't say that we saw any pronounced trend or differentiation between the segments.
In general though the theme we and other builders have been talking about for the last couple of years that the first time homebuyer has not been as present as in the past.
That theme really continues just given the qualification challenges they have not jumped into the market as much as they have in the past.
Other than that I don't think we have seen any discernible shifts.
Okay.
And then next question is that you talked about December January and February orders being below what the company was expecting.
Can you talk about what the expectations were for that period? We would have expected that the trajectory that the industry recovery was having on contracts per community being better year-over-year would have continued; and in fact since last July we have seen contracts per community for ourselves and for our peers on average to show slight declines.
So what has been a little bit surprising since late last summer.
Okay.
Thanks.
If you look at our historical contracts per community on an annual basis you'd see we're still -- although last year was -- and the early part of 2013 was a good solid improvement we are still well below historical averages.
So if you look at I believe it was Slide number 8 we were expecting each month to continue to improve to get as closer to the historical norms.
And your next question comes from the line of Dan Oppenheim with Credit Suisse.
Please proceed.
Thanks very much.
Is there any chance you can talk about the -- you could talk away walking from 1 500 nearly identified lots? I am wondering if that -- any region in terms of where those were occurring and if so just what you're seeing in the markets in terms of just driving that? Well first I just want to clarify because it is often confused the difference between walking away in due diligence and walking away from options that have been around and in place for a long period of time.
The ladder occurred in the depths of the downturn in the 2009 2010 2011 that was not the case here.
These were just properties that were put into contract and kicked out during the due diligence phase.
So very different kind of environment and really kicked out for all kinds of reasons either estimates that changed regarding land development costs as we dug deeper into due diligence or permit issues or other issues like that.
I can't say off the top of my head any one particular geography I am not sure Jeff do you happen to have any of that data in front of you? We just took a quick peek and it's fairly evenly spread.
We saw it in most segments with the exception of maybe the west where we really didn't have a lot of land purchase activity in the quarters leading up to our first quarter.
So I don't think you could point a finger at any particular geography and say it was worse or better than the others.
Okay.
So presumably some of it was just based on the change in terms of what you are saying in terms of the expectations though correct? Some was may be based on the change some as I said was just based on information that we learned during the due diligence investigations.
Okay.
And then secondly wondering in terms of the cabinets has that been resolved now? Have you switched suppliers? It has been resolved.
Ironically again Houston was the largest market affected.
We moved first to a second manufacturer only to find out believe it or not a month later they also discontinued distribution in that area.
So that caused a mad scramble from [indiscernible] for another time.
But at this point the single sources supplier has been substituted with three different suppliers.
So we think we have that under control.
I'd say Houston probably still -- is just causing delays in the construction cycle times.
Cabinets are still challenged here I think on the other two markets we have got it well under control.
Any reason for this distribution leaving the market? I really I am not certain of their rationale.
Rest of the [Indiscernible] you can ask them.
Thanks.
And your next question comes from the line of Ivy Zelman with Zelman &amp; Associates.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Good afternoon guys.
I am just trying to square a few of the other builders' commentary with the strength that they are seeing with respect to traffic and a pick up in sales activity predominantly in the cultural markets.
We are hearing that Texas remains very strong and Houston particularly and also South Florida.
So can you help us walk around your markets? I know the mid-Atlantic had been hit hard by the winter.
But maybe just take us through the different markets and where you are seeing may be better activity versus others because it does seem like a bit of a dichotomy from what most of the other builders reported with their fourth quarter earnings when they talked about January and into February? Okay.
Sure.
Well we concur Houston in particular is probably one of the strongest markets in the country that we are seeing.
Just super strong demand enough sales ahead our challenge there is more on the production side and labor and as we discussed a little bit of material shortages.
In Florida we also are experiencing in South Florida particularly Southeast Florida very strong demand in pricing.
Less so in Tampa which has just been a little less robust and Orlando has been a little bit in between those two.
The Northern climates are the one that were really been affected from DC both Virginia-Maryland Delaware the Northeast New Jersey Pennsylvania Chicago Ohio Minneapolis those markets definitely felt the weather both in terms of sales activity and production.
The Phoenix market had no weather constraints.
I just think that market we felt that it shot ahead of itself and just taking a little bit of an adjustment and many of the builders are having to adjust the big price increases that we enjoyed during the year back just a little bit.
And California is generally very strong depending on the area it's just that we don't have enough communities out in that area and we are trying to rectify that.
And Ivy I'd also point out looking at Slide 9 again if we restacked our -- much for December quarter end and on the net contract for community we were right in the middle of the pack down 9.2%.
So I guess the intelligence you are talking about is January and February and clearly we are seeing a typical kind of sequential improvement in January and February and first week of March was good as well.
We don't have an apples-to-apples comparison to our peers there but we are seeing a sequential improvement.
We just like to see it sequentially stronger.
Okay guys.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
And your next question comes from the line of David Goldberg with UBS.
Please proceed.
Thanks.
Good morning everybody.
My first question I want to make sure I kind of understand I guess it’s a little bit of a theoretical question but I look at Slide 22 and the credit quality of buyers and some of the pause that may be seeing from buyers in the market and the comment about may be having to put some incentives on standing inventory? And I guess my question is a little bit of a theoretical one which is do you think that the pool of buyers -- is it that the pool of buyers? Is this just a sticker shock where prices have gone up year-over-year rates are up they want to come back a little bit? And so there is a bit of sticker shock for buyers that are going to communities today or do you think the credit quality of the buyer pool is deteriorating because it's not growing as quickly as sales are going out the door? I mean I know it’s a little bit theoretical but I look at average LTBs ticked up a little bit and a fraction -- CLTV has picked up a little bit [indiscernible] is just picking up a little bit.
Is there something there with the credit quality or its just sticker shock at this point? I believe that it’s the former not the latter.
I don't think that the credit quality has deteriorated of our customers? I mean it’s a challenge to get through but the underwriting criteria hadn't materially changed in the past year one way or other and I don't think people's credits all of a sudden worse.
I think its just an impact of the U.S.
economy is not as strong as perhaps it has been in periods of other recoveries and you combine that with may be the industry was too aggressive and pushing prices in 2013 too fast.
So that there is some sticker shock out there.
But I wouldn't draw the conclusion that its credit quality at the consumer.
Thank you.
That's very helpful.
Then just to follow-up I wanted to ask about providing incentives and you guys have obviously so much experience in the industry.
I was wondering if you could give us an idea about are you concerned at all that if you started doing limited incentives then the builder X down the street has to kind of do incentives to compete with you when we get into a bit of a circular reference? Or is it you guys are going to put some incentives and again very-very small incentives out there and then if buyers come back and say well builder X is going to do X times 10% above X or whatever the number is you say we are not going to do that that's not interesting to us.
Is it the potential circular reference or is this --? Remember on a localized basis incentives are adjusted added etcetera all the time; and we all adjust to what competitors do around the corner across the street etcetera all the time.
It just doesn't rise to the attention unless you talk about it or unless you make it a national campaign.
Last month Toll Brothers had their successful national sales campaign and I don't think their campaign during and they have lasted the entire month of February.
I don't think it made dramatic changes in how the competition reacted.
There is I believe was selective as well and the market just adjusts to it just like it does in the local market when everybody doesn't hear about it.
That's very helpful.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of Brendan Lynch with Sidoti.
Please proceed.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
My question is on the labor constraints.
In your press release you suggested that some of the decline in deliveries was attributable to labor constraints and I just wanted to get a little more color on that? It varies from market to market but I'd say in general as the market has been recovering and starts have been rising year-over-year the shortage in labor is just extending building cycle.
So if we were on a schedule to build homes let's say in 2013 or 2014 weeks that might have extended by a few weeks and in some cases it obviously varies by product type and it varies by market.
But a few week extension can cause you to miss deliveries for any given month or certainly any given quarter.
We'd expect the cycle times to gravitate back to normal.
But in general I'd say there is little stress still on the labor front.
And is there any particular region that is particularly constrained or is it just kind of general throughout the country? I'd say the hottest markets feel it more and may be Houston feels it more than others number one it has been quite strong and number two on top of that they have got a strong oil industry and they are paying some -- industry is paying some significant dollars for everything from truck drivers to different types of manual labor and those are candidates that would have been potentials for the construction pool.
So maybe Houston is feeling it a little bit more but it has been somewhat broad based around the country.
Okay great.
Thanks for the color Ara.
And there are no further questions.
I will now turn the call back over to Ara for further remarks.
Great.
Well thank you very much.
We are obviously not pleased that we didn't deliver better results but look forward to the spring selling season unfolding and delivering some better news in subsequent quarters.
Thank you.
This concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you all for participating and have a nice day.
All parties may now disconnect.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today on the Hovnanian Enterprises’ Fiscal 2014 Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
An archive of the webcast will be available after the completion of the call and run for 12 months.
This conference is being recorded for rebroadcast and all participants are currently in the listen-only mode.
Management will make some opening remarks about the second quarter results and then open up the line for questions.
The Company will also be webcasting a slide presentation along with the opening comments from management.
The slides are available on the Investors page of the Company’s Web site at www.khov.com.
Those listeners who would like to follow along should log onto the Web site at this time.
Before we begin I would like to turn the call over to Jeff O’Keefe Vice President Investor Relations.
Jeff please go ahead.
Thank you operator.
And thank you all for participating in this morning’s call to review the results for our second quarter ended April 30 2014.
Before we get started I would like to quickly read through our forward-looking statements.
All statements in this conference call that are not historical facts should be considered as forward-looking statements.
Such statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results performance or achievements of the Company to be materially different from any future results performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements.
Although we believe that our plans intentions and expectations reflected in or suggested by such forward-looking statements are reasonable we can give no assurance that such plans intentions or expectations will be achieved.
Such risks uncertainties and other factors include but are not limited to changes in general and local economic industry and business conditions and impacts of the sustained homebuilding downturn adverse weather and other environmental conditions and natural disasters changes in market conditions and seasonality of the Company’s business changes in home prices and sales activity in the markets where the Company builds homes government regulation including regulations concerning development of land the homebuilding sales and customer financing processes tax laws and the environment; fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of mortgage financing shortages in and price fluctuations of raw materials and labor the availability and cost of suitable land and improved lots levels of competition availability of financing to the Company; utility shortages and outages or rate fluctuations levels of indebtedness and restrictions on the Company’s operations and activities imposed by the agreements governing the Company’s outstanding indebtedness the Company’s sources of liquidity changes in credit ratings availability of net operating loss carry-forwards operations through joint ventures with third-parties product liability litigation warranty claims and claims made by mortgage investors successful identification and integration of acquisitions significant influence of the Company’s controlling stockholders changes in tax laws affecting the after-tax costs of owning a home geopolitical risks terrorist acts and other acts of war and other factors described in detail in the Company’s annual report on the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31 2013 and subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Except as otherwise required by applicable securities laws we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events changed circumstances or any other reason.
Joining me today from the Company are Ara Hovnanian Chairman President and CEO Larry Sorsby Executive Vice President and CFO; Brad O’Connor Vice President Chief Accounting Officer and Controller and David Valiaveedan Vice President of Finance and Treasurer.
I’ll now turn the call over to Ara.
Ara go ahead.
Thanks Jeff.
And thank you all for participating in this morning’s call to review the results of our second quarter ended April 30 2014.
Let’s start with Slide Number 3 as we show on the slide most of our operating metrics improved year-over-year.
The upper left hand corner of the slide you can see that our total revenues increased 6% year-over-year from the second quarter of fiscal 2013.
Moving to the upper right hand portion of the slide our homebuilding gross margin increased 130 basis points year-over-year to 20.2%.
Continuing clock wise in the lower left hand -- excuse me lower right hand quadrant we show that the dollar value of our backlog increased 21% year-over-year.
And the lower left hand quadrant we show that interest as a percentage of total revenues was flat compared to last year’s second quarter.
We also show a negative comparison with SG&amp;A ratios increasing this quarter compared to last year.
Let me try to explain what happened with SG&amp;A.
Growing the top-line is a critical component of our strategy to improving our financial performance.
We’ve invested in that growth both from a people perspective with a 16% year-over-year increase in staffing levels and a land perspective with eight consecutive quarters of growth in total loss control.
As we grow community account there’s often a lag before we see the efficiency affect growth has in our SG&amp;A ratio.
This lag occurs because we incurred SG&amp;A expenses for acquiring planning and opening the new communities well before we have any new deliveries or revenues from those new communities this is specifically true as we are buying more undeveloped land.
This is a position we find ourselves in today and it’s causing our SG&amp;A ratio to be higher than our normal range.
Turning to Slide 4 we show a sequential comparison from the first quarter to the second quarter of this year to illustrate the power of growth in revenues.
Here you can see that sequentially as we increase our top-line we leveraged our fixed costs.
In the upper left hand corner of this slide you can see that our total revenues increased 24% sequentially from the first quarter of fiscal ’14.
The revenue increase was driven by a 19% sequential increase in our deliveries as a well as a 4% increase in average sales price.
Moving to the upper right hand portion of the slide our homebuilding gross margin increased 140 basis points sequentially during the second quarter to 20.2%.
In the lower left hand quadrant we show that both our total interests and our total SG&amp;A expenses as a percentage of total revenues improved sequentially as our total revenues increased our interest expense ratio improved from 9% to 8% and our SG&amp;A ratio improved from 17% to 14%.
The results of these improvements can be seen in the lower right hand portion of the slide where we show the pretax loss decreased by $17 million in the second quarter compared to the first.
We’re optimistic that as we start generating deliveries from our new communities and increased revenues in our stronger third and fourth quarters we will be able to improve further our SG&amp;A ratio and interest expense ratio in those quarters and overtime return them to more normalized levels.
Moving on to the net contracts on Slide 5 the dollar value of consolidated net contracts which we show on the left hand side of this slide increased 15% in the second quarter of 2014 to 669 million from $580 million last year on the right side we show the dollar value of net contracts including unconsolidated joint ventures increased a lower percentage at 1% to $703 million.
The number of joint venture communities has been decreasing as the number of our consolidated wholly-owned communities has been increasing.
The significant increase in our consolidated net contract dollars will allow us to leverage our SG&amp;A cost when these homes are delivered.
While the housing market had improved dramatically overall compared to where it was a couple of years ago the recent recovery has been a little more choppy.
Slide 6 shows the dollar amount of net contracts on a monthly basis with the most recent month shown in blue and the same month a year ago shown in yellow.
This slide illustrates the choppiness that we’ve recently seen in the market.
Focusing just on the last three months the dollar value of net contracts improved year-over-year in March declined in April and showed modest improvements in May.
On Slide 7 we show net contracts per community for the most recent months in blue again compared to the same months in the previous year which we show in yellow again.
To go all the way back to June of 2013 that month marked the 20th consecutive month of year-over-year increases in net contracts per month but for the next eight months July ’13 through February ’14 the year-over-year comparisons were negative in response to a more sluggish sales pace.
We launched a national sales campaign that we’ve discussed before on our call Big Deal Days that was in March of 2014.
The campaign was focused primarily on started but unsold homes.
The promotion together with a better selling environment overall had a positive effect on our sales including homes that were not included in the promotion.
The absolute number of net contracts in March of ’14 was 728 which was the highest single month we have had since April of 2008.
Additionally March of 2014 we increased our sales pace to 3.6 net contracts per community which is the highest net contracts per community for a single month since September of ’07.
Needless to say we were pleased with our results in March.
Unfortunately that stellar pace turned out to be a one off phenomenon rather than a long-term trend hence my referral to the choppiness the sales pace during April and May was choppy and the sales pace per community in both months fell short of last year’s levels.
Our results are not dissimilar to the results for the group of publicly traded homebuilders with March quarter ends.
We show this on Slide Number 8 here we’ve aligned our results for a March quarter end and you can see that our net contracts per community were down 6% which is slightly better than the 11% median decline this group of builders experienced but overall it’s clearly not a great quarter for anyone in terms of sales pace per community.
However despite the decline in our sales pace per community our backlog has grown compared to last year.
On Slide 9 we showed the dollar amount of our backlog which increased 21% to just over $1 billion from $865 million last year and the backlog units increased 14% year-over-year.
On Slide 10 we show that our year-over-year growth in backlog units compares well to our peers increased community count certainly helped.
This increase in our backlog gives us confidence that we will be able to continue to grow our top-line this year.
Since late summer of 2013 our ability to raise prices has moderated.
There are a couple of exceptions to this comment.
Our best performing market continues to be Houston Texas which happens to be our largest market.
Another market that’s doing well is Silicon Valley in California.
The common trade between these two markets is very strong job growth.
In Houston it’s driven by the energy industry in Silicon Valley by technology.
We firmly believe that a pickup in the overall U.S.
economy particularly one that is driven by the creation of well-paying jobs will go a long way toward accelerating the recovery of the housing market across the country.
Right now the challenge in Houston and Silicon Valley is not selling houses it’s getting the houses built.
So wrapping up the 2014 spring selling season we saw the typical seasonal pickup begin in January.
Our national sales campaign seems to shift the peak of the spring selling season to March instead of April with March being one of the best months we have seen in years then home sales got a bit choppy in April and May.
And clearly the first half of the year was behind last year’s sales pace per community.
However when we get to July the year-over-year comparisons get a little easier.
We are hopeful that with the little pickup in sales in the second half of the year will be able to get back to a similar sales pace per community that we saw for all of fiscal ’13.
Given the slower sales pace per community we’re more focused than ever on growing our community count so that we can increase our top-line even in the unlikely event that sales pace doesn’t return to normal levels.
Slide 11 shows that our community count increased 11% year-over-year from 177 at the end of the second quarter last year to 196 at the end of the second quarter this year.
For the past six quarters our consolidated community count has grown sequentially.
During the trailing 12 months we opened 95 new communities but closed out a 76 older ones.
We anticipate growing our community count further this year.
Our land span for the second quarter was $105 million.
As you can see on Slide 12 beginning in the second half of 2012 the number of net additions to our lot count has exceeded the number of deliveries by 10 900 lots.
In the second quarter our net additions totaled 4 600 lots which is the highest level of net additions during the eight quarters shown on this slide.
Our land acquisition teams are working hard across the country so that we can continue to grow our community count this year and beyond and reach our goal of being fully invested.
Taking a step back and looking at the bigger picture we continue to believe that household formations will be the primary driver of long-term housing demand.
The creation of well-paying jobs will go a long way in getting household formations back to levels associated with the population growth of our country.
Given the low levels of total U.S.
housing starts we remain convinced that we’re still in the early stages of the housing industry recovery.
As such we are laser focused on identifying new land parcels and growing both our community count and our top-line.
I will now turn it over Larry Sorsby our Executive Vice President and CFO.
Thanks Ara.
Let me start with a discussion about our gross margin trends.
Slide 13 shows that we have reported year-over-year improvements in gross margin for the past nine quarters.
During the second quarter of fiscal 2014 we once again achieved gross margin percentages in excess of 20% with the slower sales pace and the decline in our ability to increase sales prices the cost pressures we were feeling from trade partners in 2013 has evaded.
Unfortunately due to periodic labor shortage in many of our markets and the lingering effect of a harsh winter weather we have seen our construction cycle times lengthen.
Turning to Slide 14 we show our gross margin percentage going back to 2000.
If you focus on the left hand part of this slide in 2000 and 2001 near the boom and the burst years our gross margin was between 20% and 21%.
We would consider this to be a normal gross margin range for our Company.
Even though our gross margin increased year-over-year during the first half of fiscal 2014 assuming no changes in current market conditions we expect our gross margin for our full fiscal 2014 year to be similar to the 20.1% we reported in all of fiscal 2013.
This takes into account the increased concessions that we offered during our Big Deal Days sales promotion and the sales incentives we continue to offer today across many of our markets.
Turning to Slide 15 during the second quarter of fiscal 2014 while our sequential SG&amp;A expenses remain stable our total SG&amp;A expense increased year-over-year to 62 million compared to 52 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2013.
This increase in SG&amp;A expense is partially reflective of the investments we are making to find and purchase new land parcels and grow our community count.
We expect these investments will lead to increased revenues which will allow us to leverage our fixed SG&amp;A cost and generate increased levels of profitability in the future.
Homebuilding SG&amp;A increased $10 million year-over-year during the second quarter of 2014 approximately half of the increase was due to higher increased advertising cost higher selling salaries related primarily to increases in the number of sales associates and increased architectural expenses associated with new home designs.
This portion of increase is also due to fewer joint venture deliveries resulting in a corresponding reduction of our joint venture management fees.
Joint ventures management fees are offset SG&amp;A expenses so this reduction in management fees caused our SG&amp;A expenses to increase.
About 25% of the increase was related to higher general staffing levels which is primarily the result of community count growth.
Reflective of the growing and competitive homebuilding market the remaining 25% of the increase was due to increases in total compensation costs for our associates.
Underneath the bars on this graph you can see that our total SG&amp;A as a percentage of total revenues decreased 270 basis points from the first to the second quarter of fiscal 2014.
We expect further reductions in this ratio in the second half of this fiscal year.
On Slide 16 we show our annual total SG&amp;A ratio as a percentage of total revenues going back to 2000.
We consider approximately 10% of a normalized SG&amp;A ratio as we continue to generate revenue growth we expect to be able to leverage our fixed SG&amp;A expenses further and get this ratio back to a normalized level.
Although we expect our total SG&amp;A dollars to increase in fiscal 2014 we anticipate that our SG&amp;A as a percent of total revenues during 2014 will be similar to the 11.9% we reported for all of fiscal 2013.
By the fact that we have given directional guidance for gross margins and total SG&amp;A we believe the market is too choppy to provide specific profitability guidance for the full year.
Assuming no deterioration from current market conditions we expect to be profitable for our full 2014 year.
However we anticipate our profitability to be even more backend weighted this year than it was during fiscal 2013.
Turning now to Slide 17 you will see our owned and optioned land position broken out by our publicly reported segments.
At the end of the second quarter 91% of our optioned lots are newly identified lots excluding mothballed lots 83% of our total lots are newly identified lots.
Our investment in land optioned deposits was $73 million at April 30 2014 with $71 million in cash deposits and $2 million of deposits being held by letters of credit.
Additionally we have another $11 million invested in pre-development expenses.
We un-mothballed 258 lots in two communities in Florida and one community in New Jersey during the second quarter of 2014.
Turning now to Slide 18 we show our mothballed lots broken out by geographic segment.
In total we have about 6 200 mothballed lots within 47 communities that were mothballed as of April 30 2014.
The book value at the end of the second quarter for these remaining mothballed lots was $106 million net of an impairment balance of $419 million.
We are carrying these mothballed lots at 20% of their original value.
Recently the water resource reform and development bill was passed by Congress and is expected to be passed by President Obama later this month.
This bill resolves a building moratorium in Natomas California related to concerns regarding levees and flooding.
Passage of the bill will ultimately allow us to un-mothball and reopen for sale 632 substantially developed lots in our Natomas communities.
Since 2009 we have un-mothballed approximately 3 850 lots within 66 communities.
Every quarter we review each of our mothballed communities to see if they are ready to be put back into production.
As home prices continue to rise we expect to un-mothball additional communities as we move forward.
Looking at all of our consolidated communities in the aggregate including mothballed communities we have an inventory book value of $1.3 billion net of $598 million of impairments.
We have recorded those impairments on 79 of our communities for the properties that have been impaired we are carrying them at 20% of their pre-impaired value.
Another area of discussion for the quarter is related to our current deferred tax asset valuation allowance.
At the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2014 the valuation allowance in the aggregate was $936 million.
Our valuation allowance is a very significant asset not currently reflected on our balance sheet and we have taken numerous steps to protect it.
We are in the process of reviewing the timing of reversing our valuation allowance under GAAP with our auditors.
Based on current assumptions for future periods we expect to be able to reverse all or part of the federal valuation allowance at the end of fiscal 2014 with any remaining portion reversed in fiscal 2015.
When the reversal does occur it will be added back to our shareholders’ equity further strengthening our balance sheet.
On slide 19 we show that we ended the second quarter with a total shareholder deficit of $463 million if you add back the total valuation allowance as we’ve done on this slide then our shareholders’ equity would be a positive $473 million.
We believe that we can repair our balance sheet just by returning to profitability and have no intentions of issuing equity anytime soon.
However we could issue approximately 120 million additional shares of Hovnanian common stock for cash without limiting our ability to utilize our net operating losses.
Let me reiterate that the tax asset valuation allowance is for GAAP purposes only for tax purposes our tax assets maybe carried forward for 20 years from occurrence and we expect to utilize those tax loss carry forwards as we generate profits in the future.
We will not have to pay federal income taxes on approximately the next $2.1 billion of pretax profits.
Now let me update you on our mortgage operations.
Turning to Slide 20 you can see that the credit quality of our mortgage customers continues to remain strong with average FICO scores of 747.
For the second quarter of fiscal 2014 our mortgage company captured 64% of our non-cash home buying customers.
Turning to Slide 21 we show a breakout of all the various loan types originated by our mortgage operations for the second quarter of fiscal 2014 compared to all of fiscal 2013.
Our percentage of FHA loans was 16% in the second quarter of fiscal 2014.
In the top right hand portion of this slide we’ve shown that this is down from our highest 38% FHA originations in fiscal 2010.
This decline in FHA is primarily due to increases in FHA mortgage insurance cost bars have switched away from FHA loans to more affordable Fanny Mae and Freddie Mac conforming loans.
Now turning to our debt maturity ladder which can be found on Slide 22 in January 2014 we issued $150 million of bonds which included refinancing $21 million of our 6.25 notes due in 2015 and pushed their maturity out to 2019.
This refinancing was completed during our second quarter.
The red bars on the slide represent unsecured debt.
We have a lot of runway in front of us before any material levels of debt come due.
We believe that we have the ability today to refinance all of the unsecured debt that matures between 2015 and 2017 however we don’t like the high cost associated with the make hold provisions on those bonds today so we’re more likely to refinance or pay off those bonds until such time as we’re closer to the maturity dates.
As seen on Slide 23 our strong liquidity position combined with our strategy of utilizing lot optioned contracts and banking arrangements non-recourse property specific financings clearly demonstrates that we have the ability to grow it further.
Even after we spent $105 million on land and land development during our second quarter we ended the second quarter of 2014 with $298 million of liquidity which includes about $55 million undrawn on our $75 million unsecured revolving line of credit.
We ended the quarter above the $245 million upper hand of our target liquidity range of 170 million to $245 million we feel good about our liquidity position and if we find sufficient new land parcels that meet our underwriting hurdle rates we will remain comfortable even if liquidity was at the lower end of our target range.
Finally over the past couple of years we have been explaining to investors that we believe we would be able to increase our inventory turnover rate which would allow us to grow the Company even if we did not increase our capital position.
On Slide 24 you can see you can clearly see the progress we’ve made on this part during the past several years.
First bar shows our inventory turnover rates at 2.1 times of fiscal ’02 before the boom and the burst of the industry.
The next three bars indicate our turnover rates during fiscal ’11 ’12 and ’13.
We increased our inventory rates from 1.1 times in 2011 and 1.4 times in 2012 and further to 1.7 times in 2013.
On the far right hand side of this slide you can see that a result of ramping up our inventory for future community count growth the inventory turnover rate for the trailing 12 months at April 2014 was 1.6 times unchanged from the trailing 12 months one year ago.
We believe our historical turnover rates in excess of two times will be achievable again in the future.
We remain focused on controlling more land opening up more communities and growing our top line in order to leverage our fixed cost.
We believe that we are well positioned to capitalize on opportunities in an improving housing market and I’ll now turn it back to Ara for some brief closing remarks.
Thanks Larry.
We certainly felt the impact of an unusually harsh winter weather in many of our geographies during the beginning of fiscal 2014.
In addition the subcontractor shortages we have spoken about are still prevalent and construction cycle times have lent in as Larry mentioned earlier.
These two factors combined with a slower sales pace at the end of last year led to disappointing deliveries in the first half of fiscal ’14.
Furthermore the higher levels of SG&amp;A dollars associated with community count growth combined with the lower delivery levels resulted in a weaker first half of the year than we expected.
However we had substantial improvements in many financial metrics in our second quarter.
We’re very pleased with the 130 basis points improvement in our gross margin the 15% growth in dollar value of net contracts and the 21% growth in dollar value of contract backlog.
These improvements give us confidence for continued growth in revenues and profitability during the second half of 2014.
Looking further into the future the expected increases in our community count will set us up for continued top-line growth and more importantly will allow us to reach a more critical mass that will return us to a sustainable profitability.
That concludes our formal remarks and we’ll be happy to open it up for questions and answers now.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
My first question was actually on the direct interest expense in the quarter and kind of how we should think about direct interest expense on a go forward basis.
And really the question comes from obviously there is some leverage on this number.
But I’m just thinking about the fact that active assets have been going up inventory has been going up faster and debts been going up community count has been going up you have been unmothballing communities.
But it seems like the direct interest expense the absolute dollar level isn’t changing very much.
And I’m just wondering as we go forward how should we be thinking about that and how that’s going to affect the business and profitability of business I guess?  I think a couple of things impact direct interest and you have described them all well I mean it depends on what active inventory we have that we can capitalize interest on and as the inventory grows we can capitalize more.
But at the same -- this particular quarter and this year you are seeing that other interest just kind of stayed flat to the prior year because we actually have more interest incurred with the additional debt that we issued in January.
So I think overtime you should expect to see it go down assuming we continue to grow inventory and have more active communities and don’t add any additional interests.
In addition to the 150 million of notes we issues in January we have also added in our non-recourse mortgage balance you will see on the balance sheet about 30 million which also has interest that has to be expensed or capitalized.
So our interest incurred is going up which is why it is kind of staying flat on the other interest lines.
But your assumption I think is right that overtime assuming all else stays the same and inventory goes up we should start to see that number go down.
Thank you and then just as a follow-up I was wondering if we could talk about cycle times in the commentary that cycle times have extended a little bit and then reconciling that with the concept the inventory turnover overtime is going to go back towards the kind of two times that we were at before the last up cycle should we be thinking about that as -- you guys think that kind of the moving cycle times is kind of short-term and labor is adjusting so that cycle times will come back down or as the inventory turnover the acceleration is not going to come more from capital allocation and capital efficiency in terms of land and working capital efficiency.
That’s a good question David but generally construction times and cycle times are unusually high right now.
And overtime as the subcontractor labor market balances more we would expect construction cycle times to get more normalized.
Without a doubt potential of decreasing construction cycle times by several weeks or a month would not be odd at all it would just get us back to normal.
At the same time that construction cycle time should be getting back to normal we’re hoping that sales pace per community also gradually gets back to normal.
That’s a key driver of inventory as well.
And as you see sales pace per community get back to normal levels I think that will definitely help us get back to our more normalized higher inventory turns.
That is very helpful thank you Ara thank you everybody.
Thank you first question I wanted to ask was on the gross margin.
You had indicated earlier in the quarter that you’re launching the international sales promotions including some of the incentives for example but your gross margin -- and I believe so the incentives where related to spec homes as well.
So the gross margin improved by I think 140 basis points sequentially which isn’t really that far below the sequential gross margin improvement you’d last year.
So you did give the more cautious guidance on the gross margin for the remainder of the year.
So I was just wondering how all those pieces fit together when we’ve seen the impact of the sales promotion have been increasing in fact it is already or is it more over back half of the year effect?   Yes I think you did see some in the second quarter as you mentioned we did primarily focuses and started unsold the inventory and some of those homes did close during the second quarter.
But as we mentioned last quarter during the call that we are going to be fairly modest increases in incentives and even a quarter ago we told that we expected to have similar gross margins for the full year of ’14 after taking into account the expected of our big deal day extra incentives we’re staying true to that projection for the full year even though the first half of the year both quarters both the first quarter and the second quarter were positive compared to the same quarters a year ago so most of the impact of big deal days will be in the latter half of this fiscal year but in spite of the slight increase in incentives that will be coming through for the full year our gross margins we still think are going to be comparable to what we saw for the full fiscal ’13 year.
Okay great.
And next question I wanted to ask was on the SG&amp;A you mentioned that the increase is partly related to increasing community counts.
If we were to think about SG&amp;A intensity per community is that changing as we go along here through the recovery as well and what I mean by that is it’s coming more expensive to open new communities is there more competition there is more communities being open generally so to get the attention or to have the right levels of staffing if we could think about SG&amp;A necessity has it been changing as we go along here? Yes.
Well first of all and I alluded to this in my comments.
We are seeing more of our new land acquisitions as undeveloped and that means we do have a little bit more indirect expense it was the construction overhead associated with developing those lots.
That being said if you go back to our normalized SG&amp;A levels at 10% that has probably a more similar percentage of undeveloped lots we had a nice period of more developed lots but overall I wouldn’t see a dramatic increase in community startup.
It just hit us that we have as you saw from the quarter we have a particularly large quarter of new net land additions and it hit us at the same quarter as we have some lower deliveries so you just felt the effect more pronounced early in the year.
On the whole for the full year we’d expect our SG&amp;A levels to be similar percentage wise to last year and then we expect to make more progress in reducing those in the coming years right after that.
Okay got it.
Thank you.
Good morning guys.
This is Alan on for Ivy.
And my first question on the order pace curious when you look at the volatility on the monthly results the strong spike in March followed by the choppiness in April and May as you described.
When you compare your results versus some of your competitors and made the broader industry.
Would you say that your monthly order trends and you think are fairly indicative of what the broader industry is seeing or was there some added volatility as a result of the incentives there at sales campaign that we have and then I have a follow up on that as well.
This is anecdotal obviously because we don’t compare monthly data and not all of our peers give us granular inside as we do.
But anecdotally I would say that March was a better environment for most notwithstanding the fact that we happen to have our promotion I think it was a stronger sales environment for the industry.
I’d say in general everybody has been experiencing the ups and downs of the choppiness of the sales environment.
Okay.
And my second question on our FHA shares continuing to come down quite a bit and I was curious if you can comment a little bit on that whether that’s more a function of buyers choosing to go conforming given the lower cost and the increases we’ve seen in premiums on FHA over the last several years or whether you think that’s more mix driven and that buyer simply is no longer active in the market today? I think it’s purely a function of the increases in the MIP premium you’ve seen on the FHA loans as FHA costs have increased it’s actually become more affordable to do conforming Fannie or conforming Freddie Mac.
So those buyers that could qualify for Fannie or Freddie have switched to that and we’ve seen a corresponding increase in that percentage of conforming originations during that same period of time so I think it is hugely weighted towards the disadvantage higher cost of FHA MIP premiums.
And alongside that have you seen any significant changes in underwriting standards or guidelines on the conforming side have you seen some using that’s also help shift that buyer to the conforming market.
Very recently recent months we’ve seen some of the cut and overlays been removed and that’s been helpful but it’s only been very recent that we’ve seen that happen.
So I wouldn’t give that credit for why people have shifted away from FHA and VA since 2010.
But I will say it’s an incremental positive that makes the conforming conventional even more enticing because of the incremental improvements and the ability to qualify borrowers.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
Good morning.
It’s actually Jason Marcus in for Mike.
First question has to do with traffic trends I was wondering if you could discuss what you are seeing I guess both in terms of foot traffic and wet traffic over the last several months and into May and if you could also kind of discuss that in really more context as well? I don’t have the regional numbers in front of me but the traffic on a year-over-year basis has been down a bit this spring as compared to the last spring in the vicinity of 8% of something like that less traffic than we saw a year ago on a per community basis.
So we have seen a little slowdown in traffic but our conversion rate contrary has improved so that’s kind of an offset but I apologize that I just don’t have the traffic data by region in front.
Okay.
Next question regarding the land market can you just give a little bit of color in terms of what you are seeing in terms of land competition and price hand over the last quarter of so and how much inflation did you see run through the P&amp;L during the quarter? I would say over the last quarter land pricing has been a little more stable kind of reflecting the fact that the recovery is taking a little smoother pass right now.
And nonetheless it remains as it always is a generally competitive market but from the bigger perspective though if you look at the previous normal markets a lot of the competitors are out of the market.
In fact if you went back to the top 50 homebuilders list from 2005 almost a third are out of business so that’s generally helpful.
There are some fewer numbers of builders out there to compete with particularly in the private homebuilding sector but generally speaking everyone is anxious to refill their pipeline and it’s a healthy competitive market on land.
Thanks.
Thanks.
Good morning.
In relation to absorptions for most companies have been declining as you pointed out.
Do you think the industry is may be bringing on too many communities too fast if absorptions are still not at normal levels? I’ll take a stab at that and Larry you may want to echo in but no I don’t believe that that is the case at all.
I think it’s logical at this point in a cycle we are still in the very early stages that builders would be trying to increase their community count.
It’s one of the few things that we can do to directly control our ability to grow.
The other factor is growing absorptions per community which is more a function I think of the overall U.S.
economy improving job being created.
As Ara mentioned earlier in the call in markets where we are seeing job growth so from Houston homes are kind of flied off the shelf there and we certainly have confidence that U.S.
economy is going to continue to grow create jobs and we want to have the communities so not only do we get growth discovered increased community count but also because we will start to have higher absorptions per community.
And the overall positive leverage that’s created from increasing sales per community is huge and dramatic from a P&amp;L perspective and we are very convinced that over time that’s going to occur and I suspect that our peers believe that as well.
Just again putting the overall market into perspective obviously the market has improved dramatically in terms of total housing starts.
We hit a historic low in this nation at trough 500 000 starts per year I mean we haven’t seen that since World War II.
It has improved dramatically and we are now close to a 1 million starts per year and while that’s dramatically better than trough it’s well below average.
Forget about the pick we went through the average over the last five of the six last decades is about 1.5 million starts.
So we are way below average levels of housing production and therefore there should be pent-up demand.
You don’t want to be chasing the curve in terms of land purchases.
We have grown our company over the last 50 plus years and one of the important strategies is as we are in a recovery to make sure we are ahead of the game in the curve in land that propelled us as in each of the last housing cycles significantly and we think it’s important to position ourselves as this recovery continues to unfold in this cycle as well.
Great.
And then just one quick one Larry you mentioned I think some of the overlays being removed I was curious maybe most of several what they were and what do you think driving out was it potentially know our feature what you think it could have been behind those factors? You know I don’t -- we talked about this with ahead of our mortgage cap maybe other day and he kind of cited three or four things that had been loosen I just don’t recall them off the top of my head they are not huge changes but they are incremental loosening and credit guideline I just don’t have to remember specifically what they were.
Overall though I think it is fair to say that the current FHA are director has a more positive attitude toward housing and the need to return to rational lending then it’s predecessors and I think that’s helpful thing.
I think also what’s happening in the regional as credit overlays are getting loosened is that the aggregators of Wells Fargo’s and Chase’s of the world who have put those credit overlays in place have seen their business from the mortgage origination side slow because of the refinance slowing and therefore they are hungry for business.
I think it’s really that is as much as anything else has been driving.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Thanks very much.
Just wondering if you can talk little bit about what you’re doing in terms of the plans for opening new communities in success with the recently open communities given the lower absorption that’s occurring right now.
Are you doing more in terms of marketing more in terms of incentives just in craziness as they are opening those I am just wondering how the result have been on this new look communities versus your expectation? Well first of fall I think our advertising has gone up a little bit and that would reflect in our most recent quarter but in general our strategy is for all of our land acquisition to assume the current incurring sales space as well as sales price.
So in some time depending on the lead time we buy a property assuming sales assumption of read a month and the market but we’re hoping is that 3.6 a month and obviously we enjoy that positive variants and other times we buy when a 3.6 and its close to 3 and we’re disappointed with slightly lower returns in that case.
But on the haul I think that we speak to the discipline of using then current absorptions we can’t get too hurt and we’re constantly in the market constantly buying so correcting to the current market conditions.
Overall I wouldn’t say we’re doing anything dramatically dramatically different in terms of preparation or incentive in openings.
Great.
Thank you.
Adam? Okay.
Go to the next questioner.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning Susan.
Good morning.
I want to talk about I guess a little hoping to get a little bit more color regionally.
And I guess there -- I guess more on the down side which market are you seeing little spark? And I think regionally for you guys I know grew Arizona and Texas together so I know Ara you already talked about Houston being really strong.
Can you talk about some of the other markets where there continues to be slowdown? Yes.
So slowdown is going to be a relative term in Phoenix and I think this is well being discuss in the industry it got white hot last year for about the first half of the year it’s cooled but I hardly called it slow it’s still a very solid market and we’re performing well there.
But it is slow relative to the white hot environment that we have there last year in the first half of the year.
Market that’s been a little slower and disappointing has been the Ohio market although in recent month that just recently there seems to be picking up a little bit on the per community side.
Other than that I can’t say that there’s been a noticeable high and low way I mentioned those have been a bit slower.
I mentioned Houston and particular the Silicon Valley part of Northern California is being a little higher but I don’t figure any other standouts.
And then just a follow-up I guess with regards to your orders and it look like the Mid-Atlantic region the orders were up a lot but I was curious as to why the average price is down I don’t know if that was mix related? That’s primarily mix related in terms of we have a broad products array it could be just with the mix of the types of products that were in there it could just be the community themselves or in different areas the different selling prices.
I wouldn’t read too much into that.
Okay great thanks so much.
Thanks good morning guys.
I wanted to see if we could focus a little bit on the on your option lots and now we see there’s a big dump in the Southeast.
Is that in Florida or is that one in the Carolinas and is there like just a few large communities that you guys are looking at or are they just a lot of more average type communities?  We have made a little more progress in the Southeast and it’s both a mix of more communities and perhaps a little more size I haven’t really focused on which of the two is driving it a little bit more but we are definitely focusing on the Southeast area.
And that includes both Florida and the Carolinas?  Yes it does as well as the coastal areas of Georgia which we kind of manage the coastal areas of Georgia North Carolina and South Carolina from one operation? Alex we just kind of done some of the detail and just eyeballing it it looks like it’s pretty evenly split between the Carolinas and Florida in terms of the option lots we did during the quarter.
Got it and then in terms of the going back to the previous question orders in the Mid Atlantic.
I mean it seemed like a pretty sizeable jump was there any kind of special incentive that was different that you did throughout there or what you think drove the jump the huge jump sequentially and year-over-year?  There wasn’t anything special that we did in the mid Atlantic vis-à-vis big deal days we did a national campaign and clearly the campaign was customized for each market but the mid Atlantic didn’t do anything significantly different than we saw in other parts of the country.
Okay thanks Larry.
Can you hear me this time?  Yes we can.
I know in response to one of your earlier questions you suggested that you didn’t think your March improvement was so different from the market but I feel like your monthly orders per community for the year so far that was the only month that you didn’t have a double digit decline so that kind of suggests to me at least that the big deal days were successful so I was wondering.
My question was twofold one what were the promotions that seemed to work the best and then two if that’s what drove the improvement in March does that change your guys perspective at all on future promotions this year.
You know Adam I’d like to take credit for the really strong March as you know this great promotion but I just think it was coincident with a good month in the market.
You know this little choppy environments means there’re just good periods and bad periods and frankly it’s hard to correlate what brings a couple of weeks of strong sales.
I tried to look at the news and say oh you know that’s why we had a great week this week and then the next week we had a slower week and I try to understand it.
It’s hard to draw a correlation but I’d say we just had good timing of introducing the promotion to a good market.
The promotion was not super significant it was really focused only on specs started unsold which are generally not a huge part of our sales but just really the excitement and electricity if you will of a promotion generates a good buzz in the sales communities charges up the salespeople and we have good sales in all of our homes including those that weren’t covered by the promotion.
So generally speaking I don’t think we have any immediate plans to repeat a promotion.
The last nationwide promotion we did was four or five years ago that was successful then we decided not to repeat it and we just thought this would be a good time in the market.
Now each other than these national promotions each division and even each community decides based on its local environment when to do a particular promotion and there’s typically something ongoing somewhere in the country at any given point of time.
But one thing to just kind of reiterate while we believe that it was as much the market and March as anything else Adam was we actually continued the big deal days promotion into April and April was down year over year so I just think as Ara said we generated a lot of excitement both internally with our sales team and externally with prospects and it worked in March to some degree but I think we would if you just asked us because we don’t see everybody else’s monthly results we’d say it’s kind of weighted it was just a good market in March and we just have a choppy kind of market situation from one month to the next.
Okay that’s all I had thanks for taking the question.
Thank you very much as we said there were a lot of positive metrics in the quarter and some things we were not as pleased with but overall we’re pleased with the overall market condition and we look forward to reporting some continued improvements in the quarters to come.
Thank you very much.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning and thank you for joining us today for the Hovnanian Enterprises' Fiscal 2014 Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
An archive of the web cast will be available after the completion of the call and run for 12 months.
The conference is being recorded for rebroadcast and all participants are currently in a listen-only mode.
Management will make some opening remarks about the third quarter results and then open the line for questions.
The Company will also be webcasting a slide presentation along with the opening comments from management.
The slides are available on the Investors page of the Company's web site at www.khov.com.
Those listeners who would like to follow along should logon to the web site at this time.
Before we begin I would like to turn the call over to Jeff O'Keefe Vice President Investor Relations.
Jeff please go ahead.
Thank you operator and thank you all for participating in this morning's call to review the results for our third quarter.
Before we get started I would like to quickly read through our forward-looking statements.
All statements in this conference call that are not historical facts should be considered as forward-looking statements.
Such statements involve known and unknown risks uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results performance or achievements of the company to be materially different from any future results performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements.
Although we believe that our plans intentions and expectations reflected in or suggested by such forward-looking statements are reasonable we can give no assurance that such plans intentions or expectations will be achieved.
Such risks uncertainties and other factors include but are not limited to changes in general and local economic industry and business conditions and impacts of the sustained homebuilding downturn adverse weather and other environmental conditions and natural disasters changes in market conditions and seasonality of the Company's business changes in home prices and sales activity in the markets where the Company builds homes government regulation including regulations concerning development of land the homebuilding sales and customer financing processes tax laws and the environment; fluctuations in interest rates and availability of mortgage financing shortages in and price fluctuations of raw materials and labor the availability and cost of suitable land and improved lots levels of competition availability of financing to the Company; utility shortages and outages or rate fluctuations levels of indebtedness and restrictions on the Company's operations and activities imposed by the agreements governing the Company's outstanding indebtedness the Company's sources of liquidity changes in credit ratings availability of net operating loss carry-forwards operations through joint ventures with third parties product liability litigation warranty claims and claims made by mortgage investors successful identification and integration of acquisitions significant influence of the Company's controlling stockholders changes in tax laws affecting the after-tax costs of owning a home geopolitical risks terrorist acts and other acts of war and other factors described in detail in the Company's annual report on the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31 2013 and subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Except as otherwise required by applicable securities laws we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events changed circumstances or any other reason.
With that out of the way joining me today from the Company are Ara Hovnanian Chairman President and CEO; Larry Sorsby Executive Vice President and CFO; Brad O'Connor Vice President Chief Accounting Officer and Controller; and David Valiaveedan Vice President of Finance and Treasurer.
I'll now turn the call over to Ara.
Ara go ahead.
Thanks Jeff.
We are pleased to review the result of our third quarter ended July 31 2014.
I am going to start with slide number 3.
Our total revenues increased 15% year-over-year from the third quarter of fiscal 2013.
Our revenue growth was driven by an increase of deliveries and an increase in average sales price from $345 000 to $367 000.
Although we have been able to increase home prices in certain communities across the country the 6% increase in our average sales price was primarily driven by changes in geographic and product mix.
Moving to the upper right hand portion of the slide our homebuilding gross margin increased 100 basis points year-over-year to 21.3%.
Continuing clockwise in the lower right hand quadrant we show that the dollar value of the backlog increased 14% year-over-year.
In the lower left hand quadrant we show that our SG&amp;A ratios increased slightly this quarter compared to last year.
Larry will talk a little more about SG&amp;A in a moment.
Lastly we show that interest as a percentage of total revenues decreased 100 basis points compared to last year's third quarter.
Going forward we remain focused on growing our revenues even further so that we can leverage our operating platform and drive increased profitability.
Slide 4 illustrates the operating leverage that we gained as we grew our revenues during the first three quarters of fiscal 2014.
As we sequentially increased our top line we leveraged our fixed costs and returned to profitability during the third quarter.
Starting the upper left hand corner of the slide you can see that sequentially our total revenues increased 24% from the first quarter to the second quarter and then another 22% increase from the second quarter to the third quarter.
Moving to the upper right hand portion of the slide our gross margin also increased sequentially each quarter in 2014 from 18.8% in the first quarter to 21.3% in the third quarter.
In the lower left hand quadrant we show that our total SG&amp;A and total interest expense as a percentage of total revenues improved sequentially each quarter during 2014.
Our SG&amp;A ratio improved 16.6% in the first quarter to 12.2% in the third quarter and our interest expense ratio improved from 9% to 6.5%.
The results of these improvements on our profitability can be seen in the lower right hand portion of the slide where we show we swung to a $15 million pre-tax profit during the third quarter.
We are convinced that as we continue to generate increases in revenues we will show further improvements in our SG&amp;A and expense -- interest expense ratios and over time return them to more normalized levels.
Additionally in the third quarter of 2014 the dollar value of our consolidated net contracts increased 5% to $517 million from $495 million last year.
At the beginning of this year we expected to continue to see improvements in sales pace and overall housing activity similar to what we saw in 2013.
The housing market has certainly improved dramatically compared to where it was in the trough of the market in 2009 but this year sales pace has been choppy.
Slide 5 shows the dollar amount of net contracts including unconsolidated joint ventures on a monthly basis with most recent months shown in blue and the same month a year ago shown in yellow.
This slide illustrates the choppiness that we have recently in the market.
Focusing on the last two quarters we have flipped back and forth between year-over-year increases and decreases each and every month.
Finally in August we bucked the trend and had two consecutive months of improvements in the dollar amount of net contracts.
On slide 6 we show net contracts per community for the most recent months in blue compared to the same month in the previous year shown in yellow.
After 20 consecutive months of year-over-year increases -- in July of 2013 we began reporting negative year-over-year comparisons.
Since then we have had only two monthly year-over-year increases; one was in March when we had a national sales promotion and fortunately one was recently in the month of August.
We are encouraged that the number of net contracts per community in July approach same levels as last year and in August exceeded last year by 9%.
Given the somewhat easier monthly comparisons going forward we remain optimistic that we will be able to achieve year-over-year improvements in net contracts per community and reverse the negative trend the homebuilding industry and our company has experienced over the last year.
On slide 7 to give you complete granularity and transparency and recognizing that many in the industry are concerned about recent sales we show week by week comparisons.
You can see that since mid-July and for seven weeks in a row we have achieved weekly year-over-year increases in net contracts.
Based on the growth in our community count net contracts in our average selling price the dollar amount of our backlog has grown compared to last year.
On slide 8 we show the dollar amount of our backlog increased 14% to just over $1 billion from $897 million last year.
You can also see that the number of homes in backlog increased 5% year-over-year.
This increase in backlog combined with the growth in our community count gives us the confidence that we will be able to continue to grow our top line as we head into next year.
Slide 9 shows that we have successfully grown our consolidated community count over the past two years.
Most recently our community count increased 5% year-over-year from 186 at the end of the third quarter of last year to 196 at the end of the third quarter this year.
During the trailing 12 months we opened 92 new communities but closed out 82 older ones.
We continue to focus on growing our community count even further.
As the homebuilding industry continues its recovery we believe that the sales pace per community will return back to more normalized levels.
That growth and sales pace combined with the growth in our community count will prove to be a powerful driver of future increases in our profitability.
Taking a step back and looking at the bigger picture we continue to believe that household formations will be the primary driver of long term housing demand.
Future improvements in the U.S.
economy including the creation of better paying jobs will be beneficial to household formations which will ultimately benefit the homebuilding industry.
The current low level of housing formations is not consistent with the population growth or the demographics of our country.
Given the low levels of total U.S.
housing starts we are convinced that we are in the early stages of the housing industry recovery and as such we are laser focused on identifying new land parcels and growing our community count and our top line.
I will now turn it over to Larry Sorsby our Executive Vice President and CFO.
Thanks Ara.
Let me start with a discussion about our gross margin trends.
Slide 10 shows that we have reported year-over-year improvements in gross margins for the past 10 quarters.
During the third quarter of fiscal 2014 we once again achieved gross margin percentages in excess of 20%.
Although we expect a gross margin for our fourth quarter in excess of 20% we do not expect the fourth quarter to exceed last year's fourth quarter gross margin of 22.6%.
Turning to slide 11 we show our gross margin percentage going back to fiscal 2000.
If you focus on the left hand part of the slide in fiscal 2000 and 2001 neither boom nor bust years our gross margin was between 20% and 21%.
We consider this to be a normal gross margin range for our company.
Assuming no changes in current market conditions we expect our gross margin for our full fiscal 2014 year to be similar to the 20.1% we have reported in all of fiscal 2013.
This expectation takes into account the increased concessions that we offered during our big deal days sales promotion and the sales incentives we continue to offer across many of our markets today.
Turning to slide 12 you can see that our total SG&amp;A as a percent of total revenues decreased 170 basis points from the second to the third quarter of fiscal 2014.
We expect further reductions in this ratio in both the fourth quarter and in future years.
While our SG&amp;A ratio decreased sequentially in both our second and third quarters our SG&amp;A expenses and our SG&amp;A expense ratio have increased slightly compared to the prior year.
The majority of this increase was related to our efforts to grow our community count including higher compensation related to increased staffing increased advertising costs and increased architectural expenses.
Additionally as a result of fewer joint venture deliveries we experienced a reduction in joint venture management fees which is an offset to general and administrative expenses.
The remainder of the increase was due to increases in compensation for many of our field associates that are reflective of today's competitive homebuilding environment.
On slide 13 we show our annual total SG&amp;A expenses as a percentage of total revenues going back to fiscal 2000.
We consider approximately 10% as a normalized SG&amp;A ratio as we continue to generate revenue growth we expect to be able to leverage our fixed SG&amp;A expenses further and get this ratio back to a more normalized level.
Although we expect our total SG&amp;A dollars to increase in fiscal 2014 we anticipate that our SG&amp;A as a percentage of total revenues during 2014 will be similar to the 11.9% we have reported for all of fiscal 2013.
Assuming no deterioration from current market conditions we expect our pre-tax income for our full 2014 fiscal year to be similar to our pre-tax income for all of fiscal 2013.
Turning now to slide 14 you will see our owned and optioned land position broken out by our publicly reported market segments.
At the end of the third quarter 91% of our option lots are newly identified lots we have put under control since January 2009.
Excluding mothballed lots 83% of our total lots are newly identified lots.
Our investment in land option deposits was $75 million at July 31st 2014 with $73 million in cash deposits and $2 million of deposits being held by letters of credit.
Additionally we have another $16 million invested in predevelopment expenses.
Turning now to slide 15 we show our mothballed lots broken out by geographic segment.
In total we have about 6 000 mothballed lots within 46 communities that were mothballed as of July 31st 2014.
The book value at the end of the third quarter for these remaining mothballed lots was $104 million net of an impairment balance of $414 million.
We are carrying these mothballed lots at 20% of the original value.
During the quarter we unmothballed a community in Southern California.
Since 2009 we have unmothballed approximately 4 100 lots within 67 communities.
Every quarter we review each of our mothballed communities to see if they are ready to be put back into production.
As home prices continue to rise we expect to unmothball additional communities as we move forward.
Looking at all of our consolidated communities in the aggregate including mothballed communities we have an inventory book value of $1.4 billion net of $585 million of impairments.
We have recorded those impairments on 75 of our communities.
With the properties that have been impaired we are carrying them at 20% of their pre-impaired value.
Another area of discussion for the quarter is related to our current deferred tax asset valuation allowance.
At the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2014 the valuation allowance in the aggregate was $933 million.
Our valuation allowance is a very significant asset not currently reflected on our balance sheet and we have taken numerous steps to protect it.
We will not have to pay federal income taxes on approximately the next $2 billion of pre-tax earnings.
We are in the process of reviewing the time and we are endorsing our valuation allowance under GAAP with our auditors.
Based on current assumptions for future periods we expect to be able to reverse all or part of the federal valuation allowance at the end of fiscal 2014 with any remaining portion reversed in fiscal 2015.
When the reversal does occur it will be added back to our shareholders' equity further strengthening our balance sheet/ On slide 16 we show tat we ended the third quarter with a total shareholders deficit of $443 million.
To add back the total valuation allowance as we have done on this slide then our shareholders' equity would be a positive $490 million.
Over time we believe that we can repair our balance sheet by returning to profitability and have not intentions of issuing equity anytime soon.
Now let me update you on our mortgage operations turning to slide 17; you can see that the credit quality of our mortgage customers continues to remain strong with average FICO scores of 745.
For the third quarter of fiscal 2014 our mortgage company captured 62% of our non-cash home buying customers.
Turning to slide 18 we show a breakout of all the various loan types originated by our mortgage operations for the third quarter of fiscal 2014 compared to all of fiscal 2013.
Our percentage of FHA loans was 15% in the third quarter of fiscal 2014.
At the top right hand portion of this slide we have shown that this is down from the high 38% FHA originations in fiscal 2010.
The steady decline in FHA is primarily due to increases in FHA mortgage insurance costs.
Borrowers have switched away from FHA loans to more affordable Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac conforming loans.
Now turning to our debt maturity ladder which can be found on slide 19.
The red bars on this slide represent unsecured debt.
We have a lot of runway in front of us before any material levels of debt come due.
We believe that we have the ability today to refinance all of our unsecured debt that matures between 2015 and 2017.
However we don't see enough benefit to paying the high costs associated with the make-hold provisions to refinance those bonds today.
We are not likely to refinance or pay those bonds off until such time as we're closer to the maturity dates.
As seen on slide 20 even after we spent $138 million on land and land development during our third quarter we ended the third quarter of 2014 with $232 million of liquidity which includes about $50 million undrawn under our $75 million unsecured revolving line of credit.
We ended the quarter near the upper end of our target liquidity range of $170 million to $245 million.
We feel good about our liquidity position and if we find sufficient new land parcels that meet our underwriting hurdle rates we remain comfortable even if our liquidity was at the lower end our target range.
As you can see on slide 21 beginning in the second half of 2012 the number of net additions to our lot count have exceeded the number of deliveries by about 10 900 lots.
In the third quarter our net additions totaled 1 600 lots which was slightly more than deliveries we had in the third quarter.
The small increase was primarily due to walking away from 1 300 lots most of which were put under option during this year's second quarter that did not make it through the due diligence process.
Our option deposits are typically fully refundable during the due diligence time period so these walkaways resulted in only a modest $600 000 of charges primarily consisting of investigative expenses during our third quarter.
As you can see on the bottom of this slide for the past nine quarters we continued a trend a very modest quarterly walk-away charges.
The 1 300 lots we walked away from during the quarter is reflective of the discipline we exercise when we underwrite land based on the then current home prices and the then current home selling paces to achieve a 20% plus internal rate of return.
Our land acquisition teams are working hard across the country so that we can continue to grow our community count this year and beyond and reach our goal of being fully invested.
I am happy to demonstrate that our land team's hard work is paying off.
Six to nine months ahead of our typical land acquisition schedule today we already control including the assumptions that we have for year-over-year growth virtually all of the lots needed for our 2015 projected deliveries.
Furthermore including additional growth expectations for 2016 deliveries controlled today as well.
This puts us well ahead of our typical land acquisition schedule for both next year and the year after.
We remain focused on controlling more land opening up more communities and drawing our top line in order to leverage our fixed costs.
We believe that we are well positioned to capitalize on opportunities on what we believe is the early stages of the housing market recovery.
I will now turn it back to Ara for some brief closing remarks.
Thanks Larry.
We are pleased with our progress thus far and we look forward to delivering very strong fourth quarter results.
While the housing market recovery has been a little lackluster and choppy we are confident that our growth in land investments community count and backlog are going to lead us to continued growth and improved performance in 2015.
Longer term we are convinced that we are in the early stages of the recovery.
If you turn to slide 22 you can see total housing starts by year from World War 2 through today.
The trough in this most recent recovery was different from any other trough in the past seven decades.
Prior to the most recent downturn we had not started less than 1 million homes since World War 2.
Prior cyclical troughs got as low as 1 million housing starts but only stayed there for a year or two.
This year instead of a low of 1 million housing starts we fell to a low of 550 000 housing starts in 2009.
The industry has scraped and clawed its way back to improvement but we are still under 1 million housing starts per year.
We have now been below 1 million housing starts for seven consecutive years.
Even this year after five years of improvement that feels pretty good we are still at the lowest level of housing production since World War 2 other than the recent trough.
The numbers on the horizontal green bars are the decade annual average starts.
For the past six decades we've averaged about 1.5 million starts per year.
So at the current level of just under 1 million starts we are only half way back to the six decade average annual level of starts and demographers are projecting a better decade this quarter based on household formations more like what our country experienced in the 1970s that you can also see this in this chart.
Looking beyond normal levels the peaks of the past six cycles averaged 2 million starts.
That's more than twice as many homes as we are currently starting.
Demographics continue to be in our favor as the population is still growing here in the United States the millennials are going to the point where they too will become homeowners and there are a lot of them.
At the same time the baby boomers are looking for that move down home since they are becoming empty nesters with different needs.
With our broad product array we have both ends of the spectrum first time and active adult covered as well as many segments in between.
Immigration continues to add to the housing demand as well.
Given these facts we are very encouraged that there is more upside than downside at this point in the cycle.
In 2006 with a similar geographic footprint we delivered over 20 000 homes.
That's over three times what we are delivering today.
As the housing market recovery progresses we believe we have a tremendous opportunity ahead of us and look forward to delivering industry leading performance once again.
That concludes our formal remarks and we will be happy to open it up for questions and answers right now.
(Operator Instructions).
Your first question comes from the line of Adam Rudiger Wells Fargo Securities.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my questions.
My first question was just on the July and August year-over-year improvements.
How much do you think that is a better market or using comparisons? So I guess just the question is can you just talk about what your sense is the intra-quarter trends were and really if you have seen an improvement or is it just comps? I don't have handy the data for 2013.
Jeff who is in another office might be able to track that down.
But its I am sure a little bit of both.
Clearly the markets slowed down in July of last year but we are feeling a renewed sense of activity and interest in our sales offices.
Okay.
And on similar topic can you talk about what you do with incentives and if the -- what you did post big deal days? Yeah.
There have been really no major changes in -- on incentives or concessions since big deal days.
I mean we kind of reverted back to normal and we haven't done any significant changes since then.
All right.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut JP Morgan.
Please proceed.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
First question I had was on gross margins.
Appreciate the guidance there when thinking about 4Q and the full year.
I just wanted to confirm that that essentially would imply -- you said that you expect gross margins to be down year-over-year certainly at a very strong number in 4Q 2013.
But I think you had also implied given your outlook for the full year down sequentially maybe about 100 bps and just wanted to get a sense if I think you'd imply that some of the impact of that -- number one is that's correct from a mathematical point and number two just how much of that was due to the earlier big deal days promotion in terms of the sequential decline? Let me clarify because I think maybe I misunderstood your remarks but on the full year we expect gross margins for 2014 to be similar to the full year gross margins for 2013.
In the fourth quarter of 2014 we expect gross margins to be above 20 but not as high as the 22.6% that we achieved in last year's fourth quarter; maybe that's where you are coming up with a sequential decline.
And I think all -- an indication is that we had an extremely extraordinarily high gross margin in the fourth quarter of 2013 powered by some sales price increases that we got earlier in 2013 that actually delivered in the fourth quarter of 2013.
We are very pleased with how our margins are holding up in spite of big deal days sales promotions and subsequent incentives modest incentives that we have been doing and do not expect that you should be reading anything negative into our fourth quarter gross margin other than -- our gross margins are continuing at our normalized kind of gross margin rate that we are pleased with.
Well I appreciate that Larry.
I guess what I am getting at is in fiscal 2013 your gross margin was right around 20% 20.1% and so in order for you to make a roughly similar number this year it would point to the way the math is working at least the way I am -- the model is working I am pretty confident there.
That the 4Q gross margin would be down versus 3Q as well and again just wanted to kind of understand perhaps what the driver of that would be if it would be the some of the higher incentives from big deal days that are -- several months ago? I don't think you should take my comments as literally as you're taking it to a mathematic precise number.
When we say they are going to be similar for the full year that's a range of above what it was last year and below what it was last year.
You can't calculate with precision what our real expectation is.
We have given you a range and you can take from it what you want but I have given you color that we are going to be pleased with what our fourth quarter gross margins are.
And Mike just to add overall.
I mean big deal days it was certainly helpful but it wasn't hugely impactful to our gross margins.
Frankly most of those were -- almost all of them were started homes and there was a promotion in March.
So if it was started we have had April May June and July to deliver those.
So a lot of those big deal days -- homes actually delivered in Q3.
There will be some I suppose little leftover for Q4.
But they are not hugely impactful from a margin standpoint just a bit.
That's a great point.
I appreciate that Ara.
Thanks for that.
Just a second question I think later in the slides you pointed to your land position and the fact that you continue to add lots you have 2015 deliveries tied up and 70% of 2016.
Just wanted to get a sense though from a community count perspective and when you talk in general about the fact that you have 2015 all tied up I assume that implies -- I guess let me not assume.
Does the expected deliveries for next year is that -- you expect that to be higher than -- I mean assuming that let's say sales pace stays similar.
What I am really asking for is your thoughts around community count growth in particular as your lots continue to grow if we can see further community count growth into 2015 and that your planned deliveries what you have now under control would assume some growth? Sure I will take that.
We are intending to grow the top line for 2015 and we do not bake in any improvements in sales per community in our projections.
We always project the current environment we usually take the last two months to three months and use that trend seasonally adjust it and assume that pace going forward.
So based on those two factors we are counting on community growth and when Larry mentioned the progress we are making on securing our communities for deliveries for 2015 and 2016 that took into account the community count growth that we are trying to achieve.
We are always careful and I don't think any of our peers do community count projections either we don't like to do it.
It's just a tricky one to project.
There are always little minor delays on an approval on a community before you can start and sometimes community and older community sells out a little faster a little slower.
So there are so many moving parts that most are hesitant to give a precise projection.
But you're correct we are planning overall for community count growth and that's one of the ways we are going to achieve our growth.
Thanks.
And just on that idea and I will get back in queue.
The community count builders have pointed to some delays in the last three to six months that has lowered their outlook for year-end community county versus prior guidance earlier this year.
Have you seen any of those delays as well and would that result in perhaps the entire pipeline being pushed back or by contrast perhaps the potential for the -- expect the community roll-outs to occur as well as maybe getting an additional boost from some of the delays? I would say we didn't give any guidance specific guidance on what community count growth would be for the fourth quarter or the full year rather than to say we were going to have community count growth we still believe we are going to have community count growth certainly have had it already this year and expect it again next year as Ara discussed.
We have had the typical kind of regulatory delays that happened sporadically from one market to another.
I wouldn't say that it feels like we had dramatically more than normal times though we may have had some [indiscernible].
Great.
Thanks very much guys.
Okay.
Your next question comes from the line of Ivy Zelman with Zelman and Associates.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
Good result guys.
Very helpful.
With respect to your comments Larry around the mortgage data was really helpful and talking about the decline in FHA.
Maybe we can just talk prospectively about with the development activity and your plans for the next two to three years recognizing even in the agency you might be getting more to that entry level buyer that today has been a more fluent buyer but maybe give us some color around the communities they are going to be opening one of the big debates is a demand problem or is it a supply problem and reminded of a movie Kevin Costner in Field of Dreams if you will build it they will come.
Maybe just some perspective as we think about what you guys are doing and what you're seeing any green sheets on the mortgage side of the business with respect to liquidity being more provided mortgage liquidity to borrowers? I would say that at this stage we continue to hear some positive comments about some loosening of underwriting guidelines and taking off the credit overlays and we are seeing some evidence of that but I would say its really around the edges and fringe and hasn't had much significant impact on underwriting the entry level buyer at this stage anyway.
We haven't recognized as any kind of significant easing.
We will take any easing that we can get and it's helpful.
But in terms of our planning for communities in the future we have always believed in a very broad product array so that we are not over relying on any particular segment.
I think our entry level product represents about 30% of our buyers today.
I don't think you're going to see us make any significant shift in that.
I mean its still a very important segment to us as we go forward a little longer term certainly the demographics of the aging baby boomers a very powerful force and we are going to look for growth in our Hovnanian Four Seasons brand for active adult communities 55 and older as well as looking at products in some of our more traditional communities that moved down older buyer might want to see.
But I don't think we are going to reduce our focus on the entry level buyer.
It's about a little less than a third of our product today and it's roughly where it will stay going forward is my suspicion.
And then Ara -- thank you that was helpful Larry just to -- get to my follow-up question.
As it relates to your views the debate about urban versus suburban and we are really starting to just begin to knock on the door of the millennials that are even more significant in absolute numbers than the baby boomers turning 30.
And even in the Tristate area there seems to be -- those young 30s are moving out to the single family lifestyle.
So give me your view Ara just with respect to how you see that urban versus suburban debate [indiscernible] has made some pretty significant statements about his views.
So I would like to know yours please.
Sure.
Well you must be chatting with my 24 year old son who is certainly [indiscernible].
But I think there will be no doubt a growing role of urbanism at all types and we do some types in many of our markets.
We certainly do center city redevelopment in Houston.
We do it in the Northeast outside of New York City.
We are about to start in the new 13 story mid-rise outside of New York on the Gold Coast here in New Jersey and we do a fair amount of -- its not urban infill but infill in some of our markets including markets like Chicago and out in the Silicon Valley area near San Jose.
I am a believer in it and I'd say while we are probably not going to be quickly as active as we were in 2005 in the urban area we probably will be growing our presence a bit.
I would still say that when you look at demographics and you compare the growth in the 25 to 35 year olds versus the growth in the 65 or 55 plus its definitely more action in the 65 plus.
So while we agree there should be a focus on urban redevelopment we are also keeping the other eye on how to meet the needs of the aging population.
There is a lot of growth happening in that group in the next 10 years and we are just trying to come up with our strategic plan on how to best serve those people.
Interestingly some of them might want a more urban environment as well.
But many will want a more typical suburban.
So I think it is going to be a balance in this coming decade.
One of the things -- just to follow on that front Ara is that we have seen people are living longer and they are actually staying in their -- or choosing to stay in the same family lifestyle longer.
Do you have any data given your focus on that segment of the market to support that notion? Not necessarily people think they are living single family we are going to have a lot of [ph] housing but we are seeing -- our data that suggests otherwise.
So I am wondering what your studies are showing you? You know we are seeing anecdotally and I can't give you the exact number but I am positive that this is happening.
In our non-age restricted communities we are seeing more demand for single story homes and master-downs than we have historically.
That's always been a factor in markets like Dallas for example but its all of a sudden in the last couple of years becoming a bit factor in markets like DC which is surprising to us and markets like Chicago.
So I'd say while not everyone will be cut out for an active adult community I certainly understand that.
Not everyone is going to want to live in the same four bedroom two storey center hall colonial that they have been living in to raise their families.
It might be a single family home it might not be an age-restricted community but it's probably going to look different than the kind of housing and the stairs associated with it that they grew up in.
Unfortunately Ivy we have some of these conversations on a personal level in the hallways here because some of the senior executives of Hovnanian not only qualify for our 55 and older but even beyond that and we talk about what we want to do personally.
We are not the typical buyer out there but we have houses that we are now empty nesters and you keep that house and you continue to live in it even though you don't need that much space till you go to an active adult community that you just have two homes that are smaller and there is not even consensus amongst the executives at our own company.
So I think that's just not a one size fits all phenomena there that people are going to make different choices and whether it goes to urban whether it goes to single storey master bedroom down two storey Its just going to be over the map.
But we are very interested in trying to find niches that meet the needs of the aging baby boomer.
I will add one other comment and I will give one of my peers credit Stuart Miller at Lennar really reinvigorated the whole concept of multi-generational living and that is something that we have introduced in many markets as well and we have had great success.
I think that's going to be a growing factor as demographics see the older buyer and not everyone wants to have their parents in a congregated care facility or nursing home I think that's going to be a growing factor coming this decade.
Thank you so much guys.
And we will see you in a couple of weeks Ivy.
Your next question comes from the line of Nishu Sood with Deutsche Bank.
Please proceed.
Thanks.
Wanted to revisit the gross margin topic.
If you think back to the end of 2012 and the first part of 2013 you obviously had very-very strong pricing trends.
Those pricing trends obviously changed coming into this year.
You folks obviously mentioned the incentives as well the big deal days; and most of the impact of that as you were saying earlier Ara has flowed through into the results already.
So with all that happening your gross margins have still looked very solid have outperformed each of the quarters so far this year against last year.
So my question for you is how should we frame that? I mean has there been an overreaction to -- use of the word incentives fears from obviously what happened a few years ago.
Or is this more of a reflection of the sorts of new communities that you are rolling in and they are just coming in at higher gross margins giving a strong tailwind? I think it's really a reflection of us returning to normalized gross margins.
We have been very consistent in underwriting new land deals based on then current home prices then current absorption rates we have not assumed that home prices were going to go up as we underwrote those new hand deals and in spite of a relatively stagnant home price environment over the last three or four quarters our gross margins have been relatively stable on a year-over-year 12-month kind of rolling basis and I think we just are back to achieving kind of normalized margins and that's kind of what you should think about in terms of us going forward in spite of maybe just tweaking incentives slightly.
I do believe it was overblown neither ourselves nor our peers have really given away the farm so to speak by increasing incentives.
We have tweaked them around the edges.
Even when we were doing our big day sales sales promotion in March and April we focused it on started but unsold homes and maybe some of the least attractive lots in the community 1% to 3% kind of number.
It wasn't huge it was really a marketing promotion that got people off the fence and that was enough.
So just maybe the market has overreacted that builders are giving away the ship so to speak.
Got it.
And that's helpful.
And then on the second question the effect of mortgage rates.
Clearly last year the significant decline in rates in the first part of the year and then the complete reversal of that contributed to the boom and bust that we had in 2013.
So far this year it's not the same magnitude but there has been a pretty significant decline in rates through the course of 2014.
So my question is have you -- in what you are seeing on the ground have you seen a positive effect from that and then obviously on the other side of that is that demand isn't super strong right now; so are you concerned about the potential effects of a reversal of what we have seen so far this year? Certainly like it when it's going down a lot more than we like it when it starts to tick up.
I mean that's an obvious statement but its helpful but its not an overwhelming floodgate opening that rates have come down but its certainly helpful and I will let Ara comment on what he sees in terms of rates as they tick up with the impact.
Sure.
Well just a reminder because it's all too easy to forget.
In 1982 and 1983 as we were coming out of the housing recession we had mortgage rates up 13% and we certainly built way more houses than we are building now and by the way we built more houses in 1981 when rates were 18% than we are building now.
So I completely agree with Larry lower is better but as long as we don't have a shockingly quick increase I think the market will adjust because demographics are prevailing we are selling primarily shelter.
Somebody has got to be housed somewhere.
What we have seen as an interesting phenomenon over the last couple of years and I suspect the interest rate environment has had something to do with it people have been selecting -- we offer a variety of model types anywhere from three per community to 12 in some cases we have seen customers gravitate towards the largest of the models and in many cases add a lot of options both structural and finished options to the house.
I suspect if rates slowly go back up they may not select the largest house anymore they may go towards the middle; of if rates really go up they may go towards the lower end of the house.
But we price our homes virtually the same gross margin whether it’s a large house or a smaller house.
So while the revenue per home may go down a little bit the gross margin should not really be affected.
So again just to give a long winded answer in summary now lower is better but as long as the rates are not don't jump up overly quickly I am not too concerned; and given the fed right now and their focus on housing I'd be surprised if they'd allow a rapid increase in rates that would harm the market.
Okay.
Thanks for the color.
Your next question comes from the line of David Goldberg with UBS.
Please proceed.
Thanks.
Morning.
Good morning.
Wanted to follow-up on a question on Ivy's question earlier and it’s a bit of an operational follow-up and it has to do with underwriting and easing in what's happening in the market.
So what I am trying to get an idea is on a local basis how do your operators stay on top of available liquidity sources for clients for buyers how do they know that they are kind of in the right place especially when you think about capture rates for internal business.
How do you know you're getting buyers qualifying that you're in the right kind of sweet spot especially kind of given that on a local market basis there can be differences in risk appetite from lenders if we want to call risk appetite with not much risk in the market.
But you can find markets where you might find lenders that are willing to take on some more -- to expand the credit box a little bit? Yeah David you have probably given our operators more credit than they deserve.
We have customers traffic that comes in and we train our sales staff to do everything they can to try to convince that traffic to sign up and buy a home and then they rely on our mortgage company to do everything in their power to get them qualified for a mortgage and so yes there is heated competition going on in the mortgage industry right now because the refinance business has dried up.
So the third party mortgage companies are hungry for deals and they have been very competitive on rates and that's causing some competition.
But if our mortgage company for whatever reason is unable to approve a prospect we immediately try to send it to a third party lender who may be -- will do a high or lower FICO score than our mortgage company or do something in order to attempt to qualify that customer.
But we turned over every rock and stone that we can in order to get them qualified and hope to do that.
In terms of just kind of macro positioning at the local market level because we have that broad product array we are not over-reliant on a particular market segment and what they might do there a little longer term kind of positioning if they see a lot of competition at the entry level we like to zig while everybody else is zagging.
So we might do more move-up more active adult more something else so that there is just kind of less competition in the niches where we are trying to serve to the extent that we can do it.
But that's more like turning a battleship than it is turning a speedboat.
It takes a little time to adjust.
That makes sense.
And then I was wondering -- I think there was other question Nishu asking earlier but I was just wondering about -- you kind of land positions and kind of A B C D locations and Ara you mentioned in the prepared remarks about how you were significantly bigger in a similar geographic footprint? And I am wondering that if you look out over the next couple of years and the growth that you're thinking about do you need to be in the C locations? Do you need to be in the D locations to achieve the kind of growth you want to achieve? Or can you do enough kind of A B development and maybe some infill and accommodation to new communities.
To get to the kind of growth that you think would be sufficient for your targets without having to expand as much? It’s a good question really and one that we are kicking around internally.
We and the whole industry has really gone away from the C location generally.
But as rates gradually increase and they are bound to gradually increase and as home prices increase I think the C locations may have some attractiveness again.
I don't think you will see us go disproportionately strong in the C locations while we have been avoiding those kind of locations in general I would not be surprised if you see some of them coming to our overall mix.
It would be logical.
Its one to be careful of as you go farther into a normal housing production level because it is a segment that can slow down rapidly when the market softens.
But we are so far away from an average level of housing production let alone a peak level of housing production it's probably something that makes sense.
And while we haven't kind of reached consensus with all of our division heads its something that is a current topic of discussion.
That's very helpful.
Thank you for the color.
Your next question comes from the line of Joel Locker with FBN Securities.
Please proceed.
Hi guys.
Hello.
Just a question on SG&amp;A.
It creeped up a little bit obviously the gross margin was really nice this quarter but just on the $3.4 million increase sequentially was there any one timers in there? That was pretty much what I elaborated in my prepared remarks Joel.
In terms of -- we have been focusing on community count growth and incurred some additional expenses as a result of the investment we have made to prepare for the community count growth.
I mean initially you kind of have the expenses without the revenues so the ratio gets a little bit on a whack.
There was no really unusual items that I can recall in the quarter but we are confident that as we continue to grow the top line and that ratio come back down to the normalized level.
So the last two quarters of to call it your $3.5 million kind of increase you think that will flatline going forward more so versus Q2? I think -- sitting in your chair that's the assumption I would make.
Right.
And the other one just on JV communities how many did you have opened at the end of the third quarter? Its on slide 9 but at the end of the third quarter we had 10 open for sale JV communities.
10 for sale.
All right.
Thanks a lot guys.
You bet.
Your next question comes from the line of Megan McGrath of MKM Partners.
Please proceed.
Good afternoon.
Larry you gave a lot of guidance in a very short amount of time so I just wanted to clarify that on your SG&amp;A and pre-tax income guidance it was both fiscal 2014 being very similar to fiscal 2013? Sorry both fiscal 2014 and 2015 is that what you're saying? No no no sorry for SG&amp;A and pre-tax income your guidance was that fiscal 2014 will be similar to last year's fiscal 2013? For the full year.
For the percent of SG&amp;A and for gross margin that's correct.
Okay.
And for pre-tax income as well? Yes.
I said that -- You did say that? Okay I just wanted to clarify that.
And then I just wanted to ask if you could provide a little bit of color geographically on what you're seeing.
It looks like a lot of the growth rates were very similar to what we are seeing.
[Indiscernible] you had a great course in the Mid-Atlantic but declined in the Northeast.
So any particular regions you could call out whether that is more driven by community count growth versus true market demand would be helpful? Ara you want to tackle it? Yeah some highlights regarding community count growth.
We did have a decent jump in the mid-Atlantic and that's part of the reason why you saw some higher sales growth there; and in terms of other major changes.
I am not sure I would say there were any major declines out there.
The West had a decline but they are a small number so it’s a little misleading it was really just a decline from a percentage standpoint.
I suppose the other one that moves both ways is the Midwest we have had some increases but you don't -- in community count you don't quite see it in home sales and that's because the contracts for access on community in the Midwest and for us its Illinois Minneapolis and Ohio; those have slowed down just a bit.
In particular Chicago market Illinois it slowed down the market is very strong for us.
There is a production problem.
There is -- it has been tricky to get the trades to keep up with our sales so we are just ratcheting back our releases.
But in Ohio and Minneapolis it has just been a little slower in terms of sales per community.
Those are the only ones that kind of stick out in terms of major differences in the number of community counts versus the sales.
Okay great.
And then if I could just ask one more clarification in terms of your August numbers would it make a significant difference in the percentage growth if we excluded the JVs from that number? Probably make it better.
Yes.
Yeah we have been really increasing our wholly-owned more rapidly and we have actually been shrinking our community count in -- But I think even the performance for the JVs in terms of contracts per community is a little underperforming or consolidated.
Therefore if you excluded the JVs I think the percentage improvement would actually grow for August on a year-over-year basis.
Okay great.
Good to know.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Adam Steinberg with Waveny Capital.
Please proceed.
Yeah hi guys.
Thanks for taking the question.
I was just wondering if you guys could comment a little bit.
You talked about how bullish you are in recovery overall and when you look at the capital structure you've spoken about the bonds but you haven't mentioned a preferred.
I am just wondering if the coupon on that gets turned on in maybe a year or so what you're thinking about doing there and if there is an opportunity to buy those back? It has not been something we have really focused on -- to us the preferred equity and kind of put away as we get out fixed charge coverage ratio back up [indiscernible].
The Board's decision to turn back on the preferred payment which I think is likely but we haven't even discussed it with the Board as we haven't approached the two time fixed charge coverage ratio yet.
But I think we are going to focus our capital at this point in the cycle continuing to grow community count grow the top line.
I think that would be a better investment than trying to buy those preferreds back.
We haven't even discussed it so I don't know whether you have a different opinion.
I don't know.
I think that accurately reflects where we are.
Okay.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Kim of Barclays.
Please proceed.
Hey guys.
How are you? Hey.
Good.
Couple of questions for you; one first a theoretical question.
One thing we have observed is on this relatively depressed level of overall housing starts which you pointed out it seems to us that a lot of the public builders have broadened the price points which they are competing in and particularly have moved up would be probably the fairest way to say it.
There has been this migration.
I guess I was curious as to whether you think that's a temporary phenomenon that as the market comes back you will once again see builders focusing a little bit more on a particular price point to specialize in and one of the thoughts is that maybe right now when the private builder is having such a difficult time getting going that maybe there has been a better opportunity set for public builders to target a broader range of price points more effectively than maybe the case when we have normalized.
Do you have any thoughts on that? I am not sure if it was a strategic move on the part of homebuilders as much as having the flexibility to take advantage of the improved lots that are out there and deciding they wanted to be flexible with the improved lots.
But I am not sure if I could give anymore insight on that.
I mean our strategy as you probably recall for a long time has been a product array and we have done that for 20 years.
So we really haven't changed our strategy.
We did notice kind of early on in the downturn and trough that a lot of builders focused more on entry level and we actually in a number of markets did the exact opposite and kind of reduced entry level because there is just so much competition at that entry level.
So my guess is is that some of those same builders that increased their focus on entry level because those buyers didn't have a house to sell and other reasons that maybe made sense near the trough have said -- ratchet that back a little bit at this point in time and return to some of the stuff that we have done before as well as the argument that it’s a little harder to qualify the entry-level buyer than it has been in prior cycles.
But whether that's a permanent change or temporary change time will tell.
Okay.
And sort of a related question is you made a comment I think that your margin profile across higher end and somewhat lower end or a higher price point houses and lower price point houses is pretty similar.
I think you made that comment with respect to the potential for rates to rise and maybe customers going after perhaps somewhat cheaper home.
That seems -- that idea that margins are fairly constant or similar across price points.
Its interesting because generally I think the presumption is that higher price point homes are generally located in places where the land -- the whole entitlement process and the whole business about setting up and selling out of the community takes longer and so therefore in order to have a similar IRR you are going to have to have a higher margin.
So I was curious if you could elaborate a little bit more on that? Is this a particular point in time in which we are seeing this margin similarity? Just the discussion and maybe I wasn't perfectly clear was around margins of different model types at a particular location and the point being that if we offered five homes one that's at 2 500 square feet and one that's at 3 500 square feet on the high end and customers can select any one of the five our gross margin percentage is typically pretty similar at that community among the different product lines and that's gross margin percentage not gross margin dollars since obviously the higher average price multiplied by the same percentage gives you more dollars.
So that's the clarity and maybe that was confusing.
Your assumption is on point that generally speaking our average -- the gross margins on our higher priced communities tend to be higher although its really more affected by the way we buy the land.
If we buy land on a rolling lot option basis those tend to have lower gross margins the ones where we buy bulk land or developed land those tend to be higher gross margins and where you combine that with more expensive land they are even more higher; and the reason is that we solve to an IRR.
So you can achieve IRR with a high gross margin and a low churn or you can achieve it with a lower gross margin and a high churn and we are pretty much indifferent.
Great.
Now that is helpful.
That is a helpful clarification.
Steve let me just add a point.
I mean in a market like Texas where we offer higher priced homes and lower priced homes the margin is comparable.
I think the bigger factor is the last factor that Ara mentioned that's how we buy the land.
If you are buying in bulk or it's very expensive in California and you're behind in bulk you got to have a very high margin.
But it's more a factor of how you're buying the land.
I don't think there is a truth to -- you get higher margins for higher priced homes and Texas is a great example where a community where we have the most expensive homes we offer have similar gross margins to a community in Texas where we have some of our lower priced homes.
Okay that's interesting.
Last question it was your price point which -- the growth in the price.
Can you give us a sense for -- how much you think of that -- do you think may have been mix versus more sort of price point increase or price increases or lot option premiums or things like that? Heavily weighted to product and geographic mix rather than our ability to raise prices.
I talked about this in my prepared remarks and gave some specifics and that was for delivery.
The increase in the average price of home deliveries.
But if you look at our average price of contracts during the quarter compared to last year it's even more dramatic.
They went from 348 000 last year's third quarter to 381 000 this year and again -- although we do have some communities where we have been able to raise prices the vast majority of that increase is product and geographic mix.
Okay that's very helpful.
Thanks and great job guys.
Thank you.
That concludes our Q&amp;A.
I will now turn the call back over to Mr.
Ara Hovnanian.
Please proceed.
Great.
Thanks very much.
We are pleased with the progress and our third quarter results and we look forward to delivering an even better fourth quarter and certainly continued improved performance beyond that in 2015.
Thank you and we will talk to you next quarter.
This concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you for participating and have a nice day.
All parties may now disconnect.
And your next question comes from the line of Brendan Lynch from Sidoti.
Please proceed.
Ara you mentioned that opening new communities should be aided by your recent bond offering.
I had not really thought of your piece of community account growth as being capital constrained but more a factor of subs availability and sales capacity and other factors like that.
Can you just comment on what may potentially be the governor on getting the community count up over the next couple of years? Yes well frankly we were under invested for many many quarters.
So from that perspective capital was not a limiting governor.
It was just a matter of finding deals that met our hurdle rates.
But as you saw we are having more success in community acquisitions and getting to our investment goals.
But as we did that we thought it would be helpful to get a little bit of extra boost.
On top of that we have noticed -- which we anticipated but we noticed our newer acquisitions had a bigger mix of larger undeveloped sites rather than the smaller developed sites.
The smaller developed sites tend to take less capital.
The larger undeveloped ones take a little more capital.
In some cases we were able to utilize land bankers and therefore were able to purchase the lots from them on the basis that we prefer which is on a regular quarterly take down but that’s the not the case always.
So we just thought it would be a smart thing for us to do to get the excess capital right now.
And we also thought since there was a little bit of uncertainty in the market it would be a good and somewhat safer time to do a little land acquisition than when it was really growing steadily.
So -- in which cases land prices tend to go up a little irrationally sometimes.
So hopefully there is little more rationality in the market and we thought a better time to get in a little early before the market gets too much momentum on the recovery.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Well we’re pleased to report the quarter and some reasonable results.
Needless to say we’re anxious and look forward to even improve results going forward.
As we’ve kind of given a heads up unfortunately we’ll have lopsided quarterly revenues and earnings again.
But we’re continuing our path to get growth and we look forward to another good year of profitability.
Thanks so much.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning and thank you for joining us today for the Hovnanian Enterprises Fiscal 2015 First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
An archive of the webcast will be available after the completion of the call and run for 12 months.
This conference is being recorded for rebroadcast and all participants are currently in a listen-only mode.
Management will make some opening remarks about the first quarter results and then open the line for questions.
The company will also be webcasting a slide presentation along with the opening comments from management.
The slides are available on the Investor Relations' page of the company's website at www.khov.com.
Those listeners who would like to follow along should log on to the website at this time.
Before we begin I'd like to turn the call over to Jeff O'Keefe Vice President Investor Relations.
Jeff please go ahead.
Thank you Nicole and thank you all for participating in this morning's call to review the results for our first quarter which ended January 31 2015.
All statements in this conference call that are not historical facts should be considered as forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such statements involve known and unknown risks uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results performance or achievements of the company to be materially different from any future results performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements.
Although we believe that our plans intentions and expectations reflected in or suggested by such forward-looking statements are reasonable we can give no assurance that such plans intentions or expectations will be achieved.
Such risks uncertainties and other factors include but are not limited to changes in general and local economic industry and business conditions and impacts of the sustained homebuilding downturn; adverse weather and other environmental conditions and natural disasters; levels of indebtedness and restrictions on the company's operations and activities imposed by the agreements governing the company's outstanding indebtedness; the company's sources of liquidity; changes in credit ratings; changes in market conditions and seasonality of the company's business the availability and cost of suitable land and improved lots shortages in and price fluctuations of raw materials and labor regional and local economic factors including dependency on certain sectors of economy and employment levels affecting home prices and sales activity in the markets where the company builds homes fluctuations in interest rates and availability of mortgage financing changes in the tax laws affecting the after-tax costs of owning a home operations through joint ventures with third-parties government regulations including regulations concerning development of land the homebuilding sales and customer financing processes tax laws and the environment product liability litigation warranty claims and claims made by mortgage investors; levels of competition availability of financing to the company; successful identification and integration of acquisitions significant influence of the company's controlling stockholders availability of operating loss carry-forwards utility shortages and outages or rate fluctuations geopolitical risks terrorist acts and other acts of war and certain risks uncertainties and other factors described in detail in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31 2014 and subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Except as otherwise required by applicable securities laws we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events changed circumstances or any other reason.
Joining me today from the company are Ara Hovnanian Chairman President and CEO; Larry Sorsby Executive Vice President and CFO; Brad O'Connor Vice President Chief Accounting Officer and Controller; and David Valiaveedan Vice President of Finance and Treasurer.
I'll now turn the call over to Ara.
Ara go ahead? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Jeff.
Let me get started with our first quarter results which can be found on slide 3.
Starting on the upper left-hand portion of the slide you can see that our revenues increased 22% year-over-year from the first quarter of fiscal 2014.
Our revenue growth was driven by both an 11% increase in deliveries and a 10% increase in average sales price from $343 000 to $377 000.
The increase in the average sales price is primarily due to geographic and product mix changes similar to other recent quarter.
On our last conference call we said that we expected our 2015 full year gross margin to decline compared to our gross margin in fiscal 2014.
Moving along the top of the slide to the upper right-hand portion you can see that consistent with that guidance our homebuilding gross margin of 18.2% declined by 60 basis points during the first quarter of 2015 compared to last year's first quarter.
Moving to the lower left-hand quadrant we show that our SG&amp;A ratio decreased 210 basis points this quarter compared to the same period last year.
We also show that interest as a percentage of total revenues decreased by 80 basis points to 8.2% compared to last year's first quarter of 9%.
Given the solid top line growth we have for the first quarter these year-over-year improvements demonstrate the efficiencies we achieved through growing our top line.
Finally in the lower right-hand quadrant we show that both the first quarter growth in revenues and improvements in our SG&amp;A ratio led to adjusted EBITDA increasing 85% to $21 million during the first quarter compared to last year's first quarter.
Going forward we remain focused on generating further growth in revenues so that we can gain more efficiencies and return on our operating metrics to more normal levels.
On slide 4 we show quarterly pre-tax earnings for the past two years.
As you can see on the slide the first quarter is typically the slowest seasonal quarter each year and was negative in terms of profitability in both 2013 and 2014 while both years were profitable for the full year.
Pre-tax improvement was not as great as EBIT improvement because of the additional interest much of which was related to the bond offering at the beginning of the year to help us fuel our growth further.
Let me go into a little more detail about our gross margin and SG&amp;A.
As you can see on the left hand-side of slide 5 we show our annual gross margin percentage for the past four years.
After the Great Recession we saw our gross margin trough at 6.7% in 2008.
From that low point we began to achieve steady annual improvement in gross margin and return to a more normalized gross margin level of roughly 20% in both fiscal 2013 and 2014.
On the right hand-side of the slide you can see that we reported an 18.2% gross margin for the first quarter of 2015 6 basis points less than last year's first quarter.
Turning to slide 6 we show a trend of increasing the number of spec homes from the second quarter of 2013 to the fourth quarter of 2014.
We've come to the conclusion that we are a little too aggressive regarding specs and we recently decided to lower the spec levels in certain communities and deal with some of the older specs.
Starting in the late fall we both sell some of our older spec homes and to spur our overall spec sale pace we increased our incentive on those homes.
As a result we now expect our full year gross margin to be similar to the 18.2% level we reported in the first quarter.
The lower gross margin we experienced during the first quarter and the decline in our gross margin expectations for the full year is almost entirely attributable to the additional discounts we have given on the sale of our spec homes.
Interestingly reflecting strength in the overall housing market our gross margin on our to-be-built homes remains closer to our normalized gross margin of 20% and is now materially higher than the gross margin on spec homes.
The impact of offering higher incentives so that we can reduce the spec levels of certain communities will cause our second quarter gross margin to be about 100 basis points lower than the 18.2% we reported in the first quarter.
This margin erosion will adversely affect the second quarter year-over-year comparison.
We have already a progress in our spec reduction goals since the end of fourth quarter.
We've reduced our spec level by about 70 homes or 8%.
Although this strategy is painful in the short-term we expect our gross margin to improve in the second half of the year as we deliver fewer deeply discounted spec homes in the third and fourth quarters.
Additionally we've already begun to reduce the amount of incentives we're offering on spec homes which should have a positive impact on the gross margins we report in the second half of the year.
If the spring selling season continues to strengthen we'll reduce the incentives on our spec homes even further.
We still believe it's prudent to maintain a few started unsold homes in many of our communities to satisfy demand from buyers who are looking for a quicker closing date.
However we'll be more selective on where and how many we are building.
Given that we're early in the spring selling season we believe it's a little too early for us to give further guidance on our full year profitability.
We expect to reassess full-year guidance during the spring selling season and when it concludes we'll update you on our future conference calls.
Turning to slide 7 you can see that our SG&amp;A as a percentage of total revenues decreased year-over-year during the first quarter of 2015 to 14.5% from 16.6% in last year's first quarter.
Slide 8 we show that our annual total SG&amp;A expense as a percentage of total revenues going back all the way to fiscal 2001.
We consider about 10% as a normalized SG&amp;A ratio.
As we continue to generate future revenue growth and achieve more normalized sales pace per community we expect to be able to leverage our fixed SG&amp;A expenses further and get this ratio back to the normalized levels of 10%.
As we said in the past it's not going to happen overnight but we continue to make progress to bring this number down over time.
Turning now to our current sales environment on slide 9 we show the dollar amount of our consolidated net contracts per month for each of the past 12 months.
The most recent month is shown in blue.
The same month of the previous year is shown in yellow.
And we use green arrows pointing up to indicate an increase; and red arrows down obviously indicate a decrease.
Driven by the combination of increased community counts and more recently stronger sales results the past eight months have all had year-over-year increases.
While slide 9 showed total contracts slide 10 shows contracts per community.
On the left hand-side we show that after two years of improvements in sales pace per community in both fiscal 2012 and 2013 we saw a year-over-year decline in sales pace in fiscal 2014 to 28.4 sales per community from 30.7 sales per community in fiscal 2013.
That decline was not something we thought we'd see at this stage of the housing recovery.
The sales rate per community in 2014 was disappointing for our company and also for the entire industry.
Looking at the right-hand portion of the slide we show that after seeing decreases in the second and third quarter last year net contracts per community have improved for each of the last two quarters.
Feels good to see two quarters of year-over-year increases in contracts per community and it gives us the confidence that 2015 will be a stronger year from a sales pace perspective.
Slide 11 also shows contracts per community but this slide breaks it down on a monthly basis for more granularity.
For the past eight months we've had three months where our net contracts per community were flat year-over-year one month showing year-over-year decline and four months of year-over-year improvement.
We're certainly encouraged to begin the first three months of our new fiscal year with year-over-year increases in contracts per community; however the market is still a little choppy as evidenced by the month of February.
The weather in February certainly may have adversely impacted our sales pace but we're happy to say that the sales pace in March is off to a great start.
We remain optimistic for the remainder of the spring selling season.
On slide 12 we show that the number of net contracts increased 21% while the dollar amount of net contract increased 23% to $503 million.
Even if housing demand levels off for the rest of 2015 we believe the increased community count we've achieved to-date combined with the additional communities we plan to open later this year will position us to achieve higher levels of home sales in 2015 and will set us up to have a breakout year in 2016.
On the topic of community count slide 13 shows that our consolidated community count has grown steadily since the first quarter of 2013.
There's a lot of activity that goes into a net change of only six communities that we saw from the first quarter a year ago.
During the last 12 months we opened 94 new communities and closed out of 88 older ones.
In some markets we closed out of communities faster than we anticipated because of our increased sales pace which caused our community count to not increase as much as we had expected.
Additionally during the last half of calendar 2014 similar to what our other peers have experienced and made comments on in their calls we experienced some regulatory and developmental delays in getting new communities open across the country.
In spite of these delays we expect additional growth in community count during fiscal 2015 and we've made good progress during the month of February when we saw our consolidated community count increased sequentially by eight communities to 207 communities from 199 communities the prior month.
During fiscal 2014 we saw a shift in newly acquired land the lots that require more land development.
Given the overall increases in our inventory and the number of communities with longer lead-times to opening because of land development we expect to grow our community counts even more significantly during the latter part of 2015 and well into 2016.
Based on the growth in our community count net contracts and average selling price the dollar amount of our backlog has grown compared to last year.
On slide 14 we show the dollar amount of our backlog increased 14% to $926 million from $815 million at the end of last year's first quarter.
You can also see on the bottom of the slide the number of homes in backlog grew to 2 399 up from 2 223 last year.
This increase in backlog combined with community count growth gives us confidence that we'll be able to continue to grow our top line throughout the year.
As we move forward we are more convinced than ever that we need to continue to drive top line growth so that we can return to a more significant profitability.
Our land acquisition teams are busy throughout the country looking for new land opportunities that meet our underwriting criteria and we are confident that we'll be able to grow our community count further.
Any improvements in sales pace will only accelerate our growth.
I'll now turn it over to Larry Sorsby our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Director &amp; Executive VP</strong> Thanks Ara.
In light of lower oil prices there has been a lot of investor interest in Houston.
Slide 15 shows some of the details of our Houston operations.
For the trailing 12 months Houston accounted for 16% of our homebuilding revenues.
And as of the end of the first quarter our inventory in Houston was only 10% of our total homebuilding inventory.
About half of that inventory consist of homes under-construction or completed and that is the least risky inventory component we have.
So even though 16% of our 2014 home revenues were from Houston we don't have much in the way of capital tied up in that market.
Houston is primarily a market where you control land through option contracts with quarterly finished lot takedowns.
And therefore it is not as capital-intensive as our other markets.
To further illustrate this point as of January 31 2015 we controlled 3 095 lots in Houston.
More than 50% of those lots are currently optioned with a deposit of only $4.9 million.
This represents an average option deposit of 6.2% in Houston compared with our company average of a 7.5% deposit.
If the Houston market started to materially deteriorate we would be able to renegotiate our option contracts or walk away from our option contracts with only a modest expense.
Our owned land position in Houston is relatively short at about a 13-month supply.
This 13-month supply in Houston compares to our company-wide average supply of 31 months of owned lots excluding mothballed lots in the remainder of our markets.
At the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2015 in Houston we had 48 active selling communities and another 12 communities in planning.
As further evidence of the continued strength of the Houston housing market during the first quarter we sold out of eight communities faster than we had expected and had four communities where openings were delayed due to land sellers being behind on their land development schedules.
For the first quarter our Houston net contracts per community year-over-year were flat and at quarter-end our year-over-year dollar backlog in Houston was up 14%.
At this point we see no evidence that the Houston market for new home sales has been materially impacted by the decline in oil prices.
However we remain concerned about the potential impact of lower oil prices may have and we'll continue to carefully monitor the situation.
Now that we've addressed the Houston market let me transition to a discussion about our land position.
Turning to slide 16 you'll see our owned and optioned land position broken out by our publicly-reported market segments.
Our investment in the land optioned deposits was $92 million on January 31 2015 with $91 million in cash deposits and $1 million of deposits being held by letters of credit.
Additionally we have another $14 million invested in pre-development expenses.
Turning now to slide 17 we show our mothballed lots broken out by geographic segment.
In total we have 5 971 mothballed lots within 45 communities were mothballed as of January 31 2015.
The book value at the end of the first quarter for these remaining mothballed lots was $104 million net of an impairment balance of $412 million.
We're carrying these mothballed lots at 20% of the original value.
As we mentioned on our last conference call assuming current market conditions remain steady we anticipate un-mothballing approximately 900 lots in fiscal 2015 in two locations one in Natomas California and the other along the Hudson River Waterfront in New Jersey.
Every quarter we review each of our mothballed communities to see if they are ready to be put back into production.
Looking at all of our consolidated communities in the aggregate including mothballed communities we have an inventory book value of $1.5 billion net of $564 million of impairments.
We've recorded those impairments on 70 of our communities.
For the properties that have been impaired we're carrying them at 20% of their pre-impaired value.
Another area of discussion for the quarter is related to our deferred tax asset valuation allowance.
During the fourth quarter we've reversed $285 million of our deferred tax asset valuation allowance.
We will reverse some of the remaining valuation allowance when we begin to generate higher levels of sustained profitability.
Back when we had a valuation allowance covering the full value of our deferred tax assets other than minor amounts related to federal or state tax reserves any income tax benefit or expense was offset by adjustments in the valuation allowance resulting in no income tax benefit or expense on the income statement.
Now that we've reversed a portion of the valuation allowance income tax benefit or expenses reflected in the income statement consistent with how we've reported taxes prior to having a valuation allowance.
At the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2015 our valuation allowance in the aggregate was $643 million.
The remaining valuation allowance is a very significant asset not currently reflected on our balance sheet and we've taken numerous steps to protect it.
We will not have to pay cash federal income taxes on approximately $2 billion of pre-tax earnings.
On slide 18 we show that we ended the first quarter with a total shareholders' deficit of $130 million.
If you add back the remaining valuation allowance as we've done on this slide then our shareholders' equity would be a positive $513 million.
Over time we believe that we can repair our balance sheet by returning to higher levels of profitability and have no intentions of issuing equity anytime soon.
Now let me update you on our mortgage operations.
Turning to slide 19.
You can see that the credit quality of our mortgage customers continues to remain strong with average FICO scores of 745.
For the first quarter of fiscal 2015 our mortgage company captured 71% of our non-cash home-buying customers which was an improvement compared to the 65% capture rate for all of 2014.
Turning to slide 20.
We show a breakout of all the various loan types originated by our mortgage operations for the first quarter of 2015 compared to all of fiscal year 2014.
Our percentage of FHA loans increased from 12% during the fourth quarter of 2014 to 15% for the first quarter of fiscal 2015.
Given the recent reduction in FHA mortgage insurance cost it is likely that our percentage of FHA originations will continue to rise.
Recently there has been a number of modifications to mortgage underwriting criteria that are incremental positives such as the removing of credit overlays and the reduction in mortgage insurance costs for FHA loans.
Although this loosening of credit standards is a step in the right direction that creates slightly easier mortgage credit conditions for homebuyers none of these are game-changers.
As seen on slide 21 after spending $226 million on land and land development during the first quarter we still ended the first quarter with $325 million of liquidity which includes $274 million of homebuilding cash and $51 million undrawn under our $75 million unsecured revolving line of credit.
We ended the quarter in excess of our target liquidity range of $170 million to $245 million.
Having raised $250 million of debt at the beginning of the first quarter we took some near-term steps in order to more fully deploy that cash.
These steps allowed us to avoid the negative arbitrage of paying interest both on our new debt and interest on items such as non-recourse mortgages model sale leasebacks and land banking arrangements.
However we will reactivate these programs when we decide to increase our liquidity or deploy additional cash to grow our land position even further.
Now turning to our debt maturity ladder which can be found on slide 22 the red bars on this slide represent unsecured debt.
We believe that we have the ability today to refinance all of our unsecured debt that matures between 2015 and 2017.
However in order to reduce the high cost associated with the make-whole provisions we're not likely to pay off or refinance those bonds until such time as we're closer to the maturity dates.
Needless to say we feel good about our liquidity position and we'll continue with land purchases that meet our 25%-plus unlevered underwriting hurdle rates based on today's construction cost home prices and absorption rates.
As you can see on slide 23 beginning in the second half of 2012 the number of net additions to our lot count has exceeded the number of deliveries by about 9 900 lots.
After walking away from 1 700 lots during the first quarter our net additions totaled 400 lots which was lower than the 1 220 deliveries we achieved in the first quarter.
Our option deposits are typically fully refundable during the due-diligence time period so these walk-aways resulted in only modest charges primarily consisting of investigative expenses during the first quarter.
This was the second consecutive quarter that our net additions fell below our quarterly deliveries and is reflective of our decision to remain disciplined in our underwriting approach.
Despite the slower housing market during the latter half of 2013 and into 2014 land sellers have been reluctant to adjust land prices downward and as a result the pace of our land acquisitions have slowed.
If the increase in sales pace per community we've experienced during the past two quarters continues we believe the pace of land acquisitions will likely increase going forward.
Taking into account that we plan to grow deliveries in both fiscal 2015 and 2016 we currently control all the land needed for our projected 2015 deliveries and over 90% of the land we need for our projected 2016 deliveries.
Assuming no changes in market conditions this gives us the confidence that 2016 should be a breakout year and that we will not only be able to grow our deliveries but also expect to achieve a substantially higher level of profitability in 2016 than we achieved during the past two years.
We have plenty of liquidity and our land acquisition teams continue to work hard across the country to identify new land parcels.
We remain focused on controlling more land opening more communities and growing our top line in order to leverage our fixed cost.
Recently we launched a completely redesigned website at www.khov.com.
Not only does it provide a much richer environment for our customers to find the information they want to know about both the company and our communities but we also revamped our Investor Relations section to make it easier for each of you to find the data you want as well.
With that I'll turn it back over to Ara for some brief closing comments.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Larry.
There were many positive trends that we reported in the first quarter such as revenue growth year-over-year increase in sales pace per community and the growth in our backlog.
Obviously we were disappointed with the gross margin for our first quarter and our expectations for gross margin in the second quarter.
Nonetheless we are confident that we are taking the steps in fiscal 2015 to position ourselves for dramatically improved results in 2016.
Our new fiscal year begins in about seven months.
We're planning substantial growth in communities during this year.
We'll have additional interest and SG&amp;A associated with opening many new communities but the short-term pain should set us up for a breakout year in 2016 as Larry just mentioned with significantly greater revenues and profitability and far better leveraging of our SG&amp;A and interest.
That concludes our formal remarks and we'll be happy to open it up for questions.
Thank you.
The company will now answer questions.
So that everyone has an opportunity to ask questions participants will be limited to one question and one follow up.
After which they will have the option to return back to the queue.
At this time we will open the call for questions.
Our first question comes from the line of Alan Ratner of Zelman &amp; Associates.
Your line is now open.
Hey good morning guys.
Thanks for taking my question.
First question on the February order trends pretty significant slowdown from what you saw in the quarter.
Was – I know you mentioned weather as a possible headwind there but I was curious if you can give any color on what you saw specifically in Houston in February and also maybe just talk a little bit more about what you're hearing from your salespeople about what could have caused that – at least the sequential decline in absorptions in February which is pretty unusual for this time of year.
Director &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> Yeah as I tried to elaborate with a lot of detail Houston continues to be performing quite well into February into March.
So Houston wasn't any significant impact.
I just think it was a little slower.
The only thing we can come up with is maybe weather in some of our markets but we're very pleased that the first couple of weeks in March that little slower trend we saw in February completely reversed and the market seems to be back stronger again.
So that's about all the color I can give you.
Okay great.
I appreciate that.
Second question just on the spec strategy I think that you mentioned you – in retrospect maybe you built a few more specs than you should have.
But with the demand environment accelerating nicely in the spring selling season I think if anything we hear that inventory is very tight in the marketplace.
It would seem like having a few more specs on the ground would be a good problem to have quite frankly.
So I was curious is there – are there specific markets where you feel you're over-weighted to specs right now? Or were you seeing something different from the demand side on your specs versus your to-be-built meaning the buyers just are not looking for a spec home right now because given the demand I would assume that you should have a little bit of pricing power on that inventory given how tight the resale market is right now? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think the issue is very situational.
I think we got a little higher in certain markets like the Virginia market for example.
It doesn't tend to be a spec market and we probably got a little over anxious there.
Also in some of our – we built more specs than normal at some of our higher price points.
So I think – and finally I think we had built some specs that we just – had been around for a while and I think our divisions were not being realistic in right-pricing certain locations.
So just felt like it was time to do a little clearing of house of some of the older specs and bring a little more balance community by community.
We're leaving it up to the divisions but I think we clearly felt like we got just a little ahead of ourselves and trying to fine-tune the strategy on a very site specific basis.
Director &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> We agree with your comment that you would think that with the small supply of existing homes in many markets that we should have some pricing power when we're meeting the demand of a consumer that needs to move in rapidly.
However historic trends for new homebuilders are to slightly discount spec homes especially as they age a bit in the field the realtor community really knows that that happens and educates our prospects on that fact and expect discounts even though logic would say that we ought to get even more price if we can meet the specific need of moving a customer in more rapidly but the facts of the matter is the opposite occurs.
Okay.
Thanks a lot and good luck.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut of JPMorgan.
Your line is now open.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
First question I just had I wanted to just kind of review and make sure I'm fully capturing the updated guidance around the gross margins.
So previously you had said that you expected fiscal 2015 gross margins pre-interest to be around like roughly flattish with 2014's 19.9% and now you're saying you expect it to be closer to the first quarter's 18.2% is that correct? Director &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> No.
Previously we said it was going to be flattish around the fourth quarter's 19.2% 19.3% I don't have it memorized.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> 3 (34:25).
Director &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> 3 (34:26).
Okay.
Director &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> 19.3% (34:27) for the full year and now we're saying it's going to be around the 18.2% we've reported for the first quarter with a step-down from that 18.2% in the second quarter by about 100 basis points.
Okay.
No thanks for that clarification.
So – and then the interest amortization in COGS in fiscal 2014 was 2.6%.
Would that be a similar number in 2015 or a little bit higher or lower? Director &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> It's a reasonable assumption for you to make that it's – follow what it was last year.
Okay.
And then just on the gross margins as well.
The – you mentioned the de-mothballing of lots and is about – you expect 900 lots in fiscal 2015.
I was wondering if you could give us a sense of how much in terms of closings percent of closings do you expect – closings from these de-mothballed communities to be as a percent of the total and the gross margins of these closings relative to the broader corporate average.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well first of all one of those communities that we're un-mothballing is a 12-story or 13-story building so we'll be starting that in the spring with kind of two-year construction cycle.
So don't expect much impact from that.
But given that it's a larger building those generally have higher gross margins to compensate for the longer build time.
And that's on the Gold Coast of New Jersey overlooking Manhattan and the river.
The other large one we're un-mothballing is on the West Coast in Northern California.
It's going to start really in the fall so the impact is just not going to move the needle in terms of our overall delivery projection.
So I know you're looking for a little more specific guidance but I'd say don't get hung up on the un-mothballing effect.
I just don't recall from memory the gross margin projection for that compared to the overall average.
But again it doesn't start until the fall and just not going to meaningful (37:17) in the overall scheme of (37:18).
Director &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> I think neither is going to have any impact on gross margin in 2015 and in 2016 it will be an insignificant impact up or down as Ara mentioned.
Okay.
One last one if I could guys.
Any thoughts around closings and ASPs for the full year? I know obviously a lot has to depend on the spring but at least now that you're seeing – you're kind of getting into the second quarter and maybe directionally you can give us a sense of ASPs and then maybe perhaps some type of a range for closings? Director &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> We're just not prepared to give more guidance than we did in the formal part of our scripted call.
I mean you can be encouraged that we had seven – an increase of seven in the community count in this last month.
So that gives you a little bit of an insight.
And we also gave you some insight that we expect community count to continue to grow in the latter half of this year.
And that will impact sales more than it's going to impact deliveries this year but it's really setting up 2016.
All right great.
Thanks Larry.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of David Goldberg of UBS.
Your line is now open.
Good morning.
It's actually Sue on for David.
My first question goes back to the difficulty that you talked about in terms of acquiring lot.
Have you made any adjustments to your underwriting in order to perhaps be more aggressive and to win more of those deals? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So we're trying to stay disciplined and that's why it didn't make as much progress this quarter.
We just think it's the smart way to go.
But we're finding sufficient opportunities.
And I think we mentioned we're in great shape for our planned fiscal 2016 deliveries already in terms of land acquisition.
And that includes substantial growth.
So we don't feel pressured to make the land acquisitions or lower our underwriting criteria right now.
Director &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> Actually we did the opposite.
After the first half of 2014 showed slower contracts per community we actually increased our hurdle rate from 20% to 25% because of the uncertainty of the markets.
And when we were spending the money and buying land we wanted to make sure that they were good deals.
So we actually increased our hurdle rate.
In spite of that increase in hurdle rate we've continued to find deals but we also during the due diligence period on our other deals if they didn't underwrite to that kind of a level or we found some other issues that caused us pause during the due diligence period we walked away from.
But we're in fine shape.
Our teams are very busy out there and I would expect the pace of our land acquisitions to grow in the future.
Okay thanks.
That's very helpful.
And then in terms of your liquidity range you've been very consistent in the range that you've given us throughout the sort of improvement that we've seen in demand.
As we get closer to fiscal 2016 which as you said could potentially be a breakout year for you could we see you get maybe a little more aggressive in that in terms of maybe moving to the lower end of the range or maybe even just changing the range? Director &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> I think we'll probably keep the range somewhere to what it is now and as we see opportunities to invest in land at or near the bottom of this cycle we would like to get into the range or even to the bottom of the range.
It's really more a function of finding sufficient land deals that meet our underwriting hurdle rates rather than our desire to manage that number higher than our range.
So as we find deals we're going to invest.
And I would say that's going to be true all the way through 2015 and into 2016.
And then at some point if we think the industry is beginning to kind of see some significant growth in housing starts and approach higher and higher levels of starts across the country that's when we would want to begin to kind of tap on the break of our investment and maybe build our cash position higher or even start to pay off debt.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line Joel Locker of FBN Securities.
Your line is now open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi guys.
Just talk about the February orders down 2% and then a March pickup you've seen in the last week and a half or so.
Is that – I mean March last year was 20% absorption rates and seems like that might be traditional seasonal.
So are you seeing more than just the actual 20% increase in seasonality that kind of goes from February to March or is it just an increase from February? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We're – I mean we try to give a lot of granularity and that's why we report the most current month even though when it's after the quarter and we try to give a flavor for March.
But we've only had two weekends.
We don't want to be uber-specific.
But suffice it to say we're very pleased with the March start so far.
Inc.</span></strong> All right thanks.
And just a follow up on direct costs.
What were they up or down year-over-year in the fourth quarter per square feet? Director &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> I don't think we have that number at our fingertips.
But I mean I can give you kind of a generic answer to that and that is that I think most of the cost pressure that we experienced in 2013 in terms of both labor and materials abated during 2014.
So my expectation though I don't have the specifics on a per-square-foot basis at my fingertips is we didn't see much of a change.
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
All right thanks a lot guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from James Finnerty of Citi.
Your line is now open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> So just looking at your specs on slide 6 what percentage of say 1Q specs were located in Houston? Can you give us an idea of that? Director &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> Jeff do we have that? If you got another question while we're looking that up...
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Sure thing.
And the one bigger picture question is regarding liquidity in 2015 do you see any need – I know you said you don't want to raise equity is there any need to raise additional capital in 2015 based on what you're looking to do in terms of community count and in terms of de-mothballing the building in New Jersey? Director &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> Debt comes due in October of 2015 so we'll either pay that off or refinance it as we get closer to that maturity date.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
But the plan is not net additional capital.
The property the 12-story building we referred to on the New Jersey coast highly likely we'll have a joint venture partner on that.
And we already owned the land without any project-specific debt on it.
So we don't anticipate that to be a big drain.
And so overall we feel very comfortable with the capital position and we don't have any expectations to go to the market to increase although at some point we will go to market just to refinance a few dollars of the short-term maturities coming up.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay thank you.
Director &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> As of the end of February just a little over 200 of our total specs were located in Houston.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> A little over 200.
Great.
Thank you very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You're welcome.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Brendan Lynch of Sidoti &amp; Co.
Your line is now open.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my questions.
First Ara you mentioned that there have been some regulatory and development delays in opening new communities.
Can you tell us what has changed recently to cause these delays? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
Well first there have been more communities as I've mentioned that we're acquiring that needed land development and along with that some final entitlements.
This has been a shift that accelerated a bit this past year.
So what that means is as opposed to having lots on the ground streets in and you're not needing to go back to the municipalities more recently we and all of our peers have had to go back to the municipalities.
And that's just delayed municipalities because they haven't – they've had years of very little activity as of course overall activity was down in general plus we were all building sites that had already been through the process.
So there's just a little bit of a bottleneck; more than most of us expected.
Great.
That's helpful.
And you also mentioned that the pace of net additions to your total lot count waned a bit and you're finding it harder to source land.
What besides price are the particular constraints and are there are particular markets where you're finding it particularly difficult and do you anticipate this is temporary? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I do anticipate it being temporary.
We go through these periods.
Land prices are always sticky on the way down.
So we underwrite always to current market and since we saw a little more price and pace challenge our underwriting standards reflected that and that translates to sometimes lower prices; and sellers weren't willing to do it.
But as I mentioned we feel pretty good about our land position.
We're well out in front and have most of next year quite secure.
So we can afford to be selective right now.
Director &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> And that's after expecting some significant increase in community count deliveries in 2016 too.
So it already takes that into account when we say virtually – well most of it.
90%-plus of our expected 2016 deliveries are already tied up from a land perspective.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut of JPMorgan.
Your line is now open.
Thanks.
Thanks for taking my follow up.
I just wanted to clarify a couple of quick things.
When you discussed Texas I think – or was it – I think it's Houston more specifically just wanted to make sure I heard it right that you said Houston orders in the first quarter were flat.
Is that right? Director &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> I said per community they're flat.
Yes.
Okay.
And did you have any commentary on – when you talked earlier I think it was the first question out there about the February trend reversing in March was that more of a broad-based overall company statement or was that – was there anything about Houston trends in that statement in terms of February being down a little bit but reversing in March? Director &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> Nothing Houston-specific in that comment; it was broad company consolidated comment.
Okay.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We know people find it surprising but given what's happening with oil prices and I think our peers are seeing the same thing generally that is that the Houston market just remains quite tight and solid; so at this point no issues.
We don't tend to build in many of the big master plans that can get a little overheated.
We do a little more infill quite a bit more infill and in less intensely crowded location.
So that could have an effect on it as well.
We're also quite active in the non-oil patch part.
Houston as you probably know has huge medical area as well.
So we're nicely balanced and we're having great results right now in Houston.
Director &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> Given the interest in Houston I'll give everybody one more little factoid and that is – is that similar to our consolidated comment about a pickup in sales in March versus February on a consolidated basis we saw that exact same thing in Houston.
So the last couple of weeks Houston sales for whatever reason have also been stronger.
That's helpful.
And I know you kind of also tried to offer ideas around why February was down a little bit and maybe you pointed to some weather issues but were you surprised aside from that because typically the sales pace in February would be demonstrably stronger than January as you saw last year? And so now it was a little bit softer.
So did it – I mean was there anything also about perhaps the number of new communities that opened in January versus February? I know your total active community count went up so I don't know if that's the case.
But that slightly lower sales pace in February versus January I think was what was also a little surprising.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Frankly it was a little surprising to us as well.
We had made some great progress as we reported in the quarter overall.
I can only think that some record weather particularly in the Northeast but even snow in Dallas has had an effect.
But we're not overly concerned.
Again March is off to a great start.
So we think – just hopefully just was a little postponement based on some odd factors.
Right.
Director &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> Just a little choppiness so...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Director &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> ...we'll see as we go forward.
We remain quite optimistic about the remainder of the spring selling season.
Fair enough.
I appreciate it guys.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Nishu Sood of Deutsche Bank.
Your line is now open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
This is Rob Hansen on for Nishu.
I just wanted to kind of return to the specs a little bit.
And I just wanted to kind of get an idea what was the kind of average age of these specs? And I just wanted to confirm right you kind of mentioned it this is more targeted in certain markets.
And then just looking at this from a bigger kind of gross-margin perspective is this largely a kind of 1Q 2Q event for you folks? And then kind of the back half of the year we start to see kind of more normalized margins like – well closer to normalized margins kind of like how we saw in 2014.
Director &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> Yeah.
Let me tackle that.
I tried to give pretty good granularity in the script on this point.
But I would say that the falloff in gross margins that we saw in the first quarter and the further falloff that we're expecting to see in the second quarter another 100 basis points down is almost entirely weighted towards the actions that we've taken on specs to sell both the older specs and some of the specs where we had too many in particular communities and we've consciously tried to reduce.
And then the other piece of data that we gave you all was that we expect margins to pick back up in the second half of the year or the third quarter and fourth quarter for that to happen either we're expecting the gross margin on our to-be-builts to increase or we're expecting our margins on specs to increase I'll just tell you we're expecting our margins on specs to climb back up somewhat to where we can come to that year average of 18.2% or so.
And there might even be more upside to that if the spring selling season continues to be strong.
So most of the erosion that we're seeing if not all of it is related to the actions we've taken on specs.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
And what is the kind of dirt sale – what's the kind of difference between a dirt sale and a spec sale kind of normally for you folks? And then what is the gap going to kind of widen to here? Director &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> &gt;: I'm not sure we're prepared to give you the – what is going to widen to but traditionally somewhere around 150 basis points might be the difference between a to-be-built and a spec.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Thanks.
That's all I have for now.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay thanks.
Thank you.
I'm showing no further questions at this time.
I'd like to hand the call back over to Ara Hovnanian for any closing remarks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Great.
Thank you very much.
Well again we're optimistic on the spring selling season and we'll look forward to reporting some good results in our next quarter.
Thank you.
That concludes our conference for today.
Thank you for participating and have a nice day.
All participants may now disconnect.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for Hovnanian Enterprises Fiscal 2015 Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
An archive of the webcast will be available after the completion of the call and run for 12 months.
This conference is being recorded for rebroadcast and all participants are currently in a listen-only mode.
Management will make some opening remarks about the second quarter results and then open up the lines for questions.
The company will also be webcasting a slide presentation along with the opening comments from management.
The slides are available on the Investor Relations' page on the company's website at www.khov.com.
Those listeners who would like to follow along should log on to the website at this time.
Before we begin I'd like to turn the call over to Jeff O'Keefe Vice President-Investor Relations.
Jeff please go ahead.
Thank you Amanda and thank you all for participating in this morning's call to review the results for our second quarter which ended April 30 2015.
All statements in this conference call that are not historical facts should be considered as forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such statements involve known and unknown risks uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results performance or achievements of the company to be materially different from any future results performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements.
Although we believe that our plans intentions and expectations reflected in or suggested by such forward-looking statements are reasonable we can give no assurance such plans intentions or expectations will be achieved.
Such risks uncertainties and other factors include but are not limited to changes in general and local economic industry and business conditions and impacts of the sustained homebuilding downturn; adverse weather and other environmental conditions and natural disasters; levels of indebtedness and restrictions on the company's operations and activities imposed by the agreements governing the company's outstanding indebtedness; the company's sources of liquidity; changes in credit ratings; changes in market conditions and seasonality of the company's business the availability and cost of suitable land and improved lots shortages in and price fluctuations of raw materials and labor; regional and local economic factors including dependency on certain sectors of the economy and employment levels affecting home prices and sales activity in the markets where the company builds homes; fluctuations in interest rates and availability of mortgage financing; changes in tax laws affecting the after-tax cost of owning a home operations through joint ventures with third-parties government regulation including regulations concerning development of land the homebuilding sales and customer financing processes tax laws and the environment product liability litigation warranty claims and claims made by mortgage investors; levels of competition; availability of financing to the company; successful identification and integration of acquisitions; significant influence of the company's controlling stockholders; availability of operating loss carry-forwards; utility shortages and outages or rate fluctuations; geopolitical risks terrorist acts and other acts of war; and certain risks uncertainties and other factors described in detail in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31 2014 and subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Except as otherwise required by applicable securities laws we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events changed circumstances or any other reason.
Joining me today from the company are Ara Hovnanian Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; Larry Sorsby Executive Vice President and CFO; Brad O'Connor Vice President Chief Accounting Officer and Controller.
I'll now turn the call over to Ara.
Ara go ahead.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Jeff.
Let me get started with our second quarter results which can be found on slide three.
Our net contract dollars increased 5% despite a slight decline in the number of net contracts we signed.
This is due to a higher average sales price primarily as a result of product mix.
We successfully opened up more communities during the quarter and as a result our active communities grew 6% year-over-year.
However our net contracts per community declined 5% year-over-year negating the benefits of the increased community count.
Our contract backlog was stronger at the end of the second quarter growing to $1.171 billion.
The dollar amount of backlog increased 12% and the number of homes in backlog increased 6%.
This growth in the backlog gives us confidence that we'll be able to continue to grow our top line in the second half of fiscal 2015 and improve our performance.
Our total revenues grew by 4%.
This growth was driven by a 5% increase in average sales price which was offset by a 1% decline in deliveries.
Similar to what we've experienced in other recent quarters the increase in the average sales price is primarily due to geographic and product mix changes and not related to our ability to raise prices on our homes.
Unfortunately our second quarter gross margin declined by 410 basis points and our total SG&amp;A as a percentage of total revenues increased by 80 basis points.
I'll go into more detail about these metrics in just a moment.
While we began the year with a year-over-year improvement in our first quarter results we took a step backwards during the second quarter of fiscal 2015 and our loss increased in the second quarter compared to a year ago.
The second quarter of 2015 was challenging for us.
As we move forward we're very focused on generating further growth in revenues so that we can gain more efficiencies.
In addition we're very focused on improving the results of our weaker divisions and thereby returning our operating metrics to more normal levels.
Let me go into a little more detail about our gross margin and SG&amp;A.
And as you can see on the left-hand side of slide four we show our annual gross margin percentage for the last four years.
We're pleased that we made solid progress from 2011 to 2012 to 2013 returning to more normalized gross margin levels of roughly 20% in both fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2014.
However we've taken a step back in 2015.
On the right-hand side of the slide you can see that we reported a 16.1% gross margin for the second quarter 410 basis points less than last year's second quarter.
As we discussed last quarter we expected the second quarter gross margin to be weak because of offering more incentives and concessions on started unsold homes commonly referred to as spec homes.
We're not the only homebuilder that recently felt pressure on its gross margin.
On slide five we show all nine of the public builders that reported March quarter end results all of them had year-over-year declines in gross margin.
Five of them had margin declines in excess of 200 basis points and one was similar to our decline.
Nonetheless it doesn't make us feel great about our decline.
On slide six we show a trend of increasing the number of specs per community from the second quarter of 2014 to the fourth quarter of 2014.
As we explained during our analyst call last quarter we believe we were too aggressive in our spec starts especially in certain geographies and communities.
We took action to reduce our specs with special incentives and concessions.
Unfortunately as you would expect that took a toll on our margins.
However we made progress on our goal of reduction.
The number of specs per community declined to 4.1 specs at the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2015 which is below the recent peak of 4.7 specs per community at the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014.
Let me explain the negative impact that specs had on our gross margin during the second quarter and why we think the gross margin will improve during the remainder of fiscal 2015.
Turning to slide seven our gross margin during the second quarter of 2015 was less than we thought primarily because of additional incentives and concessions as I said earlier that we offered on specs.
The following numbers exclude Houston where our gross margins continued to improve during the second quarter.
Margins on our to-be-built homes declined 220 basis points during the second quarter of fiscal 2015 compared to last year's second quarter.
Relative to our peers' margin declines our decline in gross margins on to-be-built homes would have put us in the middle of the pack.
However margins on our spec homes declined two times that amount or 450 basis points over the same time period.
You can clearly see from these numbers that the bulk of the pressure on gross margin was from spec home deliveries.
Furthermore the percentage of deliveries from spec homes in the second quarter increased to 52% in this year's second quarter from 42% in last year's second quarter.
It's difficult for spec homes to be sold with lower gross margins than to-be-built homes but the increased incentives we offered over the last six months exacerbated the typical spread.
Because 25% of the deliveries were specs sold during the quarter the impact was greater than we anticipated when we provided guidance during our first quarter conference call.
Spec deliveries in the second quarter of 2015 increased to 52% of our total deliveries from 46% in the first quarter.
Given the current level of specs and our expectations for specs per community going forward we believe the percentage of quarterly spec deliveries will gravitate back to the low 40% range over the next several quarters.
Turning to slide eight we show that the discount on spec homes compared to to-be-built homes was 250 basis points during the second quarter of 2014 and that we increased the discount on spec homes compared with to-be-built homes to 480 basis points during the second quarter of 2015.
The discount on specs compared to to-be-built homes appears to have peaked this quarter.
It was 230 basis points higher than it was in the second quarter a year ago.
Clearly you can see that we are aggressive in taking action to bring our spec position into better balance by geography and by community.
Last quarter we warned you that we were increasing incentives on our specs.
Now I'm happier to say that we are scaling back our incentive and concessions that we are offering on spec homes and we've already begun to see the spread trending toward normalized levels.
The trend of fewer specs as a percentage of total deliveries and a more normal spread between specs and to-be-built homes should lead to sequential improvements in gross margin in the final two quarters of fiscal 2015.
It should also lead to an improved gross margin in fiscal 2016.
Now turning to slide nine you can see that our SG&amp;A as a percentage of total revenues increased year-over-year during the second quarter of 2015 to 14.7 % from 13.9% in last year's second quarter.
The majority of this increase was related to our efforts to grow our community count including higher compensation costs related to increased staffing and increased architectural expenses.
Once these new communities begin to deliver we expect to further leverage our fixed SG&amp;A expenses.
Our SG&amp;A ratio for the full fiscal 2015 year should be similar to last year and should decline in 2016.
On slide 10 we show our annual total SG&amp;A expense as a percentage of total revenues going back to 2001.
We consider about 10% as a normalized SG&amp;A ratio.
As we continue to generate further revenue growth and achieve more normalized sales pace per community we expect to be able to leverage our fixed SG&amp;A expenses further and get this ratio back to normalized levels of 10%.
As we've said in the past it's not going to happen overnight but we will continue to make progress to bring this number down over time.
I'll now turn it over to Larry Sorsby our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Director &amp; Executive VP</strong> Thanks Ara.
Turning now to our current sales environment on slide 11 we show the dollar amount of our consolidated net contracts per month for each of the past 12 months.
The most recent month is shown in blue the same month of the previous year is shown in yellow and we used green arrows pointing up to indicate an increase and down red arrows to indicate a decrease.
Driven by the combination of increased community counts and more recently stronger sales result 10 of the past 12 months have had year-over-year increases.
In May the first month of our third quarter we saw an increase of 18.6% in the dollar amount of net contracts.
While slide 10 showed the dollar amount of net contracts slide 12 shows the number of monthly net contracts per community.
While there have been more positive than negative monthly comparisons recently the market still seems a bit choppy.
If you take a step back and recall the steps that we took in the spring selling season of 2014 some of the fluctuations for us make sense.
In March 2014 we did a national sales promotion called Big Deal Days.
It was highly successful and we had 3.4 contracts per community during the month of March 2014 making that a very tough year-over-year comparison.
But it likely pulled demand forward because we fell to 2.9 contracts per community in April 2014 which created an easier comparison for the same month this year.
So it should not be a surprise that net contracts per community declined year-over-year in March 2015 and increased in April 2015.
With sales promotion or no sales promotion the market still feels a bit tentative right now.
On slide 13 we try to put the current sales situation into perspective with a longer-term view.
The dark-blue bar shows the average net contracts per community for 1997 through 2002 a period of neither boom nor bust times.
Then in yellow we show net contracts per community bottoming in 2011 followed by two years of improvements in 2012 and 2013.
Surprisingly we in the homebuilding industry took a step backwards in sales pace per community in 2014.
Looking at the light-blue bar it shows that the seasonally adjusted trailing 12-month net contracts per community increased to 30.4 and is approaching the 30.7 contract per community level we saw in 2013.
This is certainly a step in the right direction and will hopefully continue or improve in the back half of this year.
I want to provide a brief update on what we're seeing in Houston.
Our profitability in Houston remains solid with gross margins and revenues expected to increase over last year.
The margins that we currently have in our backlog remain solid and we continue to have pricing power in Houston.
Turning to slide 14 you can see our quarterly net contracts per community in Houston for 2013 2014 and 2015.
With net contracts increasing to 9.1 per community in the second quarter of 2014 you can clearly see how white hot the Houston market was in the second quarter last year.
While we do not believe it's related to the declining oil prices our sales pace during the second quarter this year cooled to 6.9 net contracts per community.
The decline in our second quarter sales pace was due to a combination of factors including a very difficult year-over-year comparison and the fact that we intentionally slowed down or stopped selling homes in certain communities where our land developers were significantly delayed in delivering those finished lots.
Due to these longer cycle times we were unwilling to guarantee a fixed home price to our customers when we could not lock in our construction cost.
We remain cautious about the impact of lower oil prices on the Houston economy and will continue to keep a close eye on the market and any further developments we see there.
On slide 15 we showed that the dollar amount of consolidated net contracts increased 5% year-over-year to $701 million during the second quarter.
Assuming no changes in market conditions given the growth in our community count plus the additional communities that we expect to open in the second half of 2015 we believe that we will be able to grow our revenues significantly in fiscal 2016.
This gives us confidence that 2016 will be a solidly profitable and we will break out of our string of low or no-profit performance years.
Turning to slide 16; it shows that our consolidated community count has grown steadily over the past two years.
There's a lot of activity that goes into a net increase of 11 communities that we saw in the last year.
During the last 12 months we opened 97 new communities and closed out of 86 older ones.
We expect to see continued community count growth as we move forward.
Based on the community – on the growth in our community count and average selling price the dollar amount of our backlog has grown compared to last year.
On slide 17 we show the dollar amount of our backlog increased 12% to $1.17 billion from $1.05 billion at the end of last year's second quarter.
You can also see on the bottom of this slide that the number of homes in backlog grew to 2 972 homes up from 2 797 homes last year.
This increase in backlog combined with the community count growth provides further evidence that we'll be able to continue to grow our top line throughout the remainder of this year which we expect to result in sequentially improved quarterly performance.
Turning to slide 18 you'll see our owned and optioned land position broken out by our publicly reported market segments.
Our investment in land option deposits was $87 million on April 30 2015 with $86 million in cash deposits and $1 million of deposits being held by letters of credit.
Additionally we have another $22 million invested in pre-development expenses.
Assuming current market conditions remain steady we continue to anticipate un-mothballing approximately 900 lots in fiscal 2015 in two locations one in Natomas California and the other along the Hudson River Waterfront in New Jersey.
As the housing market improves additional communities will be un-mothballed in future periods.
Looking at all of our consolidated communities in the aggregate including mothballed communities we have an inventory book value of $1.5 billion net of $559 million of impairments.
We've recorded those impairments on 71 of our communities for the properties that have impaired we're carrying them at 22% of their pre-impaired value.
Another area of discussion for the quarter is related to our deferred tax asset valuation allowance.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014 we reversed $285 million of our deferred tax asset valuation allowance.
We'll reverse the remaining valuation allowance when we begin to generate higher levels of sustained profitability.
Back when we had a valuation allowance covering the full value of our deferred tax assets other than minor amounts related to federal or state tax reserves any income tax benefit or expense was offset by adjustments in the valuation allowance resulting in no income tax benefit or expense on the income statement.
Now that we reversed a portion of the valuation allowance income tax benefit or expense is reflected in the income statement consistent with how we reported taxes prior to having a valuation allowance.
At the end of the second of fiscal 2015 our valuation allowance in the aggregate was $643 million.
The remaining valuation allowance is a very significant asset currently reflected on our balance sheet and we've taking numerous steps to protect it.
We will not have to pay cash federal income taxes on approximately $2 billion of pre-tax earnings.
On slide 19 we show that we ended the second quarter with a total shareholders' deficit of $146 million.
If you add back the remaining valuation allowance as we've done on this slide then our shareholders' equity would be a positive $497 million.
Over time we believe that we can repair our balance sheet by returning to higher levels of profitability and have no intentions of issuing equity any time soon.
As seen on slide 20 after spending $108 million on land and land development during the second quarter we still ended the second quarter with $312 million of liquidity which includes $259 million of homebuilding cash and $53 million undrawn under our $75 million unsecured revolving line of credit.
We once again ended the quarter in excess of our targeted liquidity range of $170 million to $245 million.
Now turning to our debt maturity ladder which can be found on slide 21; red bars on this slide represent unsecured debt.
We continue to believe that we have the ability today to refinance all of our unsecured debt that matures between 2015 and 2017.
However in order to reduce the high costs associated with the make-whole provisions we have waited to refinance those bonds until we were closer to the maturity dates.
I expect that we will likely refinance the 2015 and at least the early-dated 2016 sometime this summer.
Because of the financial constraints that we had earlier in the cycle we have less capital spend on land and therefore we're less aggressive on investing lands than some of our peers.
But as you can see on slide 22 over the past 12 quarters we have gained control of about 10 000 more lots than we actually delivered homes on and our land acquisition teams across the country continue to work hard to identify new land parcels to purchase today.
We know the general timing of when these investments are going to come on-line as active selling communities.
We're finally at the point where we will be opening up a lot of communities which gives us confidence in our ability to grow revenues and profitability in 2016.
With respect to the walk-away shown on this slide our option deposits are typically fully refundable during the due diligence period.
The walk-aways from the second quarter of 2015 resulted in only modest charges primarily consisting of investigated expense incurred during the due diligence period.
We feel good about our liquidity position and we'll continue with land purchases that meet our 25%-plus unlevered underwriting hurdle rates based on today's construction costs today's home prices and today's absorption rates.
Turning to slide 23 I would now like to discuss our expectations for the remainder of fiscal 2015.
Assuming no change in market conditions we expect to report total revenues between $2.2 billion and $2.3 billion for all of fiscal 2015.
We expect our full-year gross margin for all of fiscal 2015 to be between 17.4% and 17.8%.
We expect total SG&amp;A as a percentage of our total revenues for all of fiscal 2015 to be between 12.1% and 12.4%.
While we still feel good about our ability to grow the top line during fiscal 2015 and still expect to generate a solid profit during the fourth quarter we do not expect it to be sufficient to offset the losses in the beginning of the year including a loss in the third quarter.
We expect the pre-tax loss for the full year to be between $15 million and $30 million.
This is due to this year's decline in gross margin and a relatively high level of SG&amp;A related to preparing for greater top line growth.
I'll now turn it back to Ara for some closing comments.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> We're not happy about the step backwards we've taken in 2015.
As much as I'm disappointed in our results in 2015 thus far we are expecting dramatically better results in our fourth quarter which begins in August and continuing through 2016 which begins in less than five months.
We're planning some aggressive growth for 2016.
We believe we're well positioned for this growth based on our land position.
We are growing our community count.
Additionally we're taking steps to improve the operating results of some of our weaker divisions.
These steps include recent management changes whittling down some of our older communities and new communities coming on line with better financial metrics.
We believe the seeds we have been planting are going to pay off for us in 2016 which is why we're calling for a breakout year in deliveries revenues and profitability.
Any benefits we get from an improvement in the housing market will only accelerate our top and bottom-line growth.
That concludes or formal remarks and I'm happy to turn it open for questions.
The company will now answer questions.
And our first question comes from the line of Susan Maklari from UBS.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
In terms of the spec level I know that you commented that you expect it – it's already started to come down and you expect that to further come down.
Can you just give us some sense of how we should be thinking about a normalized level in terms of the number of homes per community? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
Well yes we don't expect it to come down much further from where we are right now.
The issue was not so much the absolute level of specs per community but our distribution.
Normally in markets like Houston we ran higher specs per community but that market has been quite strong and we've been selling the homes early so we have actually fewer specs there.
I think some of the mistakes we made we had specs in areas that we don't customarily have spec homes that'd be markets like Virginia or Maryland or New Jersey so – and there the market was not used to as many specs.
The market is not particularly strong and that's where we have to take some steep discounts to adjust it.
So it's a long winded way to say the issue is not the number of specs in absolute sense but the balance in distribution between geographies and product lines.
We also started a few specs more than we should have in retrospect on some of our higher-end communities as well.
So we think the key is more bringing in a balance than reducing the number further.
Okay that's helpful.
Thanks.
And then my second question is you noted that in Houston things continue to be strong but that you have had disclosed sales down where lot of deliveries have been delayed.
Given the recent weather down there with the flooding and that situation could that potentially get pushed further out and have further impacts to that market? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
I mean they had an extremely wet spring and then they had the flooding that occurred and still fairly rainy.
That's not helpful when you're trying to develop lots.
So the lots were already delayed and certainly the weather has caused further delays for developers across Houston as well.
Director &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> Obviously we're hoping the weather gets a little bit better so the developers can catch up and get our land developed and delivered to us.
In Houston we are primarily a buyer of finished developed lots.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Megan McGrath from MKM Partners.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
Some follow-ups on the gross margin.
Just want to make sure that when I look at your guidance for the full year looks like that implies if I'm doing correct math about 200 basis points in improvement by the end of the year.
Do you – is that about right and do you expect that to come gradually or are we going to see sort of a big bump in the 4Q gross margin? Director &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> I think you're in the ballpark...
Yeah.
Director &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> ...in terms of your math.
Certainly the fourth quarter is going to be stronger than the third quarter.
You'll see sequential increases in the margin that's going to occur.
Okay great.
And then I wanted to follow up on your detail on the to-be-built margin differential that you broke out.
Well we heard from a lot of other builders their commentary was that this was a reflection of the weak market at the end of 2014 rather than a commentary on the existing market.
Would you agree with that and are you expecting to see that margin improve as we go through the end of the year? Director &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> To-be-built is that correct? Yes on to-be-builts.
Director &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> Yeah.
I would say that the to-be-built margins did decline in the latter half of 2014.
That was a – kind of result of the slower sales pace that us and the whole industry was experiencing as compared to the better sales pace per community that we experienced in 2013.
So builders were trying to get a disproportionate share and the way they did that was offer incentives and concessions.
I'd say that's been mitigated for the most part this year as the market has shown some strength.
So I think most of the decline in margins related to to-be-built homes is probably either in backlog or already been delivered and that we're seeing slightly stronger to-be-built margins as we move forward.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning.
It's actually Jason Marcus in for Mike.
The first question I was hoping you could talk a little bit more about the overall demand environment.
I know you talked about gross margins being below your expectations but in terms of sales pace obviously it declined about 4% or 5% during the quarter and I just wanted to see how that compared to your expectations as you look across different regions throughout the company.
And then furthermore as you look into 3Q can you just talk about how you're balanced on price versus pace? Director &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> I think again as I tried to explain when talked in the script about sales pace it's partially impacted by tougher comparison we created for our self last year when we did our national sales promotion.
So that's part of the answer but in terms of expectations I think the candid answer is we really thought kind of leading into January sales all the way through January monthly year-over-year net contracts per community had shown a positive trend for four or five months in a row and that gave us great optimism that the spring selling season would continue that kind of a pattern.
So we were disappointed when February showed a decline.
I think we talked about that a little bit during last quarter's conference call.
March that decline didn't surprise us quite as much but our expectations being optimists probably were still that even March would show at least even if not a slight improvement year-over-year.
So I don't know if that is responsive enough to your question but that's kind of my macro view of it.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Just overall adding to that tone in the first quarter the actual first quarter months November December and January as you may recall back on slide 12 our contracts per community were up every single month but we did report the first month of next quarter February which was down.
We – as it turns out as you know now it's in the results February and March were down.
But the good news is unlike last quarter where we began with a negative month this time we ended the quarter in April positively and we began with a very strong May.
So we're optimistic that this is more of a trend in the positive direction.
However as you can obviously see for us we've seen the market being choppy overall in our markets.
We're hoping some of that choppiness ends but it's hard to tell.
We didn't expect it in February and March to the extent that we have the downward comparisons but we're pleased that April and May are up strongly.
As we mentioned in dollar amount of net contracts in May it was particularly strong with $213 million compared to last year's $179 million.
So our recent results we're very pleased with.
Okay great.
And then just next question quickly on the land market.
If you could just talk about what you're seeing there in terms of the competition and pricing from a regional perspective and if you had to adjust your underwriting criteria? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No.
The underwriting criteria is about the same and I can't say there's been any great change in competitiveness on the land deals.
As you could see we really have to do our due diligence you saw on one of the slides many of our initial options don't withstand the due diligence process.
You have to be extremely careful in this environment.
And we're remaining true to our discipline and trying to be very analytical in our new acquisitions which are critical.
But on the whole I'd say the market is balanced.
We're finding opportunities as we need them.
2016 is basically all purchased or at least optioned and controlled and in contract.
So we're today just working to build our 2017 and that includes counting on significant growth for 2016.
Okay.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Nishu Sood from Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
This is actually on for Nishu.
My first question is regarding gross margins.
Can you shed some light on why you consider 20% to be a normalized gross margin and do you need pricing power to get there? Director &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> The reason we consider 20% to be a normalized gross margin is we showed some longer-term history of our gross margin.
I'm not sure exactly which slide it is.
Jeff will look it up as I'm speaking.
Between 1997 and 2002 when it wasn't kind of a boom market or a bust market we averaged just around that 20% 21% gross margin.
We consider that a normalized gross margin.
We actually achieved that gross margin in 2013 and 2014 so we don't really need pricing power per se.
We just need our communities; our new communities coming on line should be averaging in that regard.
We need the market to hold up to where builders aren't offering as much incentives and concessions as they did in 2014.
So I think we'll get back to that 20% over time.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I'll add that obviously during the stronger markets we have registered gross margins far in excess of that.
In fact I think in 2004 and 2005 we had 25% and 26% gross margin.
So certainly it's capable of exceeding 20% which is about where we consider normalized.
Right now we're just anxious to get back to our normal levels.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then my next question is can you shed some more light on your backlog and why you're confident that you'll see higher margin in the back half of the year? What factors are going to drive this? Director &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> We can see the numbers as we sell each house what the margin is and we can see what our margin is actually in backlog across the country.
And we know what month those are expected to close in.
So we have pretty good visibility and transparency and that's what gives us confidence to make the statement.
We did about margins improvement throughout the rest of this year.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Now the one caveat is that we do sell typically about 25% of each quarter's deliveries during that quarter.
Those are specs.
And last quarter as we had announced we were planning to discount the specs and ended up we discounted more than we planned so we came in a little lower in our gross margin than we had anticipated.
At this time we are seeing the spread narrow on our specs.
So we're feeling better about that trend.
Still we haven't sold all of the specs that we typically don't for the quarter deliveries but we just don't anticipate any negative surprises this time based on the current environment.
Ara thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Alan Ratner from Zelman &amp; Associates.
Your line is open.
Hey.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Ara as I kind of listened to your commentary I definitely hear the frustration in your voice just about the recent performance.
And I think while all builders agree the recovery hasn't been as robust as we would have expected a few years ago I think it is fair to say the market's in a materially better position today than back in say 2012.
Yet your metrics are pretty similar now versus what they were back then.
So I guess my bigger-picture question to you as you sit here today and you think about Hovnanian's outlook I was curious if there's any consideration being paid by management and the boards to a more material strategy shake-up.
I know you mentioned the recent management changes at the local level but was curious is there any consideration to exit weaker-performing markets sell off some land to shrink the balance sheet even bringing in an outside consultant to kind of help out craft that longer term vision of the company as some other builders have done over the last few years? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I appreciate the comment and yes you do correctly hear frustration in my voice.
But we think we see the path to improvement and we think it's upon us.
If we don't meet the positive fourth quarter that we believe we've got with dramatically better results and if we don't kick off 2016 with positive results and I think we'd look at something more significant.
But really we're employing the same strategies in general and how we manage that led us to industry-leading performance in the last up-cycle in 2004 and 2005 with largely the same senior management team in place.
We not only outperformed almost every single public builder in those two years but we actually were number two on the Fortune 500 performance in terms of return on equity and growth and profit.
So we think we know what we need to do and we don't think the fundamentals have changed that much.
Obviously we were hampered by the mistakes that were made before the downturn and we've been saddled with some of those mistakes that haven't given us the same flexibility that some of our competitors have had but we've gone through that.
We weren't able to quite do the land purchases we would have liked that some of our competitors did but we have made some great progress.
We've got a lot of communities opening and we think that performance should be turning around shortly.
We look forward to reporting much better results particularly beginning in the fourth quarter and going on from there.
It's only a few months away.
Great and I appreciate it.
Thanks very much.
Our next question comes from Susan Berliner from JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Director &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> Good morning.
I want to start I guess with land spend.
I was wondering in light of the upcoming debt maturities if you may be looking to reduce land spend.
I know if you go back to 2011 and 2012 you guys were closer to $400 million and had about $600 million last year? Director &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> Sue if you'll recall on the last quarter's call when we discussed after raising $250 million of debt in the first quarter that we took some near term steps in order to more fully deploy that cash.
Those steps allowed us to avoid that negative arbitrage of paying interest both on our new debt and interest on items such as non-recourse mortgages model sale leasebacks and banking arrangements et cetera.
And we also said that we would reactivate those programs when we decide to increase our liquidity or deploy additional cash to grow our land position even further.
And actually in the second quarter towards the end of the second quarter we reactivated some of those programs so the $108 million land spend is artificially low.
And the land spend that we had in the first quarter I don't recall exactly what it was it was probably a little bit high.
So if you average our spend over those two quarters that's kind of what our quarterly spend has been without the white noise of some of those actions we took to reduce interest costs.
So we've really been steady on our land spend I guess is what I'm really trying to convey.
Okay.
And then if I could just turn to market because I guess I'm still a little confused on the slowdown and absorption pace and I know you had some in Houston.
And I was wondering if you could talk about some of your other large markets whether it be D.C.
New Jersey Chicago et cetera? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
Well the strong markets overall for us continue to be up in addition to Texas the Northern California Silicon Valley suburbs where we've got communities there a particular community a large one with two product lines where we have people camp out and we literally sell out the morning we release the homes.
That market has been particularly strong and we're about to open another new and large community there as well.
So we think that's going to be beneficial.
The D.C.
market overall has been sluggish compared to where we'd expect it to be at this time in the cycle.
Clearly sequestering is taking its toll and employment has not been as vigorous as it used to be.
So that is not giving us the punch that we normally have.
In the Northeast that market has just not recovered as vigorously as other markets have.
However some of our newer communities that we're able to purchase at a solid basis had performed very well.
So we're anxious as we continue to open new communities to get a bigger mix of our new communities compared to the old legacy ones in the Northeast and we think that alone will improve our performance.
And finally in Florida in Southeast and Orlando in particular they're very strong markets.
We've got several communities under way with land development.
We're just anxious to get the models open and open for sale there.
We think that will be very helpful.
We've got some good properties at a good basis and we're just anxious to get land development done and models built to open up.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
At this time I'd like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Hovnanian for any closing remarks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks very much.
Listen we understand disappointment in the results.
We're disappointed but we look forward to reporting better results in the very near future.
Thank you.
This concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you all for participating and have a nice day.
All parties may now disconnect.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for Hovnanian Enterprises Fiscal 2015 Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
An archive of the webcast will be available after the completion of the call and run for 12 months.
This conference is being recorded for rebroadcast and all participants are currently in a listen-only mode.
Management will make some opening remarks about the third quarter results and then open up the line for questions.
The Company will also be webcasting a slide presentation along with the opening comments from management.
The slides are available on the Investor Relations' page on the Company's Web site at www.khov.com.
Those listeners who would like to follow along should log on to the Web site at this time.
Before we begin I'd like to turn the call over to Jeff O'Keefe Vice President-Investor Relations.
Jeff please go ahead.
Thank you Amanda and thank you all for participating in this morning's call to review the results for our third quarter which ended July 31 2015.
All statements on this conference call that are not historical fact should be considered as forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such statements involve known and unknown risks uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results performance or achievements of the company to be materially different from any future results performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements.
Such forward-looking statements include but are not limited to statements related to the Company's goals and expectations with respect to its financial results for the current or future financial periods including total revenues gross margin selling general and administrative expense as a percentage of total revenues and adjusted pre-tax profit.
And the illustrative modeling scenarios provided with respect to inventory inventory turnover deliveries homebuilding revenue homebuilding gross margin SG&amp;A interest consolidated pre-tax earnings homebuilding cash homebuilding debt stockholders equity and net debt-to-capital.
Although we believe that any plans intentions and expectations reflected in or suggested by such forward-looking statements are reasonable we can give no assurance that such plans intentions or expectations will be achieved.
By their nature forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they’re made are not guarantees of future performance or results and are subject to risks uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict or quantify.
Therefore actual results could differ materially and adversely from those forward looking statements as a result of a variety of factors.
Such risks uncertainties and other factors include but are not limited to changes in general and local economic industry and business conditions and impacts of the sustained homebuilding downturn; adverse weather and other environmental conditions and natural disasters; levels of indebtedness and restrictions on the Company's operations and activities imposed by the agreements governing the Company's outstanding indebtedness; the Company's sources of liquidity; changes in credit ratings; changes in market conditions and seasonality of the Company's business; the availability and cost of suitable land and improved lots shortages in and price fluctuations of raw materials and labor; regional and local economic factors including dependency on certain sectors of the economy and employment levels affecting home prices and sales activity in the markets where the Company builds homes; fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of mortgage financing; changes in tax laws affecting the after-tax cost of owning a home operations through joint ventures with third-parties government regulation including regulations concerning development of land the homebuilding sales and customer financing processes tax laws and the environment product liability litigation warranty claims and claims made by mortgage investors; levels of competition; availability in terms of financing to the Company; successful identification and integration of acquisitions; significant influence of the Company's controlling stockholders; availability of net operating loss carryforwards; utility shortages and outages or rate fluctuations; geopolitical risks terrorist acts and other acts of war; and certain risks uncertainties and other factors described in detail in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31 2014 and subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Except as otherwise required by applicable securities laws we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future changes changed circumstances or any other reason.
Joining me today from the Company are Ara Hovnanian Chairman President and CEO; Larry Sorsby Executive Vice President and CFO; Brad O'Connor Vice President Chief Accounting Officer and Controller and David Bachstetter Vice President-Finance and Treasurer.
I'll now turn the call over to Ara.
Ara go ahead.
Thanks Jeff.
Let me get started with our third quarter results which can be found on Slide 3.
The dollar amount of our net contracts increased 20% while the number of net contracts we signed increased 13%.
If you include unconsolidated joint ventures we had a 28% increase in dollars and a 16% increase in the number of net contracts.
Our strong sales pace continued in August when the dollar amount of net contracts increased 15% and the number of net contracts also increased 15% on a consolidated basis and on an -- if you include unconsolidated joint ventures we had a 19% increase in the number of contracts and a 24% increase in the dollars of contracts in the month of August.
Primarily as a result of geographic and product mix our average sales price increased from $381 000 during last year’s third quarter to $404 000 for the third quarter of this year.
Our community count growth continued with a 5% year-over-year increase in the third quarter.
We expect even stronger community count growth during our fourth quarter.
On top of our community count growth our pace of contracts per community increased.
Our consolidated net contracts per community increased 7% during the third quarter while net contracts per community including unconsolidated joint ventures increased 12%.
The dollar amount of our net contract backlog increased 23% to $1.26 billion at the end of the third quarter compared to $1.03 billion at quarter end last year.
On a less positive note our total revenues declined 2%.
This decline was due to a 4% decrease in deliveries which was partially offset by a 2% increase in the average sales price.
The drop in deliveries corresponds with our poor sales last year which were adversely impacted by a slower market and by delays in opening new communities.
Sales increased this year and as I indicated earlier during the past few months our sales environment has improved significantly.
This positive sales trend combined with a strong quarter end contract backlog bodes well for our expected revenue and profitability growth during 2016.
Consistent with our guidance of sequential improvement in gross margin our gross margin increased to 17.8% for the third quarter of fiscal 2015 up 170 basis points from 16.1% during the second quarter of fiscal ’15.
However as expected our fiscal ’15 third quarter gross margin was 350 basis points lower than our gross margin in the third quarter a year-ago.
During the third quarter primarily as a result of lower year-over-year revenues our total SG&amp;A as a percentage of total revenues increased slightly to 12.6%.
In line with guidance we provided in our second quarter conference call we reported a pre-tax loss of $10 million during the third quarter of ’15 compared with a pre-tax profit of $15 million a year-ago.
However also consistent with our guidance last quarter our fourth quarter should be solidly profitable.
In addition each of our quarters in 2016 should show year-over-year improvement resulting in a breakout year for us in 2016.
Let me go into a little more detail about our gross margin.
For all of fiscal ’14 our gross margin was 19.9% which is what we consider a normalized gross margin.
On Slide 4 we show our quarterly gross margin percentage since 2014.
Our quarterly gross margin percentage peaked at 21.3% in the third quarter of fiscal ’14 and then trended down for three consecutive quarters.
During the third quarter of fiscal ‘15 we saw our gross margin reverse that downward trend by increasing 170 basis point sequentially from the second quarter of 2015.
As we discussed in last quarter's call much of the lower margin was attributable to spec homes which we define as started unsold homes.
It's not unusual for spec homes to be sold with lower gross margins than to be build homes but the increased incentives we offered on second quarter spec home deliveries were atypical.
Much of our third quarter gross margin improvement was due to both reducing the number of spec homes that we offered and the steps that we took to lower the incentives on -- to lower the levels of incentives in concessions offered on the spec homes.
As a result the margin on spec homes during the third quarter of fiscal ’15 was 270 basis points better than it was during the second quarter of fiscal ’15.
The percentage of deliveries from spec homes in the third quarter also decreased to 48% from 52% in this year's second quarter.
We are pleased with the progress we made in reducing the number of spec homes per community over the last three quarters which you can see on Slide 5.
Specs per community have fallen to 3.9 at the end of the third quarter compared to 4.7 at the end of the fourth quarter of 2014.
Additionally we have made strong progress in reducing specs in higher priced communities where consumers wish to customize their homes and as a result the distribution of our spec homes is much more in balance today.
Turning to Slide number 6 you can see that our SG&amp;A as a percentage of total revenues tweaked up year-over-year during the third quarter of 2015 to 12.6% from 12.2% in last year's third quarter.
The majority of this increase was related to a drop-off in revenues while holding our SG&amp;A dollar expenses fairly level.
Foreshadowing the SG&amp;A leverage to come in 2016 however our SG&amp;A dollars only increased 1% while the dollar value of our net contracts increased 20% and the dollar value of our backlog grew 23%.
On Slide 7 we show that our total SG&amp;A annual expense as a percentage of total revenues going all the way back to 2001.
We consider 10% a normalized SG&amp;A ratio.
Improving the efficiency of our SG&amp;A expenses will continue to be a significant area of focus.
As we generate revenue from our expected community count increases we expect to be able to generate to leverage our fixed SG&amp;A expenses further and reduce this ratio back to more normalized levels of 10%.
While fiscal ’15 has been challenging for us we are very focused on generating future growth in revenues so that we can gain the efficiencies.
On our second quarter conference call we also mentioned that we are focused on improving the results of our weaker divisions.
To further this goal we’ve brought on a number of new business unit presidents to strengthen our management team.
A few examples include hiring the former COO of Meritage Homes as a Group President over our Arizona and California operations; a former corporate EVP and Regional President with Centex to run our Minnesota division; a former Regional President from a top 10 builder to oversee our Florida operations and several other new division presidents formerly with other top 10 public builders to run some of our other divisions.
In total these gentlemen have many many years of homebuilding experience between them and we’re confident that we will be able to capitalize on their collective experience and improve our operations in their respective markets.
It was time for change and we’re extremely pleased with the caliber of our new associates.
I’ll now turn it over to Larry Sorsby our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Thanks Ara.
Turning now to our current sales environment on Slide 8 the dollar amount of our consolidated net contracts per month for each of the past 12 months.
The most recent month is shown in blue the same month of the previous year is shown in yellow and we used green arrows pointing up to indicate an increase and down red arrows to indicate a decrease.
Our recent sales performance is encouraging.
The dollar value of our net contracts for the past five months increased 19% year-over-year on a consolidated basis and increased 26% on a year-over-year basis when including unconsolidated joint ventures.
Driven by the combination of increased community counts higher average sales prices and more recently stronger sales results 11 of the past 12 months have had year-over-year increases.
These year-over-year increases in our sales results will lead to an improving revenue environment in the coming year.
While Slide 8 showed the dollar amount of net contracts Slide 9 shows the number of monthly net contracts per community.
Over the past few months there have been more positive than negative year-over-year monthly comparisons which seems to indicate that the housing recovery is firming up.
On Slide 10 we try to put the current sales situation into perspective with a longer-term view.
The dark blue bar shows that we averaged 44 net contracts per community per year from 1997 through 2002 a period of neither boom nor bust times.
Then in yellow we show average net contracts per community bottoming at 21.3 per year in 2011 followed by two years of improvement in 2012 and 2013 at 28.1 and 30.7 per year respectively.
Surprisingly we in the home building industry took a step backwards in sales pace per community in 2014 to 28.4 net contracts per year.
Looking at the grey bar it shows the adjusted annual rate for the most recent quarter was 30.5.
The run rate of our most recent quarter is now approaching the 30.7 contracts per community level we saw on fiscal 2013.
This is certainly a step in the right direction and we hope it is a positive trend that will continue as the housing industry recovers.
Houston remains a hot topic within our industry so I want to provide a brief update on what we’re seeing in that market.
With an average sales price of $312 000 in Houston compared to our company average sales price of $404 000 our primary focus in Houston is on entry and first-time move up product.
As a result we have not built any material adverse impact from the higher price point Houston markets cooling off that some of our peers have spoken about.
Turning to Slide 11 you can see our quarterly net contracts per community in Houston for 2013 ’14 and ’15.
On our last call we talked about the spring selling season in ’15 having a tough year-over-year comparison to the spring selling season of ’14 when the market was white hot.
We are pleased to report that during the third quarter of 2015 the net contracts per community increased slightly to 6.0 compared with 5.9 in the third quarter of 2014.
Not only did we achieve an increase in sales pace per community during the third quarter but we saw the absolute number of net contracts increased by 8% year-over-year during the third quarter as well.
Turning to Slide 12 it shows some other details of our Houston operation.
For the trailing 12 months Houston accounted for 16% of our homebuilding revenues.
At the end of the third quarter our inventory in Houston was only 10% of our total homebuilding inventory.
So even though 16% of our trailing 12 month home revenues were from Houston we don't have much in the way of capital tied up in that market.
Houston is primarily a market where you control land through option contracts with quarterly finished lot take downs and therefore it is not as capital intensive as some of our other markets.
To further illustrate this point as of July 31 2015 we control 3 461 lots in Houston.
Almost 50% of those lots are currently optioned with the deposit of only $5.4 million.
This represents an average option deposit of about $3000 per lot in Houston compared with our company average of approximately $6000 per lot.
If the Houston market started to materially deteriorate we would be able to renegotiate our option contracts or walk away from our option contracts with only a modest expense.
Our owned land position in Houston is relatively short at about a 17 month supply.
This 17 month supply in Houston compares to our companywide average supply excluding mothballed lots of 31 lots -- 31 months of owned lots in the remainder of our markets.
At the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2015 we have 53 active selling communities in Houston and another 13 communities in planning.
In summary after 12 months of significantly lower oil prices our sales pace and profitability level in Houston remain solid.
In spite of these positive condition we remain cautious about the impact of lower oil prices on the Houston economy and we'll continue to keep a close eye on the market a if any further developments we see there.
Moving back to overall Company Slide 13 shows that our consolidated community count has grown steadily over the past two years.
There's a lot of activity that goes into a net increase of 10 communities that we saw in the last year.
During the last 12 months we opened 95 new communities and closed out of 85 older ones.
We expect to see continued community count growth as we move forward including a more meaningful growth in our fourth quarter.
Turning to Slide 14 you'll see our owned and optioned land position broken out by our publicly reported market segments.
Our investment in land option deposits was $90 million as of July 31 2015.
Additionally we have another $14 million invested in pre-development expenses.
During the third quarter we unmothbaled 632 home sites in Natomas California.
We anticipate beginning deliveries from Natomas near the end of fiscal 2016 but starting in 2017 Natomas will become an even larger contributor to our production levels.
Assuming current market conditions remain steady and a joint venture agreement is finalized during the fourth quarter we expect to unmothball 278 home sites along the Hudson River Waterfront in West New York New Jersey where we have previously built thousands of profitable homes.
This waterfront location has spectacular views of the New York skyline and it is within walking distance to an easy ferry ride for access to the city.
We already own the land at this AAA location which we plan to contribute as our equity [technical difficulty].
During the life of this community we expect total home sales of approximately $365 million along with significant profit contributions.
This market continues to be very strong as New York City home prices remain at record levels.
Looking at all of our consolidated communities in the aggregate including mothballed communities we have an inventory book value of $1.6 billion net of $549 million of impairments.
We've recorded those impairments on 70 of our communities for the properties that have been impaired we're carrying them at 22% of their pre-impaired value.
Another area of discussion for the quarter is related to our deferred tax asset valuation allowance.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014 we reversed $285 million of our deferred tax asset valuation allowance.
We'll reverse the remaining valuation allowance when we begin to generate higher levels of sustained profitability.
At the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2015 our valuation allowance in the aggregate were $642 million.
The remaining valuation allowance is a very significant asset not currently reflected on our balance sheet and we’ve taken numerous steps to protect it.
We will not have to pay cash federal income taxes on approximately $2 billion of future pre-tax earnings.
On Slide 15 we show that we ended the third quarter with a total shareholders' deficit of $152 million.
If you add back the remaining valuation allowance as we've done on this slide then our shareholders' equity would be a positive $490 million.
You look at this on a per share basis it is $3.33 per share which means at the yesterday’s closing stock price of $1.96 per share our stock is trading at a 41% discount to our adjusted tangible book value per share.
Over time we believe that we can repair our balance sheet by returning to higher levels of profitability and have no intentions of issuing equity any time soon.
As seen on Slide 16 after spending $130 million on land and land development during our third quarter we still ended the third quarter with $259 million of liquidity which includes $210 million of homebuilding cash and cash equivalents including $2.6 million of restricted cash to collateralized letters of credit and $49 million undrawn under our $75 million unsecured revolving line of credit.
We once again ended the quarter in excess of our target liquidity range of $170 million to $245 million.
Recently there has been some confusion amongst both analyst and investors about the collateral we have securing our 7.25% first lien notes and 9.8% second lien notes due 2020 and the 2% and 5% first lien notes due 2021 and the coverage remaining for the unsecured notes that I’d like to clear up.
Turning to Slide 17 here we start with the collateral for the 7.25% first lien notes the 9.08% second lien notes which primarily consists of $166 million of cash and cash equivalents and based on book value $800 million of inventory at July 31 2015.
This collateral totals $966 million compared to an outstanding principal amount of $797 million for a collateral ratio of 1.21x.
While there is no -- while there is other collateral for these notes the other collateral is not material.
If you turn to Slide 18 here we show the collateral for the 2% and 5% first lien notes due 2021 which primarily includes $44 million of cash and cash equivalents and based on book value $147 million of inventory at July 31 2015.
We add to that number the equity interest in our joint ventures which were not pledged as collateral for the 2% and 5% notes but are owned by entities that are obligors on these notes and not on our other notes totaling $64 million at July 31 2015.
Together the collateral and these equity interest totaled $254 million compared to an outstanding principal amount of $195 million for an asset coverage ratio of 1.3x.
On Slide 19 we show our total assets of $2.5 billion.
We subtract from this number our $304 million income tax receivables including net deferred tax benefits $109 million of inventory not owned and $136 million of financial services assets held by unrestricted subsidiaries which leaves us with slightly more than $2 billion of assets that are available to satisfy all our notes.
We then subtract the $149 million of outstanding amount of non-recourse mortgages the $195 million principal for the 2% and 5% notes and the $797 million dollars of principal for the 7.25 first lien notes and 9.8% second lien notes due 2020.
That leaves us with approximately $859 million of assets available to all unsecured notes.
This compares to an outstanding unsecured principal amount of $841 million which excludes our notes exchangeable in the common equity for an asset coverage ratio of 1.02x.
We note that the above discussion is simplified and that it does not take into account other liabilities including trade payables of our subsidiaries and also met certain immaterial assets pledged to secure existing notes.
I want to spend another minute to explain the collateral coverage of our non-recourse mortgages.
In our 10-Q we provide the related real property book value of the communities that are securing these loans which includes land and any other improvements either land development or vertical construction of homes.
At the end of the third quarter this real property value was $367 million compared to an outstanding loan balance of $133 million on these loans.
The total commitment for those loans is $342 million.
So as we continue to build through communities there is additional capacity available to fund those expenditures.
As we draw more on those loans the real property value securing these loans will increase.
However there will never be a time when we’re 100% drawn on all of the loan simultaneously.
Now turning to our debt maturity ladder which can be found on Slide 20; red bars on this slide represent unsecured debt.
We’ve $61 million of debt that becomes due on October 15 2015 and another $173 million that comes due January 15 2016.
Recently the high yield market for CCC credit companies including Hovnanian have been difficult.
While our preference is to refinance these near-term maturities as they become due.
If we’re not receptive to the prevailing high yield rates we have a number of alternative capital sources.
We can utilize to ensure we’ve sufficient liquidity to both pay-off these bonds as well as continue to grow our Company.
Turning to Slide 21 let me explain some of the liquidity leverage we’ve available.
One lever that we can pull is to increase our land banking activity.
We could choose to take a higher percentage of new land deals we desire to control; the land banker is rather than utilizing our cash to purchase.
Land banking typically reduces our upfront cash required to purchase and develop land by roughly 85% and we still control the land be an option agreement with the land banker.
Additionally because our expected return on the land parcel is significantly higher than the return required by the land banker these transactions enhance our return on capital as well.
Another land banking option available to us is take existing land assets that we own and sell them to a land banker and enter into an option agreement to purchase those assets back on a just in time basis.
We currently have $1.6 billion in inventory.
We could take a portion of that inventory.
Say $250 million worth sell it to a landbancker put down a modest deposit and we would have more than enough cash on hand to deal with near-term maturities.
Another lever we could utilize is increasing our joint venture activity.
This too enhances our liquidity position and our returns on capital as we typically put up 10% to 15% of the required capital and our joint venture partner puts up the remainder.
We normally participate pari-passu with our partner based on our capital contributions up to a modest internal rate of return and then receive an ever increasing percentage of the project returns generated above that base level.
Although historically we’ve entered in -- entered joint ventures on a larger more capital intensive communities we could decide to pull a number of smaller communities together into a single JV in order to further enhance our liquidity position.
A third lever we’ve available is non-recourse project specific financing.
We’ve been doing an increasing amount of these and we could choose to do even more.
Finally another lever that is available is that we could increase our use of model sale lease backs.
Even though these alternative capital sources are administratively burdensome each of the levers enhances our returns on capital.
These are the same levers that we talked about in 2009 and successfully executed at a point of time when both Hovnanian and the housing market were in a much tougher position and we find ourselves now.
Let me reiterate while we still prefer to access the high yield market to refinance our debt if we deem it too expensive we believe that the leverage outlined above will allow us to pay-off near-term debt as it matures and allow us to continue the growth of our business plan contemplate.
Because of the financial constraints that we had earlier in the cycle we have less capital spend on land and therefore we work less aggressive on investing in land at some of our peers.
And as a result our recovery trajectory has been a bit behind our peers as well.
As you can see on the left hand side of Slide 22 recently we get 10 more aggressively investing in land over the past three years we’ve gained control of about $10 000 more lots than we actually delivered home zone.
In our land acquisition teams across the country continue to work hard to identify new land parcels to purchase today.
Further emphasizing this investment on the right hand side of the slide we show that our inventories grew 16% during this same period of time.
We know that general timing of when these investments are going to come online as active selling communities.
We are finally at the point we will start generating higher levels of revenue from these land investments.
As you can see on Slide 23 we grew our inventory faster than all but three of our peers during the past year.
This ramp up in our inventory the 10 000 additional lots we controlled over the past three years the 23% year-over-year increase we achieved in our contract backlog at July 31 2015 and the 19% year-over-year increase we’ve seen in net contract dollars over the past five months combined together give up confidence in our ability to increase revenues and profitability during 2016.
Turning to Slide 24 I’d now like to discuss our expectations for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015.
We’ve refined our guidance and continue to expect to report a strong fourth quarter.
Assuming no change in market conditions we expect to report total revenues of approximately $745 million for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015.
We expect our fourth quarter gross margin for fiscal 2015 to be approximately 17.6% and our SG&amp;A as a percentage of total revenues to be approximately 9.5%.
Excluding land related charges gains or losses on extinguishment of debt and other non-recurring items such as the legal settlements we expect the pre-tax profit for the fourth quarter of 2015 to be approximately $22 million.
Turning to Slide 25 I’d now like to discuss our expectations for all of fiscal 2016.
Again assuming no changes to market conditions we expect to report total revenues between $2.7 billion and $3.1 billion for all of fiscal 2016.
We expect our gross margin for all of fiscal 2016 to be between 16.8% and 18%.
We expect total SG&amp;A as a percentage of our total revenues for all of fiscal 2016 to be between 9.8% and 10.2%.
Excluding any land related charges gains or losses on extinguishment of debt recurring items such as a legal settlement; we expect the pre-tax profit for fiscal 2016 to be between $40 million and $100 million.
Before I turn it back to -- over to Ara to discuss several illustrative financial modeling scenarios I want to cover some disclosure language regarding those scenarios.
Turning to Slide 26 Ara will spend the next few minutes outlining several potential illustrative financial modeling scenarios through 2020 that will help you understand our longer term prospects.
These illustrative financial modeling scenarios which represented in Slides 27 28 and 29 and the associated appendix in Slides 33 34 and 35 including assumptions upon which they’re based is disclosed in Slide 32 and our accompanying remarks are integrally related and are intended to be presented and understood together.
Given the forward-looking and longer term nature of these scenarios you should keep in mind that the information presented for periods beyond 2016 sits at a range of potential outcomes future periods and is not presented as management’s current expectations of its financial performance for periods beyond fiscal 2016.
A wide range of outcomes is possible given then volatile nature of the homebuilding industry and our actual results may differ materially and adversely from those illustrative scenarios due to a variety of factors including those described in Slide 2 and in section entitled Risk Factors in our most recent report on Form 10-K.
We do not intend to update these modeling scenarios and/or provide this type of longer term forward-looking information on a regular basis and undertake no obligation to do so.
The base case scenario we will highlight below assumes no changes in current market conditions.
We also provide upside and downside scenarios that do include assumptions about how market conditions may change over the next fives years.
Again these assumptions are described in more detail on Slide 32.
Actual results maybe significantly worse than the downside scenario presented or better than the upside scenario.
I'll now turn it back to Ara for some closing comments.
Thanks Larry.
One of our key objectives over the next few years in addition to returning to normalized gross margins is to continue to grow revenue so that we can achieve operating leverage from both SG&amp;A and interest expense.
This would allow us to achieve significantly higher levels of profitability without assuming any changes in market conditions and excluding potential impact from land related charges gains or losses from extinguishment of debt or other non-recurring items such as legal settlement.
To accomplish this goal we plan to continue to increase our land investments and correspondingly our deliveries and revenues for the next few years.
After several years of growth we plan to stop growing revenues and flatten our inventory levels.
This would allow us to begin to harvest cash and reduce debt.
This strategy would also allow us to shift our focus from growth to repairing our balance sheet.
Simultaneously we expect to continue to benefit from the operating efficiencies including both a substantially lower SG&amp;A ratio and reduced interest expenses.
We will continue to believe that we could accomplish our goals of debt reduction and repairing our balance sheet without a dilutive equity offering.
Turning to Slide 27 the next series of slides shows you actual results for 2013 and 2014 which are shown in red.
Our guidance for 2015 and ’16 which are shown in green and illustrative financial modeling scenarios for 2017 through 2020.
All of these data points on Slide 27 28 and 29 are annual which are plotted at year on the horizon access.
Quarterly data is not presented or implied in any of these charts.
For these illustrative financial modeling scenarios we show a base case a downside case and an upside case the assumptions of which are shown in Slide 32.
The first graph in these theory -- in the series shows the growth in our inventory.
As you can see in the graph on the upper left hand quadrant of this slide we show the upside case with a gray dashed line.
The base case with a solid yellow line and the downside case with a solid blue line.
Basically the base case scenario assumes the current environment in terms of pricing and costs remained unchanged although absorption velocity starts to modestly increase beginning in 2018.
Even by 2020 we assume absorptions do not return to normal levels of 44 annual net contract for active selling community that we average between 97 and 2002.
As we descried in more detail on Slide 32 the down side scenario assumes these metric deteriorate slightly and the upside scenario assumes they improved slightly.
Even our upside scenario which does not assume we get anywhere near the margins and -- even in the upside scenario we don’t -- we get anywhere near the margins and velocities of the prior bull markets.
Looking at this graph you can also see that the largest growth in our inventory already took place in 2014 and 2015.
The assumptions for future inventory growth are very modest.
The next data point we show in the upper right hand quadrant is inventory turnover calculated using revenues divided by average inventory.
This is a critical component of our financial models.
As recent -- 2013 we had an inventory turnover rate of 2.2x.
Going back to 02 and 03 before the boom years we had inventory turns of 3.0 and 2.6x.
During 2015 as we continue to ramp up our investments in new properties particularly undeveloped properties our inventory turnover rate fell to 1.6x.
We expect our inventory turnover rate to improve in 2016 to 2x as the big ramp up in inventory in ’14 and ’15 transforms into deliveries.
As we reduce our focus on top line growth beginning in 2018 our base shows that the inventory turnover returns to the same 2.2x that we achieved in 2013.
Once again the assumption that our inventory turnover rate return to the normal level we achieved in 2013.
That is one of the key drivers of our profitability growth and our balance sheet improvement.
Moving to lower half of the slide we show wholly owned deliveries on the left and home building revenue on the right.
Both of these are expected to grow significantly next year as our recent growth in inventories begins to generate annual-- increased annual deliveries.
Our base case scenario assumes less aggressive growth in 2017 and 2018.
2019 shows deliveries and revenues holding steady at about 9 000 deliveries and approximately $3.8 billion in revenues.
At this point we’d expect to shift our focus to realizing greater efficiencies from our operation instead of additional growth.
Although we’ve spend significant efforts during the last five years to drive down our costs such as rolling out a fully integrated IT system standardizing best practices and rolling out cost efficient new home designs we intend to step up order efforts on this front once our energies are shifted from growth to harvest in cash cash and repairing our balance sheet.
We believe this change and focus would allow us to achieve greater levels of efficiency that would enhance our future profitability.
In the upper left hand quadrant on Slide 28 you can see that we’ve assumed relatively flat gross margins for 2016.
During 2017 and 2018 our base case scenarios show us gradually returning to the same 20% normalized gross margins that we achieved in both 2013 and 2014.
Given the upside scenarios shows peaking at only 20.5% gross margin which had dramatically below the 24% plus gross margin that we achieved in several of our prior stronger market cycles.
It’s even below the gross margin that we achieved in our third quarter of last year.
In the graph in the upper right-hand quadrant we show the dollar amount of SG&amp;A expenses.
For the most part total SG&amp;A expenses are shown as increasing in tandem with a growth in revenue that we showed on the previous slide.
While that dollar amount of SG&amp;A spend increases considerably in 2016 because much of the infrastructure for that growth was put in place in 2015.
We expect to gain the efficiencies in 2016 and have incorporated the efficiencies into our scenarios for 2017 and beyond.
The SG&amp;A expense ratio is shown on the bottom of the horizontal access.
Our guidance reduces SG&amp;A to 10.1% in 2016 and our model shows SG&amp;A returning to our 10% historical normalized level from 2017 through 2020.
We show interest expense in the lower left hand quadrant.
We expect interest expense dollars to increase next year with a larger amount of previously capitalized interest being expensed and we deliver more homes.
This occurs even though our debt levels are not expected to increase.
Despite the higher level of interest expense dollars we expect our ratio of interest expense to revenues to decrease by approximately 130 basis points to 5.9% in 2016.
Our various scenarios in 2018 indicate our interest expense with declined more significantly as we harvest cash and start paying down debt.
The bottom right-hand quadrant shows scenarios for consolidated pre-tax earnings for the company.
In the base case scenario we show that pre-tax earnings grew from $139 million in 2017 to over a $300 million in 2020.
Now that we’ve shown you a range of potential illustrative scenarios from a profit point of view over the next five years.
Slide 29 provides illustrative balance sheet scenarios which demonstrate material impact these outcomes could have.
The upper left hand portion of the slide focuses on liquidity which remains important.
We plan to manage our liquidity level to average about $200 million in 2016 and we have assumed this level of liquidity for periods beyond 2016 for purposes of modeling scenarios also.
As our recent investment and land converts to increased dollars -- excuse me increased deliveries in higher levels of revenues we expect our profitability to grow.
The scenarios assumed that we stopped growth in 2018 begin to harvest cash and pay down debt.
Even the downside scenario shows that we would be in a position to reduce debt and improve our balance sheet.
Keep in mind that these -- that in these scenarios while we'd be reporting taxes from a GAAP perspective we would not be paying Uncle Sam and we get to keep virtually 100% of the pretax income due to our tax loss carryforwards.
In the lower left quadrant you can see how our stockholders equity would grow in this time horizon to over a $1 billion in the base case.
In the lower right hand quadrant you can see steady reductions in our net debt to total cap ratio which would get to more -- back to more reasonable levels by 2020.
Under these scenarios we’d be able to grow our deliveries revenues and profitability to a critical mass by 2018 then harvest cash versus further top line growth and get our balance sheet into a much improved position.
We’re not happy about the step backwards we’ve taken in 2015.
However we believe the seeds we have been planting have been critical to grow our Company and are going to pay off for us in the future which is why we’re calling for a breakout year in 2016.
Due to our inability to invest as aggressively as our peers in the early part of the housing recovery we’re behind the growth and profitability that many others have seen for the past two years.
However our investments are starting to catch up.
Over the past few years we have aggressively invested in growing our land position and we believe we are now on the cusp of achieving meaningful growth in revenues and profitability.
If you focus on inventory growth which we already achieved and you believe we can get our inventory turns back to the 2.2 times levels that we achieved as recently as 2013 than the illustrated scenarios which don’t incorporate any improvements in the overall housing market show how the growth of revenues and profitability falls into place.
Any benefit from an improvement in the housing market would only accelerate the top and bottom line growth shown in the base case scenarios.
If you analyze each of the components in these scenarios you’d realize that none of the underlying assumptions are unreasonable in light of our historical performance and prior cycles.
Even the upside scenarios utilize assumptions of certain financial metrics that are far more conservative than what we achieved in our previous up cycles.
We were at the very top of the performance metric for our industry in ’04 and ’05.
Clearly we’re still feeling the effect of our aggressive investments in those years which proceeded one of the greatest housing recessions our industry has ever seen.
We finally feel like we are in a position to once again deliver a solid performance metrics.
We look forward to delivering positive results beginning with the performance of our current fourth quarter and continuing into 2016.
That concludes our formal remarks and I’d be happy to turn it over and open up for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Andrew Casella of Imperial Capital.
Your line is open.
Hi guys.
Thanks for taking the question and thanks for all the color on the balance sheet and the modeling.
I guess firstly I just want to confirm that I’m understanding this correctly assuming again the high yield markets are not available to you on an economic basis.
You are in now way restricted from monetizing the inventory that you guys showed in that slide with the first and second wins and essentially monetizing that and paying off unsecured debt maturities is that correct via land bank or sale lease back? I mean what I said was perfectly accurate.
We can land bank any of our owned inventory we can do joint ventures and all the other capital alternative sources.
I said.
I’m not sure what you mean by monetize but if that’s what you mean by monetize yes that’s correct.
All right great.
Thanks.
And then just as my follow-up when we look at land banking today just curios how -- if it’s easy to execute a structure and how large a land banking agreement might be.
And I know in the past you’ve said you’ve done work with GSO I think they had done something up to $400 million.
What is the status of that facility? Is that still available and if there’s any remaining capacity under that agreement? Yes we are still doing business with GSO and have additional capacity with them and there’s other land bankers out there that we’ve done business with and want to do more with us so the type of transaction that I illustrated in my comments have taken $250 million or so of our current inventory and taken the land banker we do not think would be problematic.
Anything I would say there are more entrants into the land banking arena.
So that continues to be available for us.
All right great.
Thanks.
I’ll get back in the queue.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Nishu Sood of Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Thanks and I also appreciate all the color and the longer term information.
My first question is about the gross margin trajectory.
There was a nice improvement this quarter and Ara you’re mentioning obviously the reduction in specs as well as the stronger selling environment.
But the 4Q and the next year guidance doesn’t imply any further improvement.
But with that backdrop why wouldn’t we see further improvement in gross margins even in the next four five quarters? And Nishu as we always do we assume current market conditions remain unchanged when we’re making our projection.
So I think it’s safe to say kind of the current run rate of gross margins what we average for the full year of ’15 is a reasonable expectation for ’16.
So it’s just the methodology that we use.
If the market improves obviously there’s upside potential.
Our base case does assume the margin slowly goes back after the years of guidance in the modeling scenarios of 2017 and 2018 start to get it back to the margins that we had in ’13 and ’14.
Got it.
So just digging into that a little bit more.
Sitting back now now that you’ve come out of the down draft in gross margins and any other - they’re growing up again.
You mentioned specs as being a major driver.
The specs were only down I think you said to 48% of delivery down from I think 52% or 53% last quarter.
So I think if you could just maybe give us a little bit more numerical detail on the -- how much that was impacting margins and whether that was the main driver of the improvement sequentially in terms of the quarter.
So just maybe your broader thoughts on the weak selling environment or what's going to get it back up to 20% as it’s laid out in the longer term scenarios? Well Nishu I think we mentioned in the call that the margin on specs improved about 270 basis points sequentially I mean you can do the math on the balance there.
I’d say the overall margin virtually all of the public builders reported downward pressure on gross margin in the last couple of quarters compared to the prior year.
Part of that was driven by a little bit of a [headshake] [ph] if you will in 2013 where the market thought it was recovering and there was a lot of momentum a lot of pace increase and a lot of price increase.
That led to many including ourselves get a little more aggressive in land in 2014 but lo and behold the market took a little bit of a step back in 2014 and the recovery that looked like it was really beginning to roar in 2013 didn’t happen.
So the margins that came about from land that was purchased in 2014 were a little more disappointing when those deliveries happened that’s what occurred in 2015.
But as we burn through that and as the land market settled a little bit I think it’s reasonable in our illustrative modeling scenarios that they should get back to normal levels that we saw in ’13 and ’14.
Yes just to reiterate Nishu what Ara just said the reason that margins start to trend upward in the base case is nothing more than we’re burning through some of that land we bought in the later part of ’13 and into ’14.
And as we burn through that the new stuff that we’re doing today are closer to our normalized 20% margin.
So it’s logical for it to trend that way.
I’ll also add that we’re slowly burning through some of our older inventory that while it’s been impaired it does have lower margin contribution.
So that should also help in the future.
Thanks.
I appreciate the color.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Alan Ratner of Zelman &amp; Associates.
Your line is open.
Hi guys.
Thanks again for all the color and taking the question.
I guess on the absorption pace that you had seen in the out years you mentioned you’re not really assuming any significant change in conditions.
But it looks like you haven’t provided community count guidance but it looks like there’s probably some absorption improvement embedded in those delivery increases in ’16 and ’17 and ’18 as well.
So is that just a function of where you’re underwriting these deals today is similar to the margin -- the 20% margin that you’re assuming in the out years or is there some other driver there that brings that absorption level a little bit higher? In terms of the new communities that we’re acquiring we don’t make any assumptions about improvements in market condition.
So we take the most recent quarter’s kind of an absorption and pro forma of the land acquisition with that absorption in mind and the pace that you’ve seen in the model reflects that.
With respect to existing owned communities or controlled communities we allow our divisions two years out to modestly begin to tweak absorptions a little bit upward back towards normalized if they don’t get to normalize.
So it’s a subsection of the communities out in the future that make that kind of an assumption Alan if you understood that.
Got it.
I appreciate that.
And second question if you do decide to go down the land banking route and pursue those transactions in greater scale and you can kind of just walk through a little bit the terms on that you’re seeing today on land banking.
What type of impact would that have on gross margin? I would presume that those deals would generate a lower margin as they flow through on the delivery line.
You mentioned the 15% cash down up front but any info you can give on margin or takedown schedules or price depreciation that you need to bake in there would be appreciated.
You don’t bake any price depreciation in ever so that didn’t happen at all.
There would be some modest pressure on margins but it’s not as substantive as you might think.
And also Alan in general all of our alternative capital sources as I think we mentioned land banking as well as joint ventures actually increase our return on investment.
So while there is a little pressure on gross margins and not a lot as Larry pointed out it definitely enhances our return on investment.
Got it.
Thanks and good luck.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Michael Rehaut of JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Hi.
It’s actually Jason in for Mike.
First question is just on community count.
I appreciate the guidance on 2015 revenues and profitability.
But it would be helpful if you could give some color in terms of how you’re thinking about community count in 2016.
Do you think that that should grow at a rate that’s higher than what you’ll see in ’15 and if so could you maybe quantify what you might expect to see? Yes I think as we’ve repeatedly stated on prior calls predicting community count is a difficult number to predict because you could actually sell faster and therefore have fewer community counts than you’re expecting or you could have regulatory delays and temporarily not have as many communities as you would have expected.
So it’s not something we’re going to give you specific guidance on.
As I said in the fourth quarter we think community count will be a little more meaningful so that it gives you a head [ph] in 2016.
We do expect community count to continue to grow but what we’d like to really focus in on in terms of a surrogate for community count is that inventory turns.
And if you buy into the inventory turns being kind of reasonable and rational which we certainly believe it is based on our history it’s easy to get to the revenue numbers that we’re talking about.
Okay great.
Next question just on pricing power in general can you just talk a little bit about the overall pricing and incentive environment that you saw during the quarter; how much you think pricing is kind of on a same store basis for the quarter and then from a regional perspective where you’re seeing the most pricing power right now? I’d say certainly Northern California in the bay area is probably the strongest area with pricing power followed by South East Florida.
Those are probably two of the strongest markets overall in terms of pricing opportunity and what we’ve actually experienced.
Overall I wouldn’t say pricing power is the big story in terms of current performance right now.
It’s been more on absorptions and sales pace per community.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Sam McGovern of Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Hi guys.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Just going back to the liquidity levers I assume you’re going to use some combination to the extent you don’t revive of all four that you highlight there.
Can you talk about the relative attractiveness either from gross margin or return on capital standpoint to you guys? Yes I think all of them have an improvement in return on capital.
I think we would probably focus first on land banking maybe second on joint ventures just from a prioritization perspective that is probably ease of implementation rather than driven by impact on margin or return on capital.
Yes to some extent it also varies depending on the longevity of the asset.
So land banking is good for a medium term operating two or three years.
Three or four year assets are particularly good for joint ventures where you can get the multiple in return.
And then in certain markets project specific financing is more available it’s the cheapest of all three sources but not necessarily the highest return on capital because it’s a little less leverage.
So we imply as you started out on your assumption we tend to apply a mix of all the different capital types.
Okay great.
And then just in terms of the delivery expectations on the base case that you guys lay out how does that sort of correlate to consensus estimates that are out there for national housing starts I mean is it meaningfully different or I just haven’t -- hadn’t a lot of time to go through these numbers and see how that maps out.
So I mean certainly our guidance for ’16 implies a little more growth than most for the national market and I think that’s primarily because as we pointed out we had tremendous growth in inventory over the last two years in particular.
And as we showed in one of the slides our growth in inventory over the last year has been higher than all but two of our peers.
So based on that inventory then getting the land getting develop the models being built and actually delivering the homes.
I think it’s reasonable that our deliveries in this upcoming particular year would be higher than most on consensus for the overall market.
Thanks.
I’ll pass it along.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from James Finnerty of Citi.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
Good afternoon.
Just want to go back to the land banking just looking back at the initial transaction you did with GSO where it involved you own land could you just explain how the sort of mechanics how it worked.
You identified land and land went to GSO and did cash come to you in one quarter or did it come to you over a number of quarters? If you could identify sort of just how much cash actually transferred back to you in that initial transaction? I’m not sure I remember the specifics of that initial transaction but what happens is as we identify land that we own and we would show it to the land banker whether it would be GSO or whether it would be someone else.
They would underwrite it and decide whether they were willing to purchase it from us.
If they were willing to purchase it from us they would give us cash.
So I think the first was $100 million $150 million something in that order of magnitude.
Maybe -- $125 million maybe.
Yes maybe its $125 million but I’m not sure whether we identified $125 million all at once or whether that was filled over across a few months that may have crossed quarters I just don’t recall the specifics from that line or whatever it was.
And then just if we look back historically where would we see the cash coming in on the cash flow statement whether any line item that we should look for? Yes there’s actually in the financing section the cash flow statement is financing from land banking … Great.
That therefore the ones that we sell to somebody obviously if its owned to land bank where we haven’t owned the property then it just comes through as purchased inventory as we bought a lot.
Excellent.
And we do do a combination of both whether we acquire it first and then land banker buys it from us and in other cases while it’s under our contract the land banker buys it directly.
It really just depends on the details of timing and approvals.
Okay.
For recent years it’s been the later which is we’ll find land we’re interested in purchasing we’ll take it to the land banker they’ll purchase it and then grant us an auction and we only showed on our books as we take down those lots on adjusted time bases.
So there was some initially that we did that was off our balance sheet and there might have been a transaction or two later but it’s a minimal part of what we’ve done to date.
Great.
But just to address your upcoming maturities I think you would need to theoretically do one involving your land in order to generate the cash upfront I would imagine.
Yes that’s correct and again it’s something we’ve certainly done many times in the past.
Got you.
And just a separate question just back to the community count growth in ’16 I know you’re not going to give specific guidance.
But its been growing around the 5% clip what should we expect in ’16 that it’s going to be higher than that or same or just anything … Once again I think that’s the same question that was asked a moment ago and good try but we like almost every public builder hates trying to forecast community counts into the future just because there are so many factors out of our control that suffices to say as Larry pointed out last time this was asked the real focus should be on inventory which we’ve already got a ton behind us in ’14 and’15 and then inventory turnover.
And I use that as your own -- in your own model to forecast revenue growth and future revenues more than worrying about community count growth it’s just too hard to be real specific on that.
Yes I guess all that inventory has to turn into communities anyways.
If we have 10 000 -- control 10 000 more lots than we delivered homes on growth is coming.
Yes exactly.
Good.
Thanks very much.
Great quarter.
Thank you.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Susan Berliner of JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Thank you and thanks for all the detail on the presentation.
Very helpful.
I wanted to start I guess just with the weather in Texas and I was wondering if you guys could talk about I guess any delays down there in closing as well as what's going on on the labor cost front? Sure.
Well we certainly as I’m sure our peers have reported suffered from the very wet season in Houston and in Dallas but particularly Houston and it impacted our deliveries.
But we baked that into the guidance that we’ve given you.
Okay.
And I’d say on the labor front side especially Dallas I think our cycle times continued to elongate as there are some labor shortages in that market.
So the first delays were created because of weather and the wet weather and the land developers couldn’t get the lots finished in time so that’s caused some delays.
And now actually when we get the lots delivered labor shortages are causing elongated cycle times.
It’s happening to a lesser degree in Houston in terms of elongated cycle times but we are seeing longer cycle times in Houston as well as its just worse in Dallas.
Got you.
And then my only other question was with regards to I guess some of the other markets and I appreciate the color on Houston.
I was wondering if you could talk a little about the Mid-Atlantic and the North East and Mid-West because clearly the North East and Mid-Atlantic did pretty well on an order perspective.
Yes overall though the Mid-Atlantic is still suffering from a little hangover of sequestering.
It hasn’t seen the job growth and hasn’t quite come in the full recovery that it has enjoyed in other up-cycles.
The North East is somewhat similar although we’ve been fortunate in purchasing some similar.
Although we’ve been fortunate in purchasing some new land positions that are based on those slower markets and we’ve done quite well on them.
The key is to be able to purchase the assets at the correct value in today's slower environment.
But overall we have been helped a bit by some of the community count growth.
Great.
Thank you so much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Alex Barron of Housing Research.
Your line is open.
Thanks guys.
I was hoping you could discuss what kind of mortgage rate assumptions are you making in your longer term forecast.
Are you also assuming they stay around current levels? Yes I would say that we didn’t really make specific assumptions regarding mortgage rates there but I mean if you look at prior recoveries in every one of the prior recoveries in recent decades the interest rates are dramatically higher than they were are today and in those recoveries you had significantly higher starts than we are seeing today.
So we do not expect that even if we had a movement upward in interest rates that it would materially impact those projections in terms of housing activity in the U.S.
would even then still improve because it would be a reflection that the economy is better that jobs are being created so give me higher rates because the economy is doing dramatically better and I think our results would even be better.
I certainly think it’s reasonable to assume mortgage rates are going to creep up that certainly would be consensus and I don’t think you’d find us disagreeing with that prognosis.
On the other hand we offer in all of our communities a variety of home sizes and we also offer options and the ability for customers to add higher levels of finishes at a higher price.
I think it’s certainly possible that if interest rates go up that customers would select a slightly smaller house or slightly fewer options.
But generally speaking we price to as very similar gross margin on each of the home offerings in every community and our smaller homes have a similar gross margin to our larger homes.
So we’re somewhat indifferent and I think it’s logical to assume that that might transpire along the way.
And as Larry reminded to give you the specific if you go back to ’82 which was a recovering market mortgage rates actually were in the mid-teens and there were more homes sold and built in that year than there are right now.
So in the long run demographics or destiny customers may have to shift their expectations as to the type of house or the size of house or the finishes based on mortgage rates.
But in the end its demographics drive the need for housing and they should in growing numbers coming up and the housing starts and sales should follow.
Right.
So I think the issue I see just that’s different when the rates were higher versus now is that home prices were also maybe at least normally lower and that could have been just that outright prices were lower or builders were offering smaller type homes.
So I think that’s the only issue.
Yes I think you got to look and keep in mind on the affordability index and I think there is still a good amount of room for both price and mortgage rates before the affordability index gets to normal and historical levels.
I mean we are at an extremely even with the recent increase in prices we were at very high levels and in terms of the affordability index so certainly above historical norm.
So we could I think the market could absorb some rate increases before … I have the number and based on today's affordability index we could absorb 140 basis points increase in margin before we returned because the index today is almost 160 before we return to 135 which is just the past peak.
So I think from an affordability perspective Ara is absolutely correct is higher rates were not helpful.
So don’t misunderstand us Alex.
But I think the market would absorb it and again I’ll go back to my earlier comment that if rates go up there’s something good happening in the economy and I think that would board well for peoples desires to make home purchases.
Right.
And as part of your I guess five year outlook and so are you guys assuming basically the same type mix shift or is there any explicit strategy to try to move down the price curve to offer more affordable type communities? Very simplistic we just assume that our average price stayed flat for all five years.
Got it.
Okay.
We only -- we have a relatively short owned land position one of the shorter ones in the industry.
So as the market shift I think its reasonable to assume and it does all the time we have ample time to make adjustments in the type of lots that we purchase.
We always have the opportunity to shift this type of homes that we offer.
In general our company offers homes with a wide variety of sizes and prices.
And we’ve got experience from the lowest level of entry level homes to the highest level of high priced homes.
So we’re comfortable shifting our home designs and offerings as the market tells us and we could do it relatively quickly if we needed to.
Right.
Well I appreciate all the detail in the outlook and I wish you guys best of luck.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Megan McGrath of MKM Partners.
Your line is open.
Thanks for taking my question.
Just a couple of quick follow-ups on the pricing it looks like your guidance is implying a pretty significant increase in 4Q ASPs.
I assume that’s mix based on what you’ve said but if you could give a little bit more detail on what you’re expecting for next quarter that would be great.
Well maybe you’re taking total revenue and identified some delivery numbers so I don’t think there’s any material change in average price and are built into our guidance.
Well it looks like for the full year your guidance is for $397 000 and ASPs for fiscal ’15 and since you’ve been running in that mid $370 000 range that’s sort of where the math I was doing there to get to a $397 000 number that would need to bump up a lot next quarter? Yes we -- what was it in the third quarter Jeff? Consolidated was $374 000 but our sales price … Sale price.
Sales price that’s on delivery.
Yes that sales price.
The sales price was $404 000.
Yes.
So I think it’s just a reflection of what's in backlog.
Yes I was just going to say so basically to say and perhaps you’re looking at average sales price that’s on page 33 that shows our guidance in the base case that growth goes from $397 000 from ’15 for the full year to $415 000 its not because of assumptions that we can raise our price.
It is as you started primarily a shift in mix.
Okay great.
And I’ll follow-up on the other issue.
And then to follow-up on your conversation about inventory turns I know you talked about it a couple of times but it certainly is important to your guidance for ’16.
At the midpoint it looks like you’re looking for 30% plus growth in deliveries off of a year which would be we haven’t gotten the next couple of months but let’s say 10% to 15% orders.
So it sounds like you’re already expecting those inventory returns to kick up nicely next year.
So if you could just talk a little bit more about where that’s coming from and how you’re going to increase that conversion or those turns as early as next year? Two things is you’re taking unit count and we’re talking about revenue growth which means you’ve got to take the improvement that we’ve recently seen in average and the dollar amount of contracts which is 20 something percent versus the 15% in unit count Megan.
So that’s the first thing I would say.
The second thing I would say to that is because we’re flattening out the inventory.
We’re not going to continue to grow it as we’ve been growing it and therefore implicit inventory turns become a little bit higher.
Megan if you look at the appendix slide 33 and you focus on the top series of total inventory just to elaborate on the point Larry is making.
From ’13 to ’15 in just the last two years our inventory based on the guidance for our last quarter I mean most of its behind us but housing inventory grew almost a little more than 50% from $977 million to $1.5 million and the biggest occurred in this last 12 months.
So the inventory growth primarily comes when you buy land then you start developing it that’s a lot of the growth.
But when you buy and develop it you can't deliver it in the same quarter.
So if you then look at that same line you see that the guidance we’re giving ’16 and ’17 is dramatically less.
We grow just a $100 million ’16 as opposed to about $500 million in the prior two years and then another $140 million in ’17.
So inventory growth is moderating and we’re pertaining or transforming the inventory that we just bought in ’14 and ’15 into deliveries and that’s why we’re projecting the inventory turnover can return to more normal levels.
On that same slide if you look at inventory turnovers you can see that it’s recently its ’13 we were almost at 2.2 times turns.
We’re only projecting to get to 1.95 in the guidance for ’16.
So I think they’re fairly reasonable assumptions regarding turnover.
And implicit for ’16 Megan is similar to what I said earlier is when you have 10 000 more lots acquired than home delivery it implied some growth and part of that growth is a growth in community count although we’re not giving you specifics for 2016 community count growth there is community count growth assumed and going to occur in our guidance its implicit within our guidance.
We’re just not comfortable giving you the precise number.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Adam Goodwin of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Hi this is Derek Ching on for Adam.
Just going back to slide 18 where you laid out asset coverage for the 2% and the 5% notes.
Our understanding is that your debt incurrence capacity goes up on a dollar for dollar basis with the underlying collateral and the equity in the joint ventures and based on what you provided on the slide there you’d be able to incur close to $60 million in debt in that box for refinancing purposes.
Can you just confirm this for us.
I think if it was only within that box you’re right but I think there is a guarantor they may endue specific because I’m going to mess this up but we need to have capacity to do secured -- additional secured in the other side of the secured bonds and unsecured bonds as well.
So I think we’re limited to something less than $60 million at this time even though we could do it if it was only with respect to the twos and fives.
That wouldn’t -- I think I got the point across.
Okay got it.
And then in terms of your third party liquidity sources I mean is there anyway you can quantify the size of the different buckets whether it’s the land banking or the model of sale of the lease back and are there any limit or constraints around how much you can do there? In theory okay there’s no limitation upon us.
If we wanted to take our entire $1.6 billion of inventory and land we wouldn’t do that but in theory we have the capacity from a covenant perspective to do that.
I mean we don’t have limitations we’re not intending to do that.
But what we’re trying to convey to you is we have liquidity levers that will more than take care of our near-term maturities.
Okay great.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Joel Locker of FBN Securities.
Your line is open.
Hi guys.
Just kind of quick question on amortized interest going forward its been in the mid 200 basis point range and just went up to well over 300.
Just what to do expect going forward there? I think the best case -- the best thing to do is assume it would stay relatively consistent to what we’re running at now.
What ends up happening is depending on what happens with land development and projects and how long it takes to get through those projects capitalized interest can go up up or down per home depending on the individual projects so it can vary.
But I think it’s safe to say that to assume something somewhere where we’re at now that’s reasonable.
Right.
That was just a small inventory return that caused the [multiple speakers].
Right.
That’s what happened.
All right.
Thanks a lot guys.
Thank you.
We have a follow-up from James Finnerty of Citi.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Just follow-up on the question regarding the collateral ratio covenants.
Just for both sets of secured bonds is there a minimum collateral ratio that you have to maintain? It’s a question I get a lot of times.
No.
Okay it’s just more of if you make -- for the certain ratio if I guess 175% for the bigger issue you’re able to do certain things? Right.
That’s what my understanding was.
Thank you very much.
I appreciate that.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Peter Levinson of Waveny.
Your line is open.
Hi guys.
Thanks for taking my call and thanks for all the color.
With all due respect to the sell side analyst community I think you guys might agree what we’re seeing here is just repeating where the world had you guys dead going into the last crisis you showed that you had many levers to pull.
You’re laying out the blueprint here again I think last time at least according to the press your land bank partner made a lot of money by selling the front end of your CDS and I’m wondering why the company can't capitalize on some of these discounts that we’re seeing.
As you know the preferred stock is obviously the hugest discount but is it frustrating to you to hear the same questions T-plus seven eight years and the same doubts or is it an opportunity? Thanks.
And also a follow-up.
Ara you timed your last stock sale very well.
I guess we’re not going to see more of those and I’d like to see some insider buying.
Thanks.
Actually my stock sale had to do with the fact that I’m renovating my personal residence and just purchased a townhouse right before it that I renovated.
So really had nothing zero to do with timing and frankly that rather would have the stock but just had to do what I had to do to finish my personal residence.
Regarding the first part of your question of course it’s frustrating and I can understand some of the doubts that are out in the market place.
But we just had to put our head down and keep ploughing forward.
As I mentioned in my comment back in ’04 and ’05 in a solid market place we were not only at the top of the industry in terms of performance in most metrics return on equity growth and sales stock price appreciation total return to shareholders.
We were actually at the top of the number two in the Fortune 500 for ’04 and ’05.
We certainly got caught up in the euphoria of that performance and really increased our investments significantly at what turned out to be the peak of the market place.
And then obviously the rest is history.
We saw an unprecedented recession and we are paying the price for that.
But we made it through the most difficult and challenging times.
We really feel like we’re in a good position and we hope to prove what we can do in the coming quarters.
Great.
I appreciate that.
And any comment on whether the company can capture any of this discount rather than just …? No I think our first priority Peter is to focus on executing our business plan and to execute our business plan we are going to raise capital if necessary in order to pay down debt as it matures and invest in land.
So I would say it’s not a priority at this point to be capturing discount on the preferred or on the debt.
You never say never but it’s just not our priority at this time.
Understood.
Thanks very much.
Okay.
Thank you.
I’m showing no further questions.
I would like to hand the call back to Ara Hovnanian for closing remarks.
Thank you very much.
We’re obviously pleased with the sales results that we’ve reported for the quarter.
We feel good about the sales that continue right into August in the first month of our fourth quarter.
We’re looking forward to having better quarters ahead starting with a great fourth quarter to the one that we’re currently in and continuing on to 2016.
So I think that ends our comments and Q&amp;A for today and we’ll look forward to reporting better results in the quarters to come.
Thank you.
This concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you all for participating and have a nice day.
All parties may now disconnect.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for Hovnanian Enterprises Fiscal 2015 Fourth Quarter and Year End Earnings Conference Call.
An archive of the webcast will be available after the completion of the call and run for 12 months.
This conference is being recorded for rebroadcast and all participants are currently in a listen-only mode.
Management will make some opening remarks about the fourth quarter results and then open up the line for questions.
The Company will also be webcasting a slide presentation along with the opening comments from management.
Those slides are available on the Investors' page of the Company's Web site at www.khov.com.
Those listeners who would like to follow along should log on to the Web site at this time.
Before we begin I would like to turn the call over to Jeff O'Keefe Vice President-Investor Relations.
Jeff please go ahead.
Thank you operator and thank you all for participating in this morning's call to review the results of our fourth quarter and year ended October 31 2015.
All statements in this conference call that are not historical facts should be considered as forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such statements involve known and unknown risks uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results performance or achievements of the company to be materially different from any future results performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements.
Such forward-looking statements include but are not limited to the statements related to the Company's goals and expectations with respect to its financial results for the current or future period including total revenues and adjusted pre-tax profit.
Although we believe that our plans intentions and expectations reflected in or suggested by such forward-looking statements are reasonable we can give no assurance that such plans intentions or expectations will be achieved.
By their nature forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they’re made are not guarantees of future performance or results and are subject to risks uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict or quantify.
Therefore actual results could differ materially and adversely from those forward looking statements as a result of a variety of factors.
Such risks uncertainties and other factors include but are not limited to changes in general and local economic industry and business conditions and impacts of the sustained homebuilding downturn; adverse weather and other environmental conditions and natural disasters; levels of indebtedness and restrictions on the Company's operations and activities imposed by the agreements governing the Company's outstanding indebtedness; the Company's sources of liquidity; changes in credit ratings; changes in market conditions and seasonality of the Company's business; the availability and cost of suitable land and improved lots shortages in and price fluctuations of raw materials and labor; regional and local economic factors including dependency on certain sectors of the economy and employment levels affecting home prices and sales activity in the markets where the Company builds homes; fluctuations in interest rates and availability of mortgage financing; changes in tax laws affecting the after-tax cost of owning a home operations through joint ventures with third-parties government regulation including regulations concerning development of land the homebuilding sales and customer financing processes tax laws and the environment product liability litigation warranty claims and claims made by mortgage investors; levels of competition; availability in terms of financing to the Company; successful identification and integration of acquisitions; significant influence of the Company's controlling stockholders; availability of net operating loss carryforwards; utility shortages and outages or rate fluctuations; geopolitical risks terrorist acts and other acts of war; and certain risks uncertainties and other factors described in detail in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31 2014 and subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Except as otherwise required by applicable securities laws we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events change in circumstances or any other views.
Joining me today from the Company are Ara Hovnanian Chairman President and CEO; Larry Sorsby Executive Vice President and CFO; Brad O'Connor Vice President Chief Accounting Officer and Controller and David Bachstetter Vice President-Finance and Treasurer.
I'll now turn the call over to Ara Hovnanian.
Ara go ahead.
Thanks Jeff.
We’re pleased that we’ve exceeded our guidance for gross margin SG&amp;A ratios and pretax profit for the fourth quarter of fiscal ’15 it is a great ending to the year and a precursor of better performance ahead.
I’d like to review a few of the key metrics for the quarter and let me get started with net contracts which can be found on Slide number 3.
On the left hand side we show the dollar amount of net contracts including unconsolidated joint ventures increased 29% while the number of net contracts we signed increased 21%.
If you look at consolidated net contracts without the joint ventures as we’ve done on the right hand side we had a 22% increase in dollars and 18% increase in the number of net contracts.
On Slide 4 our net contracts per community including our unconsolidated joint ventures increased from 6.4 to 7.1 during the fourth quarter up 11% while consolidated net contracts per community increased 8%.
On top of that our community count increased by 9% during the fourth quarter.
Combination of more communities selling at a better pace yielded from solid results for us.
Slide 5 shows on the left side that the dollar amount of our contract backlog including unconsolidated joint ventures increased 49% to $1.35 billion while the number of homes in backlog increased 33%.
Consolidated net contract backlog shown on the right increased 42% to $1.2 billion at the end of the fourth quarter compared to $856 million at quarter end last year.
At the end of fourth quarter our consolidated backlog units increased from 2 229 to 2 905 up 30% year-over-year.
This 42% increase in consolidated backlog dollars combined with the recent strength in sales trends bodes well for expected revenues and profitability growth during 2016.
Turning to Slide 6 in the top left hand quadrant we show that our total revenues declined by 1% to $693 million during the fourth quarter.
This decrease was primarily due to a 2% year-over-year decline in deliveries offset by 1% year-over-year increase in average sales price of our homes delivered.
Larry will discuss revenues a little more fully in just a moment.
The upper right portion of the slide shows that the gross margins for the fourth quarter were 18% down 130 basis points from last year but up 20 basis points from the third quarter and 40 basis points higher than our guidance.
While the increases were small this was our second consecutive quarter of sequential gross margin increases.
Moving to the lower left quadrant we see that our total SG&amp;A as a percentage of total revenues decreased 7.1%.
SG&amp;A expenses during the fourth quarter included a $15 million benefit related to a reduction of our construction defect reserves.
Without this benefit our SG&amp;A ratio for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015 would have been 9.3% which is the same as last year’s fourth quarter and a significant improvement from the 12.6% SG&amp;A ratio in the third quarter of 2015.
Finally in the lower right hand portion you see that for the fourth quarter of fiscal ’15 we reported a pretax profit excluding land related charges and gains or losses from the extinguishment of debt of $42 million versus our $22 million guidance.
Even if you ignore the $15 million benefit from reducing construction debt defect reserves our pretax profit of $27 million exceeded our $22 million guidance for the fourth quarter.
Let me go into a little more detail about our gross margin on Slide 7 on the left hand side of the slide we show our quarterly gross margin for all of 2015.
As we’ve discussed during our second and third quarter analyst calls our gross margin during the second quarter in particular was negatively impacted by lower than normal gross margins on spec homes which we defined as started and unsold homes.
It’s not unusual for spec homes to be sold with lower gross margins than to be built homes but the increased incentive we offered on second quarter spec deliveries were atypical.
Much of the improvement in gross margins we saw during the third and fourth quarter was due to both reducing the number of spec homes that we offered for sale and the steps we took to lower the levels of incentives and concessions offered on spec homes.
Additionally we’re seeing a little pricing power in a few geographies around the country.
The percentage of deliveries from spec homes decreased from 52% during the second quarter to 48% in the third quarter and reduced even further to 41% in this year's fourth quarter.
On the right hand portion of the slide we show our annual gross margin percentages from 2011 to 2015 in both '13 and '14 we've reported annual gross margins of approximately 20% a level that we consider to be in the normal range.
However in 2015 we saw that number dip to 17.6%.
The year-over-year decline is primarily due to cost pressures on labor and material higher price land purchases from 2013 when the market seemed a little stronger and a little slowing in the market in the beginning of the year causing greater incentives.
Additionally our gross margin was also adversely impacted by our spec sales strategy during the first half of the year.
Finally the elongated cycle times are increasing construction supervision for home which is a part of gross margin costs.
The increased we've seen on the labor cost are primarily due to labor shortages in certain markets where we're seeing increased demand.
We're feeling the same thing that many of our peers have been talking about these labor shortages are causing cycle times to increase.
We're not seeing labor shortages in all of our markets some markets are worse than others.
For us cycle times have increased the modes in the Dallas Fort [ph] worth market in Dallas we've seen construction cycle time go from five to six months to about seven to eight months.
This is a significant increase in cycle times obviously and markets where we've been experiencing longer build time we're proactively managing our home buyer's expectations about their expected delivery dates.
We're not the only builder that has felt the pressure on its gross margins this past year.
Turning to Slide 8 we show a comparison of our gross margins in blue for the most recent quarter and in yellow for 13 of our public peers.
At the top of each bar is an arrow which indicates the year-over-year change in gross margin for each of the builders.
12 of the 14 builders reported year-over-year declines in gross margin one reported a slight increase and one was flat.
Eight of the builders that had margin decline -- excuse me eight of the builders had margin decline in excess of 100 basis points.
Although it doesn't make us feel better about our year-over-year decline in gross margin it's clear that this was an industry wide phenomenon that impacted the best majority of our peers as well.
Let me update you on the progress of reducing our specs on Slide 9 you can see that for the past consecutive four quarters we've reduced the number of spec homes per community.
They have fallen from 4.7 at the end of the fourth quarter of '14 to 3.7 at the end of '15's fourth quarter.
Turning to Slide 10.
We show our total annual SG&amp;A expense as a percentage of total revenues going back to 2001 which can be seen on the left hand part of the slide.
We consider 10% in normalized SG&amp;A ratio.
As we do every year in our fourth quarter we enlisted an actuarial firm to conduct the study to estimate reserves necessary to cover outstanding exposure for reserve related to construction defects.
Any increases or decreases of these reserves impact our SG&amp;A expenses.
As a result of improvements in our construction defect claims over the past two years the impact of those improvements on the actuarial analysis of our total reserves.
We've reported a $13 million reduction in our construction defect reserves during the fourth quarter of '15.
If you exclude this benefit our SG&amp;A level for 2015 were similar to last year.
On the right hand portion of the slide you see that our fourth quarter SG&amp;A ration including the $15 million benefit from reducing our construction reserves declined to 7.1% which is shown in the dark blue.
If you exclude the $15 million benefit it would have been 9.3% which is consistent with the prior year's fourth quarter.
As we move forward we expect our increases in deliveries and revenues to grow much faster than the incremental increases to our SG&amp;A expense and as such we anticipate our SG&amp;A ration will approach our normalized 10% level for our fiscal 2016 year.
I'll now turn it over to Larry Sorsby our executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Thanks Ara.
We were pleased that we exceeded our fourth quarter guidance for gross margin profitability and lower SG&amp;A expense ratio.
However our total revenues fell a bit short of our guidance.
This was driven by two factors a 3% miss and the miss of actual deliveries been skewed more towards lower priced homes than we expected.
Similar to the comments you've heard from some of our peers the delivery miss was caused by construction delays in several of our markets.
This resulted in our fourth quarter total revenues being $52 million less than our guidance of $745 million.
Turning now to Slide 11.
We show that dollar amount of our net contract including unconsolidated joint ventures per month for each of the past 12 months.
Most recent month is shown in blue the same for the previous year is shown in yellow and we use green arrows pointed up to indicate an increase and down red arrows to indicate a decrease.
Our recent sales trends have been strong 11 of the past 12 months have increased.
More recently the results have been even stronger.
The dollar value of our net contracts for the past eight months increased 27% year-over-year when you include unconsolidated joint ventures and increased 20% year-over-year on a consolidated basis.
The year-over-year increases in our sales results should lead to dramatically improving revenue in fiscal 2016.
While Slide 11 shows the dollar amount of net contracts Slide 12 shows the number of monthly net contracts per unit.
For seven of the last eight months our year-over-year monthly comparisons have been positive.
On Slide 13 we show our net contract results restacked as if we had a September quarter end so that we could compare our results to nine of our public peers who report a September quarter end.
The year-over-year results range from a decline of 0.3% to an increase of 18.8%.
We were up 18.8% and tied for the highest year-over-year increase.
Our positive sales momentum carried over into October and November.
During October we saw the number of net contracts including unconsolidated joint ventures increased 30% and the number of consolidated net contracts increased 24%.
In November including unconsolidated joint ventures we had a 23% increase in the number of contracts and a 27% increase in the dollar amount of net contracts.
On a consolidated basis the number of net contracts reached 17% while the dollar amount of net contracts increased 16%.
On Slide 14 we tried to put the current sales situation into perspective with a longer term view.
The dark blue bar on the far left shows that we averaged 44 net contracts per community per year from 1997 to 2002 a period of neither boom nor robust times [ph].
Then in yellow we showed average net contracts for community bottoming at 21.3 per year in 2011 followed by two years of improvement in 2012 and '13 at 28.1 and 30.7 per year respectively.
Surprisingly we along with the entire home building industry took a step backwards in sales space per community in 2014 28.4 net contracts per year.
Looking at the gray bar this shows the net contracts per community for all of fiscal 2015 was 30.
This is now approaching the 30.7 contracts per community level we saw in fiscal 2013.
One big difference between 2015 and 2013 is that we ended 2015 with an improving trend.
If you look at the last quarter 2013 '14 and '15 which we show on the right hand side of the slide you can see that the fourth quarter net contracts per community have increased year-over-year in both '14 and '15.
This improvement in sales pace per community in fiscal '15 is certainly a step in the right direction and we hope it is a positive trend that will continue into fiscal 2016.
Houston remains a hot topic within our industry so I want to provide a brief update on what we're seeing in the net market.
With an average sales price of 302 000 in Houston compared to our company average sales price of 396 000 our primary focus in Houston is on entry level and first time move up product.
After strong sales results during the month of July we saw declines in our sales results during the fourth quarter.
Turning to Slide 15 you can see our quarterly net contracts per community in Houston for '13 '14 and '15.
During the fourth quarter of 2015 the net contracts per community decreased to 5 compared to 5.6 in the fourth quarter of 2014.
We also saw the absolute number of net contracts in Houston decrease by 9% year-over-year during the fourth quarter.
Reversing the trends we saw in the fourth quarter our first quarter net contract results for Houston have started on a positive note.
For the month of November the number of net contracts in Houston were around 13% and the net contracts per community increased 9% versus last year.
Our focus on lower average price points not building in highly competitive master plan communities and less exposure to the energy corridor have allowed us to continue to outperform the overall new home market in Houston.
Turning to Slide 16 it shows some other details of our Houston operations.
For all of fiscal 2015 Houston accounted for 16% of our home building revenues.
At the end of the year our inventory in Houston was only 10% of our total home building inventory.
So even though 16% of our full year home revenues were from Houston we don't have much capital tied up in that market.
Houston is primarily a market where we control land through option contracts with quarterly finished lot takedowns and therefore it is not as capital intensive as some of our other markets.
To further illustrate this point as of October 31st 2015 we controlled 3 023 lots in Houston almost 50% of those lots are currently optioned with our deposits totaling only $4.7 million.
This represents an average option deposit of about $3 000 per lot in Houston compared with our company average of approximately $5 000 per lot.
If the Houston market started to materially deteriorate we would be able to renegotiate our option contracts or walk away from our option contracts with only a modest expense.
Our owned land position in Houston is relatively short at about 17 months’ supply.
The 17 months’ supply in Houston compares to our countrywide average supply excluding mothballed lots of 32 months of owned lots in the remainder of our markets.
At the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015 we had 52 active selling communities in Houston and another 11 communities in planning.
Slide 17 shows an analysis that John Burns Real Estate Consulting did back in September on the distribution of communities for us and several of our peers in the Houston market.
They split the market into two broad geographies West-North corridor which contains what is commonly called the energy corridor which is shown in blue and the East-South corridor which is shown in red what they found was that we had much less exposure to the West-North or energy corridor that our peers.
We think this coupled with our strategy of focusing on lower priced homes and not building in master planned communities in Houston has served us as well.
In summary after 12 months of significantly lower oil prices our margins and profitability level in Houston remain very strong.
In 2016 our dependence on Houston from both a profitability and volume perspective is expected to decrease as other parts of our operations are expected to grow while Houston is expected to level off.
Despite another solidly profitable year for our Houston operations we remain cautious about the impact of lower oil prices on the Houston economy.
We continue to keep a close eye on the market and will take appropriate actions should any further developments arise.
Moving back to overall Company on Slide 18 it shows that our consolidated community count has grown steadily over the past two years.
There's a lot of activity that goes into an increase of 18 communities that we saw in the last year.
During the last 12 months we opened 101 new communities and close-out of 83 older communities growing our community count from 201 to 219.
We expect to see continued community count growth during 2016.
Turning to Slide 19 you'll see our owned and optioned land position broken out by our publicly reported market segments.
Our investment in land optioned deposits was $83 million invested in predevelopment expenses.
Subsequent to the end of the fourth quarter we finalized and funded our joint venture for a 14-story building along the white hot Hudson River Waterfront in West New York New Jersey.
We are very excited on unmothballed and to start construction on the 278 home communities.
It should result in profits with minimal additional capital investments for us.
In fact $26 million of cash that we had already invested in this community was paid back to us in November when we signed the joint venture agreement.
We also opened the first of our recently unmothballed communities in Natomas in Northern California to strong sales and above average margins in total we have 632 lots to be delivered in Natomas including several other new Natomas communities opening later in fiscal 2016.
Looking at all of our consolidated communities in the aggregate including mothballed communities we have an inventory book value of $1.6 billion net of $540 million of impairments.
We've recorded those impairments on 72 of our communities for the properties that have been impaired we're carrying [ph] them at 23% of their pre-impaired value.
Another area of discussion for the quarter is related to our deferred tax asset valuation allowance.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014 we reversed $285 million of our deferred tax asset valuation allowance.
We should reverse the remaining valuation allowance when we begin generating higher levels of sustained profitability.
At the end of fiscal 2015 our valuation allowance in the aggregate was $635 million.
The remaining valuation allowance is a very significant asset not currently reflected on our balance sheet and we’ve taken numerous steps to protect it.
We will not have to pay cash federal income taxes on approximately $2 billion of future pre-tax earnings.
On Slide 20 we ended the fourth quarter with a total shareholders' deficit of $128 million.
If you add back the remaining valuation allowance as we've done on this slide then our shareholders' equity would be a positive $507 million.
If you look at this on a per share basis it is $3.45 per share which means that yesterday’s closing stock price of $1.71 per share our stock is trading at a 50% discount to our adjusted tangible book value per share.
Over time we believe that we can repair our balance sheet by returning to higher levels of profitability and have no intentions of issuing equity any time soon.
As seen on Slide 21 after spending $192 million on land and land development and paying off $61 million of debt that matured on October 15th during our fourth quarter we still ended the year with $250 million of liquidity.
We once again ended the quarter in excess of our target liquidity range of $170 million to $245 million.
Keep in mind that the two land banking arrangements totaling $300 million were first quarter 2016 event and did not increase our cash position at yearend.
Now turning to our debt maturity ladder which can be found on Slide 22.
Looking ahead we have $173 million that comes due January 15 2016 and another $87 million that comes due on May 15th.
Recently the high yield market for CCC credit companies including Hovnanian has been difficult while our preference is to refinance these near term maturities as they come due we will chose to pay them off with cash if we are not receptive to the prevailing high yield rates where the market for CCC issuers is not open.
We have already taken steps primarily with two land banking transactions to ensure we have sufficient liquidity to both payoff these near-term maturities as well continue to grow our company.
Turning to Slide 23 on our last call I went into detail to explain some of liquidity levers we have available.
Four levers listed on this slide are land banking joint ventures non-recourse project specific loans and model sale leasebacks.
I will take a moment to highlight recent activity that we've had for each of these.
The first lever is land bank on October 8th we announced the $125 million land banking arrangement with Domain Real Estate Partners an affiliate of DW Partners and yesterday we announced a $175 million land banking arrangement with GSO an affiliate of The Blackstone Group.
After taking into account the inventory that will be included in both the DW and GSO land banking transactions there remains over $500 million of inventory on our balance sheet today that is available for additional land banking joint venture and project financing transactions.
In addition to that the company also has the ability to utilize these same levers for all of our future land transactions.
Second lever is Joint Ventures as I mentioned earlier in November we entered into a new joint venture for a 278 unit mid-rise building in New Jersey that generated $26 million of cash proceeds back to Hovnanian.
Since the beginning of fiscal 2015 we closed on two joint ventures including the mid-rise in New Jersey totaling over $300 million committed capital.
Furthermore we continue to talk with potential partners about additional joint ventures.
The market for joint ventures with us is active and vibrant.
Our third lever is Non-recourse project loans during the fourth quarter we entered into four new non-recourse project specific loans.
For all of fiscal 2015 we've added loans that allow us to borrow up to a $131 million to fund land development and/or vertical construction at very competitive rate.
At October 31 2015 we had $144 million of non-recourse financing outstanding.
We continue to close on additional non-recourse project financings we expect to continue as far as on additional ones non-recourse project financing in future quarters as well.
Finally we continue to utilize our model sale leasebacks.
For all of fiscal 2015 we closed $43 million of model sale leasebacks as we opened new communities during fiscal 2016 we intend to finance new model homes with our model sales leaseback program.
Even though these alternative capital sources are more administratively burdensome each of these levers provides us with additional liquidity and enhances our returns on capital.
Keep in mind that these are the same levers we talked about in 2009 and successfully executed at a point in time when both Hovnanian and the housing markets were at a much tougher position than we find ourselves now.
Let me reiterate while we still prefer to access a high yield market to refinance our debt we believe that we can continue to utilize the levers outlined above which will allow us to payoff near-term debt as it matures and allow us to continue the growth that our business plans contemplate.
As you can see on the left hand side of Slide 24 we've been aggressively investing in the land over the last three years.
We've gained control of about 9 700 more lots than we actually delivered homes on during that period of time and our land acquisition teams across the country continue to work hard to identify new land parcels to purchase today.
Over the past three years we've grown inventories by 71% and we now expect that inventory growth will drive increase deliveries revenues and profit in fiscal 2016.
I'll now turn it back to Ara for some closing comments.
Thanks Larry.
I was pleased we exceeded our fourth quarter guidance and profitability even without the extra boost from reserves.
If you move on to liquidity we're comfortable with our position at year end and given the steps that Larry outlined to enhanced our liquidity position I'm confident that we can remain within our target range of cash even if we don’t refinance our bonds maturing in January and May of 2016.
I want to elaborate on our inventory for a moment by taking a look at our longer term trends in our inventory levels.
Slide 25 shows quarterly inventory levels going back to 2008.
Because of the financial constraints that we had in the great recession we had less capital to spend on land and therefore near the bottom of the cycle we were less aggressive on investing in land than some of our peers.
As a result many of our peers have been able to recover much more quickly and achieved improved levels of profitability sooner than we have.
This is apparent when you look at the lack of growth we had in our inventory from the fourth quarter '09 through the third quarter of 2012.
During this time our inventory was relative stable as we didn't have sufficient capital to grow our inventory levels.
That changed recently as you can see by the 71% increase in inventory on the right hand portion of the slide.
If you turn to Slide 26 you can see that even more clearly.
Since the fourth quarter of fiscal '12 we've increased from -- our inventories from $891 million to $1.5 billion up 71%.
Since much of our inventory investment is in raw land it takes time to obtain the final permits grade the land install the utilities and build the streets.
That work is well underway and community growth that we’ve been working towards is now occurring.
Additionally our fourth quarter demonstrates some of the benefits of our growth in inventory.
First as shown on Slide 27 we achieved a 29% increase in contract dollars including unconsolidated joint ventures and 22% year-over-year increase in consolidated net contract dollars during the fourth quarter.
As indicated on Slide 28 we ended the year with 49% increase in the dollar amount of our contract backlog including unconsolidated joint ventures 42% increase without the joint ventures.
Increases of this magnitude give us the confidence in our ability to substantially increase revenues and profitability during 2016.
This is solid evidence that the growth we have planned for ’16 and beyond is realistic.
To utilize an analogy our increased investment in inventories was like a farmer planting his crops.
It takes a while for the crops to grow and ripen so we can harvest them.
Fiscal 2016 represents the beginning of our harvest.
Due to financial constraints again we were a little late to the party compared to some of our peers but we can now feel see and touch the growth we expect to achieve in 2016 and beyond.
I’d like to reiterate our expectations for all of fiscal ’16 assuming no changes in market conditions including the construction delays that we’ve already seen due to shortages of labor in our markets we expect to report total revenues between $2.7 billion and $3.1 billion for all of fiscal ’16.
We expect our gross margin for all of ’16 to be between 16.8% and 18%.
We expect total SG&amp;A as a percentage of our total revenues for all of ’16 to be between 9.8% and 10.2% which as we mentioned earlier was approaching normal levels for us historically.
Excluding any land related charges gains or losses from the extinguishment of debt or other non-recurring items we expect pretax profit for all of fiscal ’16 to be between $40 million and $100 million.
Over the past few years we have aggressively invested in growing our inventory and we believe we’re now on the cusp of achieving meaningful growth in both revenues and profitability.
Furthermore we recently made a number of changes to our management team these additions are all seasoned and industry professional who’ll be instrumental in our future successes and they’re all integrating very well into our organization.
We look forward to delivering specifically -- significantly improved results beginning with performance of our current first quarter and continuing through the remainder of 2016 and beyond.
That concludes our formal remarks and we’ll be happy to open it up for questions.
Thank you.
The Company will now answer questions so that everyone has an opportunity to ask questions.
Participants will be limited to one question and a follow up.
After which they will have to get back into the queue to ask another questions.
At this time we will open the call to questions [Operator Instructions].
Our first question comes from the line of Sam McGovern from Credit Suisse.
If we can go back to Slide 23 where you guys laid up liquidity levers.
I was hoping you guys could discuss a little bit more about your plans going forward.
I mean how much more additional land banking should we expect whether that land banking are shifting in focus from raising liquidity towards investing in new lands and how much more additional JVs non-recourse [indiscernible] and model of sales lease back should we expect? We currently have all those levels available and I think we’ve done the two significant transactions with DW as well as with GSO and that covers our needs pretty much through the May liquidity or the May bonds that are maturing.
But as we look at new land transactions going forward I think we will probably do more of that in the form of either getting project specific debt getting land banking or getting joint ventures in place until such time as the high yield market for CCC issuer such as ourselves becomes available at a reasonable price.
Just want to add also one other comment and that’s this huge growth in inventory levels that we’ve experienced we’re not projecting to continue that kind of pace going forward.
We really have digested the big growth we’ve got a lot of land under development right now.
So we expect a lot more modest growth in inventories as we reap what we’ve already invested and that means a lot less demand on our capital needs.
And then as we -- as you guys sort of see the effect of the two land banking transactions that you guys recently announced.
If we look back at the slides from the last quarter where you guys laid out your expectations for the future and the upside downside of base cases.
Is it -- what should we expect the impact that it has just lower inventory lower debt and lower gross margins what other impacts should we running through on our model? When we land bank an asset that we had already owned which is what we pretty much announced with respect to DW and what our significant portion of the GSO land banking arrangement is it doesn't flow through gross margins at all it flows through -- the impact flows through interest expense.
So that would be the first thing you need to think through.
Obviously we've paid off as bunch of debt by not refinancing the debt that came due in October and the debt that's going to come due in January.
If we don't refinance debt we'll be paying off a lot of debt so we'll be getting rid of that interest expense and replacing it with interest expense with respect to these land banks.
You had more to your question so ask it again.
If there were other impacts on that model beyond those levels? I mean it would temporarily reduce numbers as we took that off of our balance sheet and then it comes back on our balance sheet on a just-in-time basis we take down to finish a lot.
So it's just a timing difference.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Nishu Sood from Deutsche Bank.
Thanks and following up on the implications to gross margin that's very helpful Larry the description of that impact flowing through interest expense as opposed to gross margins.
Your guidance for '16 implies flattish gross margins against this year given that the land banking is not going to be a drag on the gross margins what's going into that assumption? Its sounds like from that the pricing trend and the lower spec and decent demand and it sounds like a conservative assumption given those favorable tailwind so I was just wondering if you could walk us through why you are only forecasting a flat year-over-year given? And then I see the harvest analogy that Ara was using as well why only flat given all those tailwinds? I mean the margin projection for all of '16 is not dissimilar with what we had for all of '15.
It would be the first thing that I would point out and we still -- it’s built from bottoms up we didn’t even take back community basis in each of our business units based on current absorption prices current construction cost current sales prices and that's kind of the range that we're comfortable with right now if the market continues to improve obviously there could be some upside to our margins.
And only other additional point is as Larry described when we land bank existing assets it flows through interest not gross margin but on our normal basis as we do land banking and we do anticipate returning to our normal land banking process which is that we close simultaneous over the land banker actually closes first that does flow through gross margin and in general we'll do a little more land banking probably if we don't refinance than we would have so that's all factored into the gross margins as well.
Second question on the average selling prices the ASP in the fourth quarter was a little lower than we would have expected given the selling ASP.
Larry you mentioned that similar to other builders higher priced homes with longer delivery cycles are the ones that have been more prone to delays.
So if that's the main driver for -- ASP is coming in a bit lower than expected should we expect a [multiple speakers].
No no no let me back you up.
I made that comments specifically with respect to the Houston marketplace not the overall markets that we're in.
Got it.
Okay then if you could help us understand the lag in ASPs versus your order prices and how we should expect that to flow as we head into 2016 please.
I mean if you look at the average price and contract backlog at quarter end -- end of the year including joint ventures is $433 000 on a consolidated basis it’s $418 000.
I mean that's probably your best indication of what's going to be happening to average sales prices in future quarters.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut from JP Morgan.
First question I had is just on the -- more of like I guess a modeling question but related to Larry your comments around through the more recent land banking arrangements.
The interest expense amortization I think this year came in fiscal '15 around 2.9 % of revenue.
Given some of the perhaps changes in mix as it relates to the land banking but also obviously you have revenue growth anticipated.
Can you give us a sense of from a range or from a dollar absolute dollar perspective what you expect the interest expense amortization to come in for ‘16? I think right now the best assumption would be to just use what it's kind of been running at.
That varies depending on the mix of communities that are delivering and how long those homes take to build et cetera.
So the best we can do is look at our historical run rate for cost of sales interest.
So when you say what it's been running at are you talking about on a dollar basis or on a percent of revenue basis? More on a percentage basis.
Okay and then just on going back to the gross margins for a moment and I know you were kind of been talking about this in the last question or two but you know again just want to kind of make sure I'm understanding things at least from a conceptual standpoint.
You mentioned that you know in the upcoming year you're going to be selling some communities out of Natomas which you mentioned were higher above average margins.
You also -- you know obviously highlighted the land that's starting to come through that you're harvesting that was more developed land owned which is also typically a higher gross margin type product.
So with those types of positive mixes occurring what's offsetting that -- you're still looking at the midpoint of the range pre interest for it to be a similar gross margin.
Are there other areas of geography that are offsetting some of those benefits? Is it again the labor expense that continues to impact? Anything conceptually in terms of just you know you've highlighted those positive drivers but what's the offset to that? Some of its just mix Mike.
Again we do a very diligent detailed bottoms up budgeting process community by community and you know the mix of geographies the mix of communities and product types within a geography can impact those types of things as Ara mentioned as we do a little bit more land banking on a traditional basis that could have an impact.
So there is a whole bunch of things that goes into it.
We are encouraged with the market trends that we've seen recently you can see it in our orders.
We’re very pleased with what we've reported for the October quarter we're pleased how we've stacked up against our peers when we restacked for September quarter and we were pleased with the November orders that we reported as well and again if that trend kind of continues I think there might be the potential to also increase prices at a community level that could have some positive impact on margins and/or in construction cost and we gave you our best estimate of what those margins would be taking in [technical difficulty] current conditions into account.
Again you know we have seen construction costs increases as everyone has so we’ve tried to factor that in we have a different mix of land banking we're trying to factor that in just a -- and new land purchases.
So we're trying to factor all of those in and give you the best guidance we can at this early stage.
We appreciate that and those comments do make sense.
I guess just lastly and I'm glad you brought up the October-November order trends which were obviously very-very solid.
Any color around that in terms of and I apologize I don't have the slides right in front of me I'm presuming that you had a solid improvement in sales pace driving the overall order growth and so if I'm right on that assumption you know what do you feel that might be driving that are there sort of regions that are doing a little bit better than let's say your fourth -- your fiscal fourth quarter with [ph] already may be promotions or timing related to community opening any sense of those stronger trends in the last couple of months? Well first of all the stronger trends are really pretty dispersed geographically.
I can't say that we felt any particularly weak areas in terms of better sales pace.
It’s been feeling pretty good and we didn't have any special promotions going on recent.
So I’d attribute this is just a -- obviously we've got some new land positions and part of the growth as we mentioned was from growth in communities part of it was from an increased pace for community we've got some good locations got some new designs out there and the market's getting -- feels like it’s getting a little bit better than it was in the first half of 2015.
And Mike to specifically answer your question on contracts per community.
For each of the last five months through November they have been up year-over-year.
So that's just an encouraging sign that the overall market we're not in a fabulous time of the year for sales but it's just an encouraging sign that maybe the spring selling [ph] market is going to be good too.
Obviously we didn't factor any improvement in that into our projections but it just feels a little bit better the last five months or so.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from line of Alan Ratner from Zelman &amp; Associates.
I was hoping that -- sorry just one more question on the land bank here.
So my understanding is the 300 million that you've got committed on the land bank part of that is the land value that's on your books in terms of what you're committing and then part of that is future development cost of that land so some of that's going to be coming cash on the door and some of that's more in the form of cash savings I guess if you will.
So do you have the breakout of that in terms of the land that you're committing how much cash is actually going to be coming in a door in the first quarter? No I don't have that handy.
Should we assume that's likely roughly 50/50 in terms of that breakout? No it's not.
Much higher in terms of cash in the door? Yes.
Okay and then second question on the Houston improvement in November would you say that that's a market wide trend or do you feel like that's more a function of the repositioning of your communities more towards the lower price points and the non-energy corridor? Yes I mean that's not a repositioning that's been our strategy all along in terms of lower price points and lack of focus on the -- as much focus as somewhere appears on energy course so that’s not a shift.
So we didn't do anything different in November than what we did in August September and October.
So hopefully it's a market wide phenomena but to be perfectly candid I don't know the answer to that.
The answer seems to perceive what our peers are saying about the month of November.
I mean it's very fresh news but we were pleased to see that trend kind of reverse what we saw in the previous three months.
Great that's encouraging if I can just sneak in one more just on your typical cash flow seasonality you have to go back to the last couple of years.
Generally used up cash in the first half of the year you're building your backlog for the spring and then you generate some cash in the back half so should we expect that seasonality to be any different given your debt maturities are front half loaded are you going to kind of change your land spending to kind of more even flow that to ensure that you've got enough liquidities for the year to build up that? I think we're going to continue to bust [ph] the land parcels we may do more of it via land banking the new parcels not the stuff at home.
So that when you look at it will appear from a factual perspective I guess as well that we're using less cash but we're controlling the same amount of land is that makes sense to you? Got it that's help.
I appreciate that.
Thanks and good luck.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Susan Berliner from JPMorgan.
Just following up on that last question I guess with regard to the land spend for ’16 so Larry it's clearly coming down from ’15 for what you guys own any help there how we could model that? I am sorry it's coming down from what? From the land spend that you did in 15 you said you're going to be doing a little bit more from land banking so how we adjust our the model for land spend next year? I don't know how to give you great granularity on that one as Ara said we're not trying to grow inventories so that's one of the issues that when we still growing inventory quite a bit it's much more modest growth in order to hit our business plans and we gave you that in pretty granularity last quarterly call when we put out the illustrative scenarios.
So you can kind of look back at that and just see that that inventory growth was slowing significantly and then kind of leveling off.
But it's hard for me to tell you precisely what's going to happen in terms of land spending it'll be a little bit lower because we're doing more in land banking and that's about the only thing I can tell you right now.
Okay and then I guess with regards to guidance for ’16 I guess how are you thinking about the various markets specifically what do you thinking for Houston for ’16 because a couple of your peers have definitely noticed some cautious comments regarding ’16 and then if you can just go over your other markets what you were seeing and you know your expectations for ’16? I’ll tackle Houston and then I’ll turn it over to Ara to make some broader comments on the rest of our markets but I mean Houston for us has been really hanging in there.
We're not expecting Houston to grow in 2016 it might shrink a little bit and that's kind of what's factored into our numbers but everywhere else is going to grow significantly more so as a percentage of revenue as a percentage of earnings Houston is going to be a much smaller percent in ’16 as compare to ’15 for us.
And just overall as I mentioned earlier I think we're seeing pretty much across the board strength in our markets around the country it’s clearly a little hotter in the Bay Area and maybe Southeast Florida is particularly hot as well which is not a huge market for us but the Bay area has been a particularly large market.
I should mention we've got a number of new models and communities coming up in Southeast Florida so while it historically has not been a big area we anticipate it playing a much larger role for us.
But overall the market has been just very-very solid I guess maybe I'd add that we continue to see the DC market be just a little bit sluggish and my guess is that some of the sequestering is just having an impact on the job market there.
So we haven't seen the robust recovery there that we would have been expecting and that's within there in prior recoveries.
And if I could speak one other thing with the collateral coverage on the bonds Larry should we just assume it will be in your 10-Q this time? It's actually another slider [ph] in the appendix.
So it'll be all there they're all there.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of James Finnerty from Citi.
Just a couple of quick questions on the liquidity front historically you have the range of 170 million to 245 million and then your third quarter slides I guess you have modeled out that cash would somewhere north of 200 million by year end '16.
Should we assume that would be the case for '16? Well I think our target range remains unchanged.
So that 200 million was just within the range is how we modeled it when we put those numbers out last quarter.
Okay and then in terms of the profit guidance for the full year it's -- should we assume that you'll be profitable each quarter during the year or it's [multiple speakers].
We’ll not able to give the granularity quarter-by-quarters it’s a significantly improved year overall.
But we are not giving quarterly guidance at this time.
And then on the just on the non-recourse funding is there any limit to how much non-recourse funding you can do? No.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Petr Grishchenko from Imperial Capital.
My questions have already been answered but if you can just elaborate some more I guess on the mechanics of the GSO and DW transactions like what's the embedded cost of capital there? I'm sorry can you repeat it? Can you just elaborate on the GSO transactions what's the embedded cost of capital like? I'm not sure what's the cost of financing? We're under confidentiality agreement both with GSO and DW and frankly on any of our land banking so I can't share with you what that is.
Well any direction I mean at least you're raising capital to pay down your kind of finance maturities? Higher -- it's higher than the debt we paid off.
And we've again baked in those costs into our guidance.
It's still baked in.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Alex Barron from Housing Research.
Was hoping you could share with us your thoughts on it seems like the FED [ph] seems more ready to raise interest rates I guess potentially later this month.
So just kind of your approach to if that happens what do you expect to happen and -- to mortgage rates and your approach to -- if rates start to go higher -- I guess how you would approach that and whether you are expect to increase your exposure to the entry level as time goes by? First of all I think it's reasonable to assume any movement it's not going to be draconian with interest rates and it's frankly it's not clear how much the short term interest rate increase is going to affect long-term mortgage rates at the moment but notwithstanding that point obviously all of our communities offer a multitude of model types.
Currently in this very -- and at different price points currently in this environment customers are gravitating towards most of our larger models.
My -- and on top of that we're seeing quite a bit of options and upgrades I think it's reasonable to assume that as interest rates increase they might select a slightly smaller model than the largest model which are very popular right now.
We are pretty much gross margin neutral on most of our models.
So we make in terms of percentages a pretty similar and consistent gross margin on our smaller models and medium models and larger models.
So we don't think it will have a great impact.
We do make a little better gross margin not dramatically but a little better gross margin on our options and upgrades so perhaps there might be a slight impact if that’s disproportionately where the changes come from.
But overall at this time we’re not expecting huge changes and therefore I wouldn’t expect to see a huge shift in either of those factors.
I would also say that the FED rate is a very short-term rate and the mortgage rates fluctuate up and down multiple times during the day much less over a month or six months.
So I think the anticipated FED rate increase is probably already built into mortgage rates already.
And frankly if the FED continues to increase rates which is probably more along Alex where you’re comment maybe coming from I think that’s going to be an indication that the U.S.
economy is doing better and I think that will give consumers the confidence to go out and buy houses and so although it’s incrementally harder to qualify them.
If we had a lot more people wanting to buy house because that they’re doing better in their jobs and earning more and more confident in U.S.
economy I think that would really bode well for our industry and our company specifically.
Thank you.
And that concludes our question-and-answer session for today.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Ara Hovnanian for any closing comments.
Thank you.
Again we’re pleased to report some good results and based on our backlog and the sales base we certainly believe that our better results from this last quarter were just a precursor of better performance ahead and we look forward to sharing those with you in upcoming quarters.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
This concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you all for participating and have a nice day.
All parties may now disconnect.