Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2011 Huntsman Corporation Earnings Call.
My name is Modesta and I will be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Kurt Ogden Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Modesta and welcome to Huntsman's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
Joining us on the call today are Peter Huntsman President and CEO; and Kimo Esplin Executive Vice President and CFO.
This morning before the market opened we released our earnings for the first quarter 2011 via press release and posted it on our website huntsman.com.
We also posted a set of slides on our website which we intend to use on the call this morning in the discussion of our results.
During this call we may make statements about our projections or expectations for the future.
All such statements are forward-looking statements.
And while they reflect our current expectations they involve risks and uncertainties and are not guarantees of future performance.
You should review our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for more information regarding the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these projections or expectations.
We do not plan on publicly updating or revising any forward-looking statements during the quarter.
In addition we may also refer to non-GAAP financial measures.
You can find the reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in our earnings release posted on our website at huntsman.com.
As we refer to earnings we will be referring to adjusted EBITDA which is EBITDA adjusted to exclude the impact of discontinued operations restructuring impairment and plant-closing costs income and expense associated with the terminated merger and related litigation the sale of accounts receivables acquisition-related expenses unallocated foreign exchange gains and losses certain legal and contract settlement costs losses from early extinguishment of debt and losses and gains on disposition and acquisitions of businesses and assets.
We focus on adjusted EBITDA from a management standpoint as we believe it is the best measure of the underlying performance of operations.
And we have received feedback from many of you in the investment community that that is how you prefer to look at our business.
A reconciliation of EBITDA adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income or loss can be found in the appendix of our slides and in our first quarter earnings release.
Let's turn Slide 2.
In our earnings release this morning we reported first quarter 2011 revenue of $2 679 000 000 adjusted EBITDA of $302 million and adjusted earnings per share of $0.47 per diluted share.
Our adjusted EBITDA was $302 million in the first quarter 2011 compared to $123 million in the prior year and $219 million in the prior quarter.
The improvement in earnings compared to the prior year was primarily due to increased demand and higher contribution margins.
Earnings compared to the first quarter increased as a result of higher contribution margins as well as increased demand.
Peter and Kimo will provide greater insight into the improvements within our business.
I will now turn the call over to Peter Huntsman our President and CEO.
Thank you Kurt.
Let's turn to Side #3.
Adjusted EBITDA for Polyurethanes division in the first quarter 2010 was $114 million.
The supply/demand balance for the MDI industry has tightened significantly.
We estimate the MDI industry operated in the low 90s as a percent of nameplate capacity in the first quarter.
For the most part all idle industry capacity has been restarted.
Compared to the prior year our MDI sales volumes improved across almost all sectors.
In total our year-over-year MDI sales volumes increased 9%.
Improved demand was particularly strong in the insulation and automotive sectors.
Approximately 40% of our MDI revenue is generated by sales related to insulation applications.
We estimate that approximately 2/3 of our insulation-related sales are used in commercial applications and the other 1/3 are used in residential applications.
We have been successful in increasing our average selling price for MDI and related system solutions.
Average MDI product selling price increased 11% and 2% compared to the prior year and prior quarter respectively.
The sharp increase in benzene and other raw materials cost in the first quarter negatively affected our MDI margins on a sequential basis.
During the first quarter and early second quarter we announced price increases in all regions.
We started the second quarter with higher margins than we started the first quarter.
Demand for MTBE is very healthy particularly in Latin America where we sell most of our product.
The large spread between Brent which is a reasonable proxy for MTBE Gulf Coast prices and natural gas prices which drives certain MTBE raw material costs have the effect of improving our contribution margins.
EBITDA from PO/MTBE was very strong in the first quarter and well above historical averages.
These appear to be moderating some in the second quarter.
Let's turn to Slide #4.
In the first quarter our Performance Products division earned $115 million of adjusted EBITDA more than any other division in the quarter.
I am pleased with the strong results from the first quarter and encouraged by the incremental EBITDA expected from future capacity expansions in de-bottlenecking projects.
On April 2 we completed the acquisition of the Indian Chemicals business of Laffans Petrochemical Ltd.
The business manufactures amines and surfactants.
In February we announced our intent to move forward with the capacity expansion of our Jurong Island Singapore polyetheramine facility.
We continue to expand our presence within the Asia-Pacific region.
Over the next decade we expect demand for our amines to grow at least 10% per year in the Asia-Pacific region.
I would like to highlight the point that we not are expanding our revenue footprint but these businesses are very profitable with EBITDA margins in the mid-teens.
Approximately 2/3 of our production capacity in this division is North America.
Our Port Neches Texas facility experience mechanical shutdowns in the first quarter related to freezing weather that resulted in lower EBITDA of approximately $7 million.
This complex is integrated from Ethane gas all the way through to ethylene oxide surfactants and amines.
As a result of the North American natural gas advantage we saw strong integrated margins in our intermediate chemicals in the first quarter that more than offset the negative impacts of the temporary shutdown.
Part of our Port Neches Texas facility will undergo scheduled maintenance in the second quarter.
The impact to EBITDA is expected to be $8 million to $10 million.
Turning to Slide #5.
Adjusted EBITDA in our Advanced Materials division was $39 million in the first quarter.
This division is comprised of Formulated Systems and Specialty Components businesses which represent approximately 90% of our earnings.
The other 10% comes from our based epoxy resin which has lower margin and more commoditized.
Compared to the prior year volumes improved 17% within Formulated Systems and Specialty Components primarily as a result of improved demand for wind energy products used in windmill blades and within industrial paints and powder coatings.
Average selling prices increased in Specialty Components whereas Formulation System pricing is more static and generally moves only 2 to 3 times a year.
We expect higher selling prices for our Formulation Systems as we progress through the year.
Earnings in our Based Resin business improved as a result of increased average selling price.
However our volumes in the Americas decreased due to raw material constraints from one of Bisphenol A suppliers.
The bottom-line impact was minimal and we expect these supply limitations to be resolved in May.
Turning to Slide #6.
Our Textile Effects division reported an adjusted EBITDA loss of $6 million for the first quarter.
In 2010 we exited certain high-volume low margin commodity products.
Excluding the impact of this bottom slicing our year-over-year sales volumes were flat.
Although there were certain bright spots for demand such as automotive and synthetics overall demand could well be characterized as muted.
There has been a lot of the press regarding the record pricing of cotton which has increased approximately 200% over the past year.
This has had an impact on our customers with the textile mills as they have tried to pass these costs on to the retailers.
In turn for the first time in a decade we are now seeing apparel retailers raising prices in an attempt to pass these costs onto consumers.
Approximately 50% of our fixed costs are denominated in Swiss francs.
The foreign currency impact of a stronger Swiss franc against the U.S.
dollar on our fixed cost had an effect of decreasing our EBITDA by approximately $6 million compared to the prior year.
Our priority remains focused on expanding our sales and relocating our costs closer to our end-use markets.
On Slide #7.
Our Pigments division earned $87 million of adjusted EBITDA for the first quarter.
The supply/demand balance within the TiO2 industry remains very tight and is expected to continue.
We believe industry producer inventory levels are less than 40 days which is unusually low for this time of year when we enter the traditional coating seasons for Europe and North America.
We are operating our facilities at full capacity.
Do not expect a seasonal increase in sales volumes during the second quarter.
Although we are operating at high production rates we are staying on top of the necessary maintenance of our assets.
To this end we will bring our Calais France facility down for scheduled maintenance during the second quarter.
We expect the financial impact on EBITDA to be minimal.
We continue to raise prices in an effort to offset increases in raw material and energy costs.
Compared to the prior year our average selling price increased 23% and 7% compared to the fourth quarter.
We've announced further price increases in April to offset the additional raw material and energy costs.
There's been a lot of attention around ore supply.
Ore costs along with other raw material costs are increasing and supply demand is tight.
That said we have successfully procured adequate supply for our needs.
Before sharing some concluding thoughts I'd like to turn a few minutes over to Kimo Esplin our Chief Financial Officer.
Thanks Peter.
Let's turn to Slide 8.
In the first quarter of 2011 our adjusted EBITDA increased to $302 million from $123 million in the prior year.
The primary reason for the year-over-year increase was an increase in general demand and corresponding higher sales volume when you exclude the impact of the turnaround at our Port Neches Texas facility in the first quarter of 2010.
This chart shows that volumes accounted for $120 million of the improvement in earnings.
Margins also improved as increased average selling price is more than compensated for the increase in raw material costs.
Compared to the fourth quarter of 2010 our first quarter adjusted EBITDA increased from $219 million to $302 million.
The primary reason for the sequential increase was an improvement in margins as increased average selling prices more than compensated for the headwind of increased raw material costs.
We saw an improvement in demand as sales volumes increased 5%.
Our adjusted EBITDA for the 12 months exceeds $1 billion despite Polyurethanes profitability well below normalized levels which is just starting to gain traction with operating rates in excess of 90%.
Turning to Slide 9.
Our year-over-year sales revenue for the first quarter increased 28% as a result of improved demand and higher average selling prices.
Improvements in revenue were most notable in our “rest of the world” category which makes up 17% of our total sales and improved 50%.
This category includes emerging markets such as Central and South America and the Middle East.
In Europe and North America our largest markets each improved 30% and 23% respectively.
Asian markets continue to grow nicely as revenues improved 18%.
Our largest divisions Polyurethanes Performance Products and Pigments which account for approximately 80% of our revenue recorded revenue increases of 36% 31% and 35% respectively.
Within our Polyurethanes division the growth rate for PO/MTBE is not meaningful as because of our turnaround in Q1 2010.
However the urethanes growth rate is helpful as we saw strong improvement.
In total our sales volume improved 23% and our average selling price improved by 10% in terms of local currency.
We saw similar trends in quarter-over-quarter comparisons.
Strong regional growth as a result of higher average selling prices which increased 7% and increased sales volumes of 5%.
Turning to Slide 10.
At the end of the quarter we had approximately $1.2 billion of cash and unused borrowing capacity.
During the first quarter we invested $245 million in cash to increase our primary working capital or 12% roughly consistent with the increase in sales during the same period.
As volumes and prices have improved along with the cost of underlying raw materials so has our working capital.
Notwithstanding this and many of our businesses inventory relative to expected sales are at historically low levels.
We continue to take advantage of attractive debt markets in an effort to improve our debt maturity profile.
In March we amended our credit agreement and extended $650 million of our Term Loan B from April 2014 to April 2017.
In April we amended and extended our accounts receivable securitization programs to April 2014.
Debt reduction is a priority for management and for our board.
In January of 2011 we completed an early redemption of $100 million of our 7 3/8% senior subordinated notes due 2015 with available cash.
We expect to further delever the balance sheet for future free cash flow.
During the first quarter of 2011 we spent $60 million on capital expenditures.
In 2011 we expect to spend approximately $350 million on capital expenditures.
I'll now turn the call back over to Peter for concluding remarks.
Thank you Kimo.
As we conclude a very positive first quarter we continue to see the positive impact of our geographic and product diversity.
At a time when crude oil appears to be moving toward historical highs we are benefiting by having nearly 50% of our raw material purchases North American-based.
Our integrated natural gas-based manufacturing will continue to allow us to access competitive North American feedstocks.
With our acquisitions and capital projects in Singapore Thailand China India Saudi Arabia we are uniquely positioned to further take advantage of fast-growing Asian markets.
As I look at the industry longer term I continue to express caution regarding the macroeconomic condition of high oil prices stubbornly high unemployment rates and the fragility of the U.S.
and European economic recoveries.
However we continue to express a high degree of confidence about our company's capacity utilization rates.
These high operating rates and strong demand have allowed us to pass on rising raw material costs to our customers.
We also believe that the strength of our customers and their end-use markets will allow us to take advantage of improving market conditions as we continue to see global economic growth.
As I stated earlier Hunstman had a great first quarter and I believe that we have even better times ahead of us.
With that I'll turn the call back to Kurt.
Thank you Peter.
Modesta that concludes our prepared remarks.
Would you explain the procedure for Q&amp;A and then open the line for questions? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Laurence Alexander with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> I guess 2 quick questions.
First are you seeing any end markets where you're seeing signs -- with beginning signs of demand destruction because of the higher prices to pass through input costs? I personally Laurence off the top of my ahead I cannot think of any.
I mean I see some statistics that tell me some trends about consumer confidence.
But I have not on a macro basis as I look across our businesses and even the largest segments within each of our divisions -- I'm looking for 2 areas here.
Perhaps I'm going to expand just a little bit on your question.
Am I seeing areas of products replacement where because of the high price of oil other products are moving in to replace that? I'm not seeing that if any materiality taking place and -- or the higher prices driving end-use consumers away and so forth.
We are seeing some product substitutions that are taking place something such as with the record-high price of cotton and textile effects.
You see demand for polyester is rising because of the high cost of cotton.
But again I think that we're uniquely positioned to be able to take advantage because of our customer mix and product mix to be able to take advantage on either one of those.
But to answer your question no.
I'm not seeing any material that is material at this time that -- as far as demand destruction or even product substitution is taking place.
Inc.</strong> And how would you characterize your M&amp;A pipeline and in particular the valuations that companies are asking for in negotiations? I'll let Kimo comment on that.
But again I would say that while we see transactions that are out there I think that from a macro sense that Kimo mentioned in his comments we remain very committed to making sure that we maintain a strong balance sheet and focus on debt paydown.
We also as you've seen over the course of the last year or so have had a number of smaller acquisitions of $10 million $20 million.
We believe these are a couple of criteria that these are easily for us to -- easy for us integrate within our existing business that they are a downstream add-on where we're able to take our MDI or our amines products or what have you and further move that down and to further formulate it or component products value-added components.
And they usually in regions of the world where we are seeing fast-growing developing markets in India and areas that we're looking at today in South America and throughout Asia and so forth.
Yes Laurence as Peter said we are really going to be interested in more bolt-on kind of acquisitions nothing that would change the correct credit profile of the business.
So we're not all -- we're not very active in the M&amp;A market.
So I don't know what would be the best source to give you that color.
Your next question today comes from the line of Bob Koort with Goldman Sachs.
Peter I guess you guys have what I characterize as a very unique window on Asia given your presence there.
And it seems like of all the regions maybe that one saw the -- some decelerating growth.
So could you comment a little bit about what the tightening policies have done to the business activity there and how you see that progressing through the year? I would just say that we continue to see very robust growth taking place in Asia.
I think that it is fair to say as we've said on past calls Bob that across the board as we look at our Asian capacities I'm talking about our amines capacity our polyurethanes capacity our TiO2 capacity we essentially are sold out in Asia.
So the growth that we're seeing in those markets are exports that are coming in from Europe and North America.
As we see the European and the North American markets continue to strengthen we will make that decision to cut exports to Asia and to supply the local markets where we have an opportunity to make more money.
That is not to say that we're pulling out of the Asian markets.
It's not to say also that we are not continuously upgrading our customer base with the product that we have available.
But I'd be lying to you if I told you that we've got an extra 20% 30% of vital capacity sitting around in Asia and we're going to continue to grow the business at strong double-digit growth rates in Asia because we've got all this excess capacity.
We are on the process of adding capacity in amines in Singapore.
We are continuously looking to de-bottleneck our MDI capacity.
We're expanding our textile manufacturing capacity throughout Asia.
But having said all that Bob our single largest source of product going to Asia today aside from the products we produce in Asia it is coming from the U.S.
and Europe and gradually -- again if both markets strengthen that product will probably be staying in those markets where we can make more money.
Generally as it relates to sort of our insight into local demand it continues strong.
We're not seeing cracks anywhere in the Chinese demand profile.
And you mentioned adding some capacity.
Could you talk a little about MDI? It appears maybe you and your partners there are going on there building your own plants as opposed to do something together.
Is that now a pretty decided outcome or is there still scope for maybe doing a joint venture for your next round of MDI large-scale capacity there? Well BSF is definitely -- they publicly have announced they are moving forward into Yongxing.
And we continue to look at various options.
But our priority right now in China and MDI is the continuation of our expansion of our Caojing facility.
And we fully believe that we continue be on track to expand that facility and that is our priority with or without a partner there.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeff Zekauskas with JPMorgan.
What was cash flow from operations in the quarter? Give me a second there.
We had negative $124 million of net cash flow from operations.
Excuse me let me just see if -- I'm looking at my Q and I know you haven't followed it yet.
No I've got negative $74 million excuse me.
And that what that is Jeff $302 million of EBITDA and then CapEx of $60 million cash interest of $66 million cash taxes of $5 million and changes in working capital of $245 million getting me to a use of cash of $74 million.
So the -- so what we would do -- if your CapEx was $60 million -- the CapEx usually isn't included from cash flow from operations so you're giving a -- like a net use of cash for the entire quarter is that right? Well I'm sorry.
Yes probably.
That's how we define it.
I'm sure the market may look at it differently.
So the cash flow from operation then was really negative $14 million is that correct? If that's how you define it yes.
All right.
Secondly in terms of the Polyurethanes business.
If you excluded the strength in MTBE from the fourth quarter to the first quarter would EBITDA have grown sequentially in polyurethanes? Yes.
But let me give you a sense for PO/MTBE.
I think listed C factors year-over-year we're probably up $0.20 a gallon and we have roughly 215 million gallons of capacity.
So call it yes normal -- EBITDA was higher but on a quarterly basis what is that? $50 million over 4 quarters kind of $15-ish million better than what you would have experienced last year if we hadn't had the turnaround.
Just to give you the sense for the magnitude of the MTBE piece.
Okay.
In Performance Products I always forget whether you're tolling ethylene glycol or exactly what status that has.
Was profitability in ethylene glycol very important in the growth in MTBE and Performance Products? And how do you see that market through the course of the year? So MTBE is in the Polyurethanes business.
Yes.
Right.
I was switching over to Performance Products.
Forgive me if I misspoke.
No that's fine.
And glycols was up year-over-year as you would expect but it's not that meaningful.
It's less than 10% of our Performance Products business.
And that's on the high end.
It's usually closer to 5% of the profitability of that business.
We would say longer term that throughout the year that ethylene glycol should remain fairly tight.
Look at the demand that is taking place in the polyester chain.
And as we look at the operating capacity utilization particularly in the Middle East that will remain tight at least for the next couple of quarters here.
So I think that with the low-cost Ethane advantage that we have -- I'm speaking about Huntsman not the industry that Huntsman has with our oxide production that will -- it continue to advantage our position in ethylene glycol.
Yes I think it's going to be a pretty good year for that product.
Okay.
And then lastly you had really nice sequential growth in EBITDA in Advanced Materials.
And I was wondering how you accomplish that because I mean there was some revenue growth sequentially but the profit growth was really pretty remarkable.
How did that work? I think it's fair to say that in the fourth quarter that we had quite a few one-off charges that we're taken during that time period.
And we saw quite a bit of growth and some traction that took place margin improvement that took place in our Formulated Systems of our advanced materials.
But we did have some onetime charges that affected us in the fourth quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of P.J.
Juvekar with Citigroup.
This is Eric Petrie in for P.J.
I have quick question in TiO2.
If ore costs climbed higher do you think prices can be passed on to your customers? I believe that with the condition of the markets that we see today and with the ore costs that I see on the horizon of the next few quarters I believe the simple answer is yes.
That may not be in situ where it's instantaneous.
But I believe that within a quarter's time period the rising cost of ore and energy -- remember that ore only makes up about 50% of the cost that we have of producing TiO2.
So when we talk about ore and energy and other related costs I believe that the market is such that we will be able to pass on those price increases to our customers.
Okay.
And then my second question is what is your TiO2 demand outlook in Europe where you have a strong presence? I believe that in Europe we're going to see continuous -- a continued gradual recovery.
And again as you look at the 2 largest end-use applications you'd be looking at automotive and you'd be looking at housing and construction.
The automotive markets in Europe particularly on the high end are surprisingly robust and continue to be that way.
And I think that it will be that way for a couple of quarters here.
As we look at Polyurethanes and then TiO2 those 2 segments in particular are benefiting from a strong European automotive sector.
If we look at the housing and commercial real estate in Europe it remains quite sluggish.
It has been for some years but the remodeling and the painting sales and coating sales in Europe actually are quite decent.
[indiscernible] future.
Your next question comes from the line of Frank Mitsch with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Peter what are the common themes in going through your 5 segments in terms of an outlook? I was talking about higher raw material costs.
But I also heard you talk about various price increases that you've been implementing some as early as April 1.
So I was just curious if you look at your -- the company as a whole in terms of margins would April margins be higher flat or lower versus the Q1 average? I think that across the board Frank it's going to be not categorically in all divisions.
Right it’s going to be higher.
Well I don't think that I -- what I see in April today and the traction we're getting and prices that we've received in April I think on average it's going to be a bit higher.
Terrific.
And I noted that the year-over-year volumes contributed to most of the increase sequentially.
Margins contributed to most of the increase.
How are you -- where were operating company -- I think you said that MDI operating rates were in the low 90s.
For the company overall where were operating rates in Q1 roughly? And how did April shake out in terms of operating rates? Well as we look at Q1 and I'll just quickly go by kind of division-by-division as we look at the TiO2 we're obviously sold out.
Typically at this time of the year and just going from first quarter to second quarter second quarter is your strong year for paint production and construction in TiO2.
And so you are looking at first quarter typically you're getting into a stronger second quarter in sales.
But I that in TiO2 it's going to continue to be -- we're instantly going to be it sold out.
Second quarter in MDI we continue to see strong growth globally.
And I see no reason why from what I've seen today why MDI should not be in Polyurethanes in general.
Across the board it should not be stronger in the second quarter than the first quarter and going up around the world.
Amines and surfactants again I see that volume again gradually increasing in the second quarter.
I see no reason why that should be diminishing.
In Textile Effects we move into this time of year typically we start seeing wool processing coming in this time of year.
And I would hope that there is some relief in cotton prices as people have moved from cotton into polyester and you see cotton prices starting to come down.
I think that should be a positive sign.
I am probably forgetting one of the -- in Advanced Materials I think again in Advanced Materials and when the aerospace construction so forth again I -- we'd see that it would be gradually improving in the second quarter again so...
Frank in 2 of our 5 divisions we don't even track utilization rates.
So Textile Effects and Advanced Materials really are not utilization rate kind of businesses.
And in half of our Performance Products businesses really we don't look at the utilization rates.
But in the capital intensive sort of utilization rate-sensitive businesses as I think we said in MDI we're in the low-90% utilization rates as an industry.
And I think that is probably a good number for us.
Also in PO/MTBE that business runs full out.
It's 100% utilization rate business.
When you look at Pigments I think Peter said we're full out.
So in the utilization rate-sensitive business pretty tight.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Cash with UBS.
I just wanted to chat a little bit about urethanes and Textile Effects.
So going back to product shortages in urethanes first now you guys are spending substantial money on some front-end engineering work on the China plant but no approval yet by the government.
So I'm just curious if you could lay out for us what's going on with the delay in the approval process? When you might see approval there? Well I think that as we look at an approval in Asia I do believe that it is coming.
Andy I wish had more control over the Chinese regulatory process.
And at this time I don't even want to speculate other than to say that I am confident that one way or another that we will see more MDI capacity from Huntsman coming into the Chinese market as soon as possible.
Is it possible that there is some staging going on? Maybe the government is trying to stage how much new capacity comes on when.
Is that part of the equation? I wouldn't want to speculate one way or the other.
The Chinese are very large buyers of MDI.
It's a very important component on their infrastructure and on their energy conservation program.
And as you look right now over the course of the next -- given the fact that it takes 3-plus years to engineer procure the equipment build a plant start up the plant bring full capacity into the industry it takes that much time to bring a plant in the industry.
China is going to be very short on MDI 2 3 years down the road.
They're getting short today.
Its' going to get a lot worse before it gets better.
So I struggle to see that there is a concerted effort within the government to hold back MDI capacity being built but again I'm just speculating.
Okay.
Just a quick one on urethane follow-up.
I think there's in EUR 100 to EUR 200 per metric ton price discussions for the second quarter in Europe.
You care to put any odds on that going through? Yes.
I think that we feel very confident that the vast majority of that if not all that was going through.
Okay.
The other question about textile.
If I recall correctly I think the goal was maybe 15% kind of EBITDA margin down the road.
And I think you've cut $100 million in cost cutting about 1/3 of the workforce so forth and so on.
So I was just curious when might we expect to see that business starting to turnaround? I know you mentioned the wool season.
I would expect big margin improvement.
Our expectations for that business continue to be high Andy.
I think that when we talked in the past we have always assumed and I will continue to assume that we will return to the sort of prerecession demand.
And that's the key here that we get back to the prerecession demand of consumer textiles and textile consumption.
And when that happens I believe that you will see a 10% to 15% EBITDA to sales sort of a margin business.
I've been totally open here.
I would have thought that we would have add stronger textile demand than we have today.
I'm talking as an industry not Huntsman.
Because I don't think that Huntsman's doing any worse.
I think we're probably doing better than the average in the textile industry.
But I think that as you look at the impact over the last quarter or 2 of higher retail prices being pushed through and higher cotton prices and the changes that have taken now I believe that there probably has been a few quarters delay in what we were hoping would be a quicker recovery on the consumer side for textiles.
And let's not minimize the impact of North American housing in this business.
Often we think about apparel but we also think about carpets and draperies and towels and sheets which really follow housing starts.
And that business continues to be very very difficult.
Yes.
You just have to look at the furniture stocks and you could see that.
So now good luck with that and good luck with all those product shortages out there.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Hoffman with RBC Capital Markets.
I wonder Peter if you could talk a little bit about the Performance Products business the Indian acquisition and your Singapore expansion.
Just want to get a sense of what incrementally that might add to sort of top line growth at this point? I think on top line growth in India we announced that there's about $100 million of revenues that should be coming from that.
And with the Singapore Polyurethane amines as we look at that that will be about 40 000 tons of capacity coming on and that will probably take a year a year and a half for that product to be sold out.
And so there's probably an incremental $100 million there as well.
And I believe that the Polyurethane and amines will probably end up seeing mid-upper teens sort of EBITDA to sales.
And with the Indian market that's a real scattering of end-use applications from amines to surfactants.
And we're bringing products in from overseas to blend with that.
But on average we should expect the surfactants to be in the high-single digits the amines to be in the low-double digits probably at 10% EBITDA sort of an average there in India.
Terrific.
And then my second question is just back to the MDI business.
So it was sort of outside the Chinese expansion given the fact that you're operating -- you're currently in sort of low-90% range.
Can you just talk about -- I mean it feels like the business is relatively back to a steady state.
Do you wait for further a more geographic economic growth here or -- are the things you can do to get a higher growth rate out of that business so over the next year or so? I'm quite satisfied with the growth rate of MDI.
I think for the last 2 years we've seen growth not just in Asia but on a global basis of around 8% growth and perhaps closer to 9% growth.
And so as we look at that on a global basis I think the opportunity for MDI as far as I see is not necessarily the volume growth.
So that's important to us.
It's the margin expansion.
And I would remind you that in 2005 when we saw 100% capacity utilization rate in this industry if you were to take those sort of EBITDA margins and put them on a per-ton basis today 6 years later we have our Chinese facility now is completed and we further de-bottlenecked and brought capacity expansions and efficiencies into our other 2 MDI facilities which you're looking at 2005 margins today of somewhere between $800 million to $1 billion EBITDA just coming out of the Polyurethanes division.
So again volume is important to us but where we need to be focused and where we are focused over the next 2 to 3 years here is margin expansion and being able to grapple with historical high benzene prices and getting not just catching up to those which I feel we've done in the first going into the second quarter but further expanding margins to capture where we were a few years ago in MDI.
Bill and let me remind you that over 1/2 of our MDI is consumed in systems.
And so there's a lot of innovation going on in this business.
It's just not MDI component sales and waiting for utilization rates to strengthen.
There is a lot of value added product that's going on out there that we're adding value to these molecules.
And Kimo can you grow that -- I mean like -- is there a growth rate on that that percent your sending in new Systems at this point in time that you want to talk about? Well it's going about the same as the industry generally.
But it's more value added higher margins much more stable kind of business.
And it's a real focus of our systems houses that are scattered throughout the world.
We should know I mean this is not just in Polyurethanes.
If you look at amines I think that over the last 2 to 3 years we have tried to change this business the most.
It's not necessarily adding more tonnage of capacity but how do you take MDI how do you take basic amines and surfactants? How do you take both liquid resins and formulate those further downstream? And I hope that this becomes -- this has been apparent to people following our company is to how do you add value to the molecule further downstream? How do we diversify and differentiate ourselves from the competition? I don't want to be competing on MDI molecules with 6 or 7 other competitors out there.
I'd like to be producing a product that only 1 or 2 people in the world can produce now where you have real leverage in specifications in pricing and product formulation and technology and that really as we look at Huntsman over the next couple of years that needs to be our uniqueness.
It's what we can bring technology into our innovation and creativity and to fast-growing markets and throughout Asia and also in mature markets in the U.S.
and Europe.
Terrific.
It's certainly given you a lot of momentum at this point.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Chandra with DW Investment Management.
I was just wondering if you could look in your pigments it seems that you guys are in a real sweet spot.
Your selling price is going up.
You're sold out but your ore costs are going up.
And you guys have said that your raw materials more than offset that.
Would you expect to see margin improvement expansion over the next coming -- several coming quarters? And could you comment on what your thoughts are on the duration of the cycle? This is Kimo.
Let me just take up margin sequentially and remind you of some things that Peter mentioned in his remarks.
We saw ore prices really rise at the beginning of the year say January 1.
And with our inventory average costing system you really won't see those ore costs come through until the second quarter.
And so we really didn't really see that in the P&amp;L if you will.
Having said that prices have risen as well.
So you will not see I don't believe sequentially all of the price increases that are effective the first of the second quarter flow through to the bottom line.
You're still going to see some noise of price increases from earlier on in the year on the P&amp;L.
And I would just say as far as the duration of the cycle I'm quite bullish as far as the entire TiO2 industry for the long term largely because of 3 issues here.
Number one is that there's still the one of the largest consumers around the world of TiO2 product obviously paint is U.S.
North American housing construction.
And that continues to languish.
We really have not moved much off the floor.
And that's not going to continue forever.
I mean there's going to continue to be an improvement on the coming years in the housing market and the automotive markets in North America.
So I look at the overall demand and it does not appear globally that we are operating anywhere close to peak sort of consumption.
I don't see a bubble in housing or automotive or the large consumers of TiO2s that are out there right now.
Secondly as I look at TiO2 capacity if Huntsman right now could wave a wand and all of a sudden we could build a 150 000 metric ton facility that could come on tomorrow is there a sufficient ore supply in the industry today to supply that facility? If I were to build say that about ethylene if I were to say that about Polypropylene if I were to say that about most chemicals yes.
There's plenty of raw materials.
I'm not sure that there is enough ore out there to supply right now today a world-scale facility that could come onto the market.
So if I look at the second area if I look the ore supply I believe that there is sufficient ore to satisfy the needs of the industry today.
And I believe that Huntsman is well situated in the coming years and the longer-term contracts that we have.
But nevertheless it's going to take years for the ore situation to rightly balance itself.
Again it takes longer time for you to go out and mine the ore process the ore and bring on new ore capacity then it does bring on TiO2 capacity.
That's the second.
The third area I would just say is around TiO2 capacity itself.
And yes there are incremental expansions that are taking place.
Anybody that have a simple expansion project probably has already done it by now or has announced it by now.
And so as you look at the grassroots greenfield facilities that could be built I don't -- I've not heard of any facilities world-scale grassroots facility.
As a matter of fact the last grassroots greenfield facility I believe was probably either our facility in Lake Charles Louisiana or the ICI facility in TK Malaysia.
And as you look at those that was nearly going on 17 18 years ago.
So as I look at the TiO2 capacity there are incremental expansions that are coming on.
I don't see any work-scale capacities coming on and those are years away.
It's going to be some time till the new ore capacity might come into the market de facto.
And I think that the TiO2 demand is going to continue to be – it’s not going to go through the roof but it's going to continue to grow quarter-on-quarter year-on-year and I think it's going to be a nice steady expansion which is ideally what we want.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Straka [ph] with  [indiscernible].
I'm sorry it's Long Acher [ph].
Real quickly on TiO2 these facilities for the last let's call it 5 10 years barely ran at 90% maybe they ran below 90% -- it was below 90%.
Now within the last year or so you shut down capacity these facilities are running at close to 100% as you said.
Can you just comment on the preparation or what you think the possibility of outages might be and price spikes that you might benefit from? Just because from what I understand the TiO2 process is very intense on the facility.
The facilities are very -- the process is highly corrosive let's say.
And the plants run very hard and so there's a possibility of outages.
Could you just talk a little bit about that? Yes.
Most of these -- most TiO2 plant are a single maybe a dual-line facility.
So when you have an operating upset within the facility the entire facility usually comes down.
The entire facility will feel the impact.
This isn't a -- something like if I we're thinking of our amines facilities where you have multiple terrains and one terrain can go down or one reactor can go down you continue to operate other reactors.
Typically I have 1 or 2 kilns in the TiO2 plant or 1 or 2 reactors and that's it.
I would just say that I'm not going to speculate on which plants or what impact the plant coming down but the average age in this industry of TiO2 facilities has got to be counted in the decades not years.
And as you look at that you're at that point where you are putting more and more money and time into maintenance typically T&amp;Is or scheduled maintenance turnarounds are -- occur more often will take longer.
And you're pressing up against the metallurgy and you're pressing up the wear rates of pieces equipment frankly that you've never operated for this amount of time.
So that's not to say that these facilities are all susceptible to falling apart.
So that is a byproduct of our facilities that are at the age of the TiO2 facilities.
Do you have a view at all if one facility around the globe went down because of -- for let's call it 3 months how that might impact pricing of TiO2 into the marketplace? That would depend on the size of the facility in question.
But yes it would have an impact.
When you're operating in the high-90s mid-90% capacity utilization which is where I believe we are.
I don't believe that the TiO2 plant can run necessarily at 100% nameplate capacity.
You don't -- it's just not designed it's just not susceptible to what you see in other chemical processes.
So one facility 40 000- 50 000-ton facility coming down for a couple months and that's not an unrealistic time frame that you pointed out.
You will see probably a force majeure sort of an environment that would about through pricing and supply.
And is there one major facility that was down as a result of the Japanese earthquake is that correct? Yes.
It was pretty small.
I think it was 60 000 tons.
Your final question today comes from the line of Gregg Goodnight with UBS.
A question on your methane dioxide capacity just to do a spot check here.
I believe you have about 550 000 tons of global capacity.
Is that correct? Right.
Okay.
And one of your competitors reported yesterday and they were successfully able to operate over 100% rates.
Could you sort of benchmark where you think your operating rates are going to be this year? And then comment on any possible incremental expansions at any of your facilities you might be able to execute fairly quickly.
Gregg nameplate capacity is kind of a funny thing in this industry because generally nobody operates above nameplate because these plants usually require turnarounds through a year.
And on an average they will run at sort of maximum 96% 97% utilization rates.
So when we say 550 that truly is a nameplate capacity and you would expect again use that 95% rate.
We'll be full out at 95% of that.
And any de-bottlenecks you might be able to pull off in the near term? There's real small 1% kind of opportunities over the next 18 to 24 months.
And we think that's typical in the industry but nothing significant.
Okay.
Actually and could you update us on your German molecan [ph] hydride expansion? It was supposed to start up in the first half of this year.
How is that coming? And will it be sold out in the near-term? That facility is coming online and I'm not sure that it will be filled out as it comes online.
But we believe that it will be one of the most competitive facilities globally and then we'll be moving a lot of volume to that facility and taking advantage of that lower cost.
We think that will be consolidated beginning the second quarter for financial purposes.
And we think the EBITDA impact of that will be around $20 million.
Okay.
Last question Kimo you're showing on the Page 4 of your release a sales mix of negative 17% in Polyurethanes.
Can you just qualitatively describe what that mix is? It's just the mix between MDI urethanes at PO/MTBE which is a lower-valued product suggesting that we had higher sales of PO/MTBE in the quarter but that was a mix issue as opposed to a price.
Both MTBE PO and MDI prices rose but we sold more PO/MTBE.
Okay got it.
I should have been able to figure that out.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q2 2011 Huntsman Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Lara and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Kurt Ogden.
Please proceed.
Thank you Lara and good morning everyone.
I am Kurt Ogden Huntsman Corporation's Vice President of Investor Relations.
Welcome to Huntsman's second quarter 2011 earnings call.
Joining us on the call today are Jon Huntsman Executive Chairman and Founder; Peter Huntsman President and CEO; and Kimo Esplin Executive Vice President and CFO.
This morning before the market opened we released our earnings for the second quarter 2011 via press release and posted it on our website huntsman.com.
We also posted a set of slides on our website which we intend to use on the call this morning in the discussion of our results.
During this call we may make statements about our projections or expectations for the future.
All such statements are forward-looking statements.
And while they reflect our current expectations they involve risks and uncertainties and are not guarantees of future performance.
You should review our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for more information regarding the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these projections or expectations.
We do not plan on publicly updating or revising any forward-looking statements during the quarter.
In addition we may also refer to non-GAAP financial measures.
You can find the reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in our earnings release posted on our website at huntsman.com.
As we refer to earnings we will be referring to adjusted EBITDA which is EBITDA adjusted to exclude the impact of discontinued operations restructuring impairment and plant-closing costs income and expense associated with the terminated merger and related litigation acquisition-related expenses unallocated foreign exchange gains and losses certain legal and contract settlement costs losses from early extinguishment of debt gain on consolidation of variable interest entities and losses and gains on disposition and acquisitions of businesses and assets.
We focus on adjusted EBITDA from a management standpoint as we believe it is the best measure of the underlying performance of operations.
And we have received feedback from many of you in the investment community that this is how you prefer to look at our business.
A reconciliation of EBITDA adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income or loss can be found in the appendix of our slides and in our second quarter earnings release.
Let's turn to Slide  2.
In our earnings release this morning we reported second quarter 2011 revenue of $2 934 000 000 adjusted EBITDA of $318 million and adjusted earnings per share of $0.48 per diluted share.
Our adjusted EBITDA was $318 million in the second quarter 2011 compared to $257 million in the prior year an increase of 24%.
Compared to the prior quarter of $302 million our adjusted EBITDA increased 5%.
The improvement in earnings compared to the prior year and prior quarter was primarily due to improved contribution margins.
Peter and Kimo will provide greater insight into the improvement along with other trends within our business.
I will now turn the call over to Peter Huntsman our President and CEO.
Thank you Kurt.
Good morning everyone and thank you for taking the time to join us.
Let's turn to Slide #3 talk about our Polyurethanes division.
Adjusted EBITDA for our Polyurethanes division in the second quarter 2010 was $143 million.
The substantial increase from the prior year and prior quarter which was $70 million and $114 million respectively.
During the second quarter we successfully increased our average selling price per MDI and related system solution.
Average MDI product selling price increased 20% and 9% compared to the prior year and prior quarter respectively.
We've seen general inflationary pressure on our raw material cost.
Benzene cost increased approximately 20% compared to the prior year.
As a result of our strong pricing initiatives we were able to improve our earnings in the second quarter and recapture margin previously eroded due to raw material pressures.
In total we're seeing growth in our MDI sales volume most notably during the second quarter.
Demand was particularly strong in the insulation automotive and composite wood sectors.
Sales related to insulation applications are our largest end market.
We estimate that approximately 2/3 of our insulation-related sales are used in commercial applications and the other 1/3 is used in residential applications.
The supply-demand balance for the MDI industry has improved.
We estimate that the MDI industry operated in the low 90% as a percent of nameplate capacity in the second quarter.
Propylene oxide and its coproduct MTBE performed very well this quarter with EBITDA above historical averages.
Combined with the spike in energy prices resulting from Middle East turmoil the largest spread between Brent crude which has an impact on MTBE pricing and WTI crude which derives certain MTBE raw material cost has had the effect of improving our margin.
Margins have moderated from the peak we saw in the quarter but remained above historical averages.
Let's turn to the fourth slide here.
In the second quarter our Performance Products division earned $102 million of adjusted EBITDA.
Our average selling price increased 23% and 10% compared to the prior quarter -- excuse me compared to the prior year and prior quarter respectively in direct response to increased raw material and energy cost.
On average we were able to pass on cost increases within 30 to 60 days in most of our products.
Demand remains strong within this business though most of the improvements in sales volume compared to the prior year of 6% was related to the consolidation of our Sasol-Huntsman maleic anhydride joint venture in the second quarter of 2011 and greater production from our Arabian Amines Company joint venture which was started up in the second quarter of last year.
On April 2 we completed the acquisition of the Indian chemicals business of Laffans Petrochemicals Ltd.
The business manufactures amines and surfactants and is the division's first facility in this rapidly growing part of the Asia-Pacific region.
Though we are still assimilating this acquisition it has already had a positive impact on our earnings and will have strong prospects for further earnings and revenue growth.
During the third quarter a part of our Port Neches Texas facility will undergo scheduled maintenance.
The impact to EBITDA is expected to be approximately $7 million to $10 million.
Turning to Slide #5.
Adjusted EBITDA in our Advanced Materials division was $31 million in the second quarter.
During the second quarter we successfully raised our average selling price within this division.
Unfortunately they were outpaced by increases in raw materials and energy cost which led to lower contribution margin.
Pricing for key raw materials such us Bisphenol A and epichlorohydrin have eased somewhat which should allow us to recapture margins in the back half of 2011.
Compared to the prior year volumes decreased 4% as demand in the Asia-Pacific regions slowed down in the electronic and wind energy markets.
In the Americas and European regions demand slowed within the paints and coating markets as well as in construction and other manufacturing activity sectors.
Approximately 40% of the cash fixed cost for our Advanced Materials business are denominated in Swiss francs.
The foreign currency impact of a stronger Swiss franc against the U.S.
dollar had a net effect of decreasing our EBITDA by an estimated $9 million in the quarter compared to the prior year.
The foreign currency impact on our overall business is a topic that Kimo will discuss in his remarks.
Turning to Slide #6.
Our Textile Effects division reported an adjusted EBITDA loss of $7 million in the second quarter.
This business has been impacted by the continued weakness in the textile consumer markets and high cotton prices.
Sales volume decreased 11% compared to the prior year.
Consumer demands for apparel has been improving specifically those items made from synthetic and man-made fiber.
However demand for certain home textiles such as cotton sheets cotton towels and cotton apparels remained weak.
Approximately 2/3 of our business is oriented towards natural fibers such as cotton and wool.
The increase in cotton and wool prices has had a negative impact on our customers the textile mills as they tried to pass these costs on to retailers.
For the first time in a decade apparel retailers have raised prices in an attempt to pass these costs on to consumers.
As cotton and wool prices decrease we expect to see improved demand for consumer items which are cotton-preferred such as sheets towels and certain apparel items.
Approximately 50% of the cash fixed cost of our Textile Effects business are denominated in Swiss francs.
The foreign currency impact of a stronger Swiss franc against the U.S.
dollar on our cash fixed cost has a net effect of decreasing our EBITDA by an estimated $10 million compared to the prior year's quarter.
Let's turn to Slide #7.
Our Pigments division earned $115 million of adjusted EBITDA in the second quarter.
Demand for TiO2 remains robust across all major sectors including coatings and plastics.
Further we do not believe there is much slack in the supply chain as industry producer inventory levels remained less than 40 days.
The supply-demand balance within the industry is very tight and expected to continue.
We have successfully raised prices in an effort to offset increases in raw material and energy cost.
Our average selling price increased 35% compared to the prior year on a local-currency basis.
We expect to be able to offset future raw material and energy cost increase with additional price increases.
Margin improvements resulting from increased selling price will allow us to incrementally add capacity to our current asset base by around 35 000 tons over the next few years.
In addition to benefiting from improved industry economics we've been reshaping our revenue mix to higher value-added products.
This includes growing new products such as our free-floating DELTIO product which increases customer ease and use and mixing as well as increasing sales volumes into higher value-added categories such as food and pharmaceutical grades and specialty inks.
This portfolio shift has contributed to increased average selling prices and improved margins.
Before sharing some concluding thoughts I'd like to turn a few minutes over to Kimo Esplin our Chief Financial Officer.
Thanks Peter.
Let's turn to Slide 8.
In the second quarter 2011 our adjusted EBITDA increased to $318 million from $257 million in the prior year.
The primary reason for this year-over-year increase was an improvement in margins as increased selling prices more than compensated for the increase in raw material costs.
The chart on the left shows that margin expansion accounted for $125 million of the improvement in earnings.
We also saw an improvement in general demand as higher sales volume contributed an additional $47 million in earnings.
Improved margins and volumes were partially offset by an increase in SG&amp;A and other indirect costs including foreign currency movements against the U.S.
dollar.
Compared to the first quarter of 2011 our second quarter adjusted EBITDA increased from $302 million to $318 million.
The primary reason for the sequential increase in adjusted EBITDA was an improvement in margins as increased average selling prices more than compensated for the headwind of increased raw material costs.
The chart on the right shows that margin expansion accounted for $57 million of the improvement in earnings partially offset by an increase in SG&amp;A and other indirect costs including again foreign currency movements against the U.S.
dollar.
Turning to Slide  9.
Our year-over-year sales revenue for the second quarter increased 25% primarily as a result of higher average selling prices.
Improvements in revenue were most notable in Europe which is our largest market and improved 41% in large part due to increased selling prices for MDI.
The rest of the world category which includes the emerging markets such as Central and South America and the Middle East makes up 16% of our total sales and improved 27% while the North American market which is our second largest market improved 21%.
Asia-Pacific which makes up 21% saw the most modest increase in revenues of 11%.
The Chinese government actions to stem inflation by tightening access to capital have made it more difficult for smaller downstream customers to finance working capital and growth in China.
In addition the slowdown of civil construction has moderated growth.
In the near term we expect this region to grow at a more modest pace than we have seen recently.
That said we believe there are tremendous growth opportunities in this important region of the world and we expect our business to grow at a multiple of whatever the underlying GDP is.
Our largest divisions Polyurethane Performance Products and Pigments which account for approximately 80% of our total revenue recorded revenue increases of 22% 34% and 48% respectively.
In total our average selling price improved 19% adjusted for impact of foreign currency in sales and sales volumes improved 4%.
Compared to the prior quarter revenues increased 10% entirely due to strong improvements in average selling prices which increased 8% adjusted for impact of foreign currency.
Now to Slide 10.
Foreign currency movements against the U.S.
dollar had a meaningful impact on our earnings.
Approximately 1/3 of our fixed costs are denominated in U.S.
dollars another 1/3 are in euro and approximately 10% are denominated in the Swiss franc.
Most of our Swiss-based production is sold in euros and so long as the euro and the Swiss franc move in unison there's a natural hedge.
Unfortunately as investors have sought a safe haven from the financial crisis in the United States and in Europe the Swiss franc has appreciated more than 20% in the past year compared to the U.S.
dollar and more than 10% compared to the euro.
In the second quarter the appreciation of the Swiss franc compared to the prior year have the effect of decreasing our EBITDA by approximately $9 million in our Advanced Materials business and $10 million in our Textile Effects business.
We are refining our plans to address this issue.
Let's turn to Slide 11.
At the end of the quarter we had approximately $1.2 billion of cash and unused borrowing capacity.
During the first half of the year we have invested $395 million in cash to increase our primary working capital.
The working capital increased of 21% was consistent with an increase in sales revenue of 27% during the same period.
As prices have increased along with the cost of underlying raw materials so has our working capital investment.
Our days outstanding for primary working capital components is in line with historical averages.
Accounts receivable approximately 50 days inventory approximately 60 days and accounts payable right around 50 days.
We have continued to extend our shorter-term debt instruments as we have in the past.
In April we amended and extended our accounts receivable securitization program to April 2014.
Debt reduction is a priority of management and our board.
In July 2011 we redeemed the remaining $75 million of our 7 3/8% senior subordinated notes due in 2015 with available cash.
During the second quarter of 2011 we spent $61 million on capital expenditures.
In 2011 we expect to spend right around $350 million on capital expenditures.
We'll turn the time back over to Peter.
Thank you Kimo.
During the second quarter we saw a sluggish global GDP and Europe revised its growth to a meager 1.3% and further announced a revised first quarter GDP to a sluggish 0.4% growth.
It would appear that much of the global economy is somewhere between slow and stagnant growth.
However if I look at our past quarter's performance combined with that of the previous quarter we are off to one of the strongest years in our history.
As I've said in the past I believe that within the range of our global markets our technology our talented associates and commitment to improve our balance sheet that we will continue to create shareholder value.
While this past quarter was one of our strongest second quarters in history I still see much room for improvement in our earnings as MDI continues to tighten globally as we see the full potential of our Pigments business and as we see new capacity in maleic amines surfactants and epoxy products come fully online and operate at full capacity.
In China we're seeing steps taken to slow inflation as liquidity requirements change and the inventories are brought down.
In certain areas we've seen slowing demand but this is a market with enormous long-term potential.
We will continue to invest and grow in a wide variety of applications.
I believe we will continue to see growth and higher earnings and as this market grows over time.
I mentioned earlier our acquisition in India which will provide yet further opportunities to grow and expand our products and business in this growing market.
Europe particularly Northern Europe continues to grow in areas of building construction energy conservation transportation and agricultural application.
As the North American economy recovers in housing automotive consumer textiles and other sectors return to more normal levels we will be in the position to benefit even more than we are seeing today.
The North American market is a large production base -- is our largest production base in the world and much of this is based on natural gas liquids which we believe will continue to be very advantageous when compared to competing prices around the world.
We remain optimistic that as challenging as this economic recovery may be we are confident in our ability to continue to create further shareholder value.
With that I'll turn the call back over to Kurt.
Thank you Peter.
Laura (sic) that concludes our prepared marks.
Would you explain the procedure for questions and answers and then open the lines for questions? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Laurence Alexander.
Inc.</strong> I guess 2 questions.
One is how would you evaluate regional demand trends in July and August? Particularly I'm thinking of U.S.
and North America? And secondly this corporate cost run rate sort of reporting line is that the highest level since you came public? Is this a new run rate? Or do you think it will go back down to the $25 million to $35 million run rate it's been historically? Well the answer to your first question we look at regional trends in the U.S.
and North America.
I'm speaking here categorically across many different sectors and so forth.
I would just say that we're certainly not seeing robust growth but I would say that we are seeing stronger business activity and the stronger demand than what the business headlines are that you would read on a daily basis.
We continue to see segment growth that's taking place in product substitution.
We continue to see insulation continuing to grow our surfactants our amines.
And as I said earlier in my comments I believe that the raw material advantage that we're seeing particularly in North America I believe is going to allow us to continue to export product from North America on a global basis.
So again without getting into specific product-by-product analysis here I feel that things are better than what you're reading in the newspapers.
Laurence on the corporate line item we have had about $20 million of LIFO in the first half of the year that's embedded in that corporate line.
I think about it as roughly $45 million a quarter of LIFO is flat $1 million of corporate expenses.
Yes I would say across the board aside from the LIFO we've seen that quite a flat number in our cost in corporate.
Inc.</strong> And then lastly any plans to improve free cash flow generation? Or any additional leverage you can pull in the back half for 2012? We expect our inventory on a relative basis to come down 3 or 4 days.
And that's just the typical seasonal trend towards the end of the year.
So much of it depends on crude and natural gas and basic raw materials.
Your next question comes from the line of P.J.
Juvekar.
In TiO2 you don't use much rutile ore where prices are going up.
Can you talk about your ore prices in ilmenite and what do you see happening there? Well we said in our last call that prices this year would be going up about 35% to 40%.
And that would be throughout 2011.
2012 a little too early to tell but I would imagine 2012 that prices will increase at a greater pace than that.
But P.J.
as we look at the market today and the tightness in the market as I sit here today I'm very confident that we will be able to pass those prices increases on to customers and that we should continue to see strong margins coming out of our TiO2 division.
P.J.
when you look at rutiles -- and we do consume we have 2 chloride plants.
Rutiles are up significantly in the 70% range.
Ilmenites are up as high as 50% 2011 versus 2010.
The sweet spot frankly is in the slag area that's down -- that's up about half that much.
But really both ends of the quality spectrum in terms of ores ilmenite and rutiles are up pretty significantly.
Okay.
And Peter you mentioned in Ad Mat you saw some slowdown in electronics and wind power in Asia.
I was wondering if you can shed some light on that and what specific end market was slowing down? Right.
I think that most of that from what I'm seeing at this point is mostly inventory destocking on the customer side.
I don't see that necessarily as a macro global trend that is taking place as much as I see it.
A lot of the wind producers of blades and a lot of the electronic companies or smaller companies as Kimo mentioned in his comments that we're seeing a lot of the smaller customers medium-size customers in China that are -- with the tightening of capital that are reducing their inventories.
But I don't see that as really a long-term trend that is taking place.
And just lastly on the previous calls you've talked about your amines being used in high-speed rail network in China.
Are you seeing some slowdown there? Thank you P.J.
No I don't see any -- I mean if we see slowdown again I believe the slowdown that we're seeing is on a quarterly basis that would be adjustment for inventory and so forth.
I don't see a slowdown where all of a sudden the Chinese government has put the brakes on infrastructure projects and so forth that would unusually affect the amines capacity and so forth.
Again you'll see monthly or quarterly slowdowns as people will make inventory adjustments in their supply chain.
But the commitment to proceed for the next couple of years in high-speed rail lines and so forth I certainly haven't seen any slowdown in that area.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Zekauskas.
What was your adjusted taxes in the quarter? 20%.
That's the percentage.
What I was wondering is what's the number? Jeff if you have another question go ahead.
we'll dig the dollar amount out.
Right.
So if I could just make 1 comment.
When you report your earnings it's about an hour and a half before your conference call and your financials are quite complex and it's very difficult to reconcile all of the income statement numbers to the data that you provide.
And so what you might consider is you might consider a more complete reconciliation so that the adjustments can be made more easily and so it's easier for people to focus on the fundamentals of what you reported rather than trying to reconcile the numbers or it's at least something to consider.
Fair enough.
Thank you Jeff.
In terms of TiO2 you talked about being able to offset the raw material price pressure that you're facing.
So as you see the TiO2 business is the idea that your margins will remain relatively constant as you offset your raw material pressure? Or over time do you expect your margins to expand or contract temporarily? How do you see the margin progression in the future? Well we've seen the margin -- look I'm not going to comment on where I would expect margins to be 2 or 3 quarters down.
I would say that we expect the markets to be tight enough to be able to offset our raw material cost.
We also believe that there's room for margin improvement to recover our cost of capital in that business and to be able to justify the debottleneck and the further investments that need to be taken into the future.
If I look at the historical margins of TiO2 on average over the last couple of years I believe that any Board of Directors will be hard-pressed to build a greenfield brand-new TiO2 facility.
I mean we just -- now we're starting to get back into the sort of margins that would justify a new plant capacity.
So I would hope that in the coming quarters that we're able not only to offset the raw material cost increases but we're also be able to expand margins because this division particularly when we look at the losses over the last 6 or 7 years this division needs to be able to justify the invested capital going forward.
What's the extent of your de-bottlenecking efforts? That will be -- at this point what we have announced that will be in existing facilities where we can debottleneck around present kilns and around our present capacity.
That does not include the addition of any new lines or any what I would call material CapEx investment in the business capacity.
How much do you think you can debottleneck? I think I mentioned about 40 000 tons of TiO2 capacity.
Jeff the cash taxes paid for the first 6 months the Q will show $35 million and as it relates to the adjusted income tax expense it's $32 million for the 3 months.
And we're happy to walk you through that reconciliation in the back of the release after the call if you like.
Your next question comes from the line of Edlain Rodriguez.
Inc.</strong> Just a quick question on prices.
I mean most of the segments they have shown significant price increases.
And of course a good chunk of it is cost push.
So does that suggest like a heavy commoditization of the portfolio of the businesses in there? And does that mean you're going to have to give up all those prices if raw material cost abate in the future? No I don't believe that's the case at all.
I think that the fact that we're able to increase prices as quickly as we've been able to in the last quarter would indicate to me that the markets are tight and that we have pricing power to be able to put those prices up and pass those raw material costs on.
Traditionally in most -- all of our products raw materials are not the key driver for pricing.
You're looking at raw materials as one of the drivers you're looking at the performance of the products logistics timing contract obligations and so forth.
So as raw material prices would drop I do not believe that all of our pricing will drop in situ with that.
Again in some of our products that indeed will be the case.
We saw some products on the tolling basis and so forth.
That obviously will be the case.
But typically it takes us anywhere from 30 to 60 days to raise prices when raw material prices go up.
And when raw material prices go down that a lot of it depends on competitive pressure but I would expect us to be able to retain those margins going forward.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Just a quick question on -- for modeling purposes.
Interest expense went up quite a bit this quarter versus Q1.
Is that the run rate going forward? I mean why that increase? And also on the tax rate should we expect the 20% or so in the second half of the year? Yes.
So interest rate -- interest expense went up because we consolidated 2 joint ventures in the last year that we could call variable interest entities.
And so there is $300 million of additional debt from those feeds 50-50 joint ventures that were consolidated.
Of course the interest expense came with them.
So that was an increase in interest expense.
As it relates to our effective tax rate we think it will be in the mid 20s for the second half of the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Andy Cash.
Just a couple of things.
First of all Peter you mentioned in your outlook statements you had mentioned Polyurethanes and Pigments in favorable terms but noticeably absent was Advanced Materials and Textile Effects.
So my first question is given the private equity funds and chemical companies a lot of cash looking to spend some money would now be a good opportunity to try and reshape the portfolio? Well we obviously haven't made any decisions around that area.
But as we look at Advanced Materials I believe that when you look at our first quarter versus -- second quarter versus first quarter performance we continue to see strong demand that is building for aerospace and so forth.
We were hit with a $9 million FX charge in the second quarter that frankly was rather unexpected that happened I think much quicker than most people anticipated with the rise of the Swiss.
And I think longer we expect the Advanced Materials business to have a strong year.
Textile Effects again we had a rather large $10 million hit for the quarter just on the cost of the Swiss currency fluctuation alone and I believe that we're taking aggressive step to try to mitigate that.
So no I think that in both of those businesses we would expect those to be improving over the course of the next few quarters coming forward.
Right.
But they could also be improving in someone else's had.
That was really kind of the spirit of my question if now might be a good time to think about raising some cash and using the cash to some of your higher-growth businesses.
Well we're always looking for opportunities to create value for shareholders.
And if you look at those businesses now I believe that those businesses are profitable in our hands as they would be in anybody else's.
Okay.
Just second question turning to MDI plans for Asia.
It sounds like it's getting a little crowded over there with Dow's announcement with Saudi Aramco BASF.
They've raised some money to build a plant there in Yantai Wanhua.
Where does Huntsman stand on this? Are you still looking at some new capacity in MDI over there? Or are you looking at perhaps just expanding your Kaoshiung plant? No we are looking at continuing to receive the permitting approval to expand our Kaoshiung facility.
And as anybody that's listened to the last couple of calls would perhaps get a sense of -- a little bit of frustration in my comments as to a permitting process that has been at a snail's pace here.
I don't believe that our permitting process is any different from anybody else's.
And I believe that a lot of these this is just my personal opinion I believe that a lot of these announced expansions in Asia particularly in China are going to be coming on substantially later than what some in the market have been publishing and had been speculating.
We are still working out over a year just to get the environmental permitting.
And I just want to emphasize I don't believe that there's anything that's unique about Huntsman's experience.
I believe that that is -- when you look at the recent BASF approval in Chongqing that was a multiyear process.
And I certainly don't speak for anybody at BASF.
But I would be surprised if they were expecting it to have taken as long as it did.
So yes I would think that a lot of these announcements that you see right now again just my opinion I would think that some of those can be pushed out multiple years not quarters.
Your next question comes from the line of Roger Spitz.
In Performance Products was there a sequential contribution margin compression as raw material rose faster than prices? And if so in which area was most impacted by maleic performance specialty or performance intermediates? Performance Products in EBITDA terms prices went up the same amount as direct cost did.
So contribution margins were flat.
Perfect.
And in Advanced Materials was there reduced contribution margins sequentially? Was that hitting more the base resin business or the downstream businesses? It's mostly base resin business.
The formulation business is pretty consistent and the specialty component businesses as well.
Remember that part of that base resin business is in the second quarter too we experienced a force majeure from some our suppliers of bisphenol and epichlorohydrin.
So we had some raw material price increases that took place.
And I believe that if we look in the second half of the year that much of that will be mitigated and we hope to get that back.
Perfect.
And finally just on the MDI portion of Polyurethanes was there contribution margin compression sequentially? Or -- I may have missed that.
No I believe that that -- those margins improved during the quarter for MDI.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Koort.
This is Manav today.
Just on the Performance Products even if I add back the 1-time $50 million credit and some currency effects there was some sequential decline in Performance product as well as in Advanced Materials.
So my question here is the raw materials are often high how much more do they have to come in before you can start seeing the margin we saw in the first quarter and at least Performance Products and Advanced Materials? Well Performance Products is the 1 business that we account for on a LIFO basis.
So all the other businesses are on average costing basis.
So you may see a little different reaction to the major raw materials which are ethylene oxide and propylene oxide at least in North America as it relates to Performance Products.
And as far as Advanced Materials where do you see the margins in the second part of this year? Well as Peter indicated we're starting to see some of the raw materials epichlorohydrin Bisphenol A come off which helps our base resin business.
You remember we don't make a lot of money in our base resin business.
It's really feeding our formulation and specialty components business but nonetheless it does affect those margins.
And any signs of the improvement in the sales volumes in Textile Effects? Or it's in line with second quarter itself right now? I think it's probably too early to tell as we look into the third quarter.
But again I would be heartened by some of the decreases that we've seen in cotton prices.
Cotton prices have come down about 25% 30% in the last 2 quarters or so.
So the mills and so forth are looking to restock their inventories.
I'm very hopeful that we'll be able to see an improvement in the volume in that area of the business.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Young.
I noticed on the Polyurethanes segment it looks like volume was only up 2%.
Maybe I'm missing something here and how does it compare for the MDI and urethanes versus of PO/MTBE area? Well when you look at MDI we had a year-over-year 8% growth in Asia.
In the Americas it was 5%.
In Europe we were down 4% getting into that sort of 2% MDI number.
And what was the reason for that for why it was down 4%? Well we had an outage in our Rozenburg facility.
Air products had an outage.
It really took a lot of our variance or more pure other specialty grade of MDI out of the market automotive and some other areas that were pretty tight for us and we lost some volume with that outage.
Fair to say Bill that what we're producing in Europe what we're capable of producing in Europe we're producing and we're selling.
Okay great.
Now 1 more please.
In TiO2 you mentioned strong demand in coatings.
I know there are a lot of coatings out there.
But U.S.
architecture is a pretty big business and again I realized you're global.
But how does that fit into the equation and what happens to the business when this market returns? And related to that are you worried about customer inventory building given the rapid price increases in the Pigments? I'm not saying -- firstly I'm a little bit fuzzy on the North American decorative coating market just because we're mostly a European player and we're not going to be competing very aggressively in the North American market just because we don't have lot of products to sell in that area.
But we continue to see healthy demand particularly in the European markets around TiO2.
Again that's going to fluctuate on a quarter-by-quarter as a seasonal pattern as you typically see there.
So I don't want to make it sound like that's a straight line demand growth.
As you look at -- I'm sorry the second part of your question Bill? On inventory I don't believe that there's been a great deal of inventory build on the customer.
Now I'm just speaking from Huntsman's point of view as we look at right now we look at our days of inventory where it's less than 30 days as a company and the industry is a little bit over 30 days of inventory.
And so there's not a lot of -- if you were a paint company out there and you saw price increases coming you would have come to Huntsman and say I want to increase my volume from Huntsman so that I can build by volume internally.
I'm not sure that there's a lot of volume in the market to do that.
I have not seen just anecdotally speaking with customers and so forth I've not seen this large inventory doubled its move to the producer to the consumer pigment.
Generally Bill if you talk to the paint folks they do not have the logistics capacity to take on a lot of inventory.
Typically you would see a couple of weeks at most of inventory is the maximum a paint company can take.
So really when you're looking at inventories you really are looking at the producer levels which Peter indicated -- above 30 days but well below 40 days.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Michael Shrekgast.
Could you just talk a little bit more about the margin in Performance Products sequentially? What changed in that the margin came being down relative to first quarter? And what's the outlook for going over the next -- do you sort of recoup that through price increases? Yes I think Peter indicated and hopefully you noted that in the third quarter we will have some downtime in one of our facilities that will impact as much as $10 million.
So sequentially plan on that impact in the third quarter.
As it relates to Performance Products are you asking about sequentially or year-over-year? Sequentially.
Yes I indicated that prices rose about the same amount as direct cost so contribution margins were pretty flat there.
You do have some pressure on SG&amp;A and indirects because we consolidated a couple of joint ventures and saw some more cost come in from the new facilities that we just started up.
Okay.
So we should -- is the current trend more the trend that we should likely see for the rest of the year? Just for that turnaround in the third quarter yes.
There are no questions at this time.
I'd like to turn the call over to Kurt Ogden for closing remarks.
Thank you everyone for joining us this morning.
If you have any additional questions feel free to reach out to us directly and we'll talk to you then.
Thanks again.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter Huntsman Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Cathy and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today's call to Mr.
Kurt Ogden Huntsman Corporation Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you very much Cathy and good morning everyone.
Joining us on the call today are Jon Huntsman Executive Chairman and Founder; Peter Huntsman President and CEO; and Kimo Esplin Executive Vice President and CFO.
This morning before the market opened we released our earnings for the third quarter 2011 via press release and posted it on our website huntsman.com.
We also posted a set of slides on our website which we intend to use on the call this morning in the discussion of our results.
During this call we may make statements about our projections or expectations for the future.
All such statements are forward-looking statements.
And while they reflect our current expectations they involve risks and uncertainties and are not guarantees of future performance.
You should review our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for more information regarding the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these projections or expectations.
We do not plan on publicly updating or revising any forward-looking statements during the quarter.
In addition we may also refer to non-GAAP financial measures.
You can find reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in our earnings release posted on our website at huntsman.com.
As we refer to earnings we will be referring to adjusted EBITDA which is EBITDA adjusted to exclude the impact of discontinued operations restructuring impairment and plant-closing costs income and expense associated with the terminated merger and related litigation acquisition-related expenses unallocated foreign exchange gains and losses certain legal and contract settlement costs losses from early extinguishment of debt gain on the consolidation of variable interest entity and losses and gains on disposition and acquisitions of businesses and assets.
A reconciliation of EBITDA adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income or loss can be found in the appendix of our slides and in our third quarter earnings release.
Let's turn to Slide 2.
In our earnings release this morning we reported third quarter 2011 revenue of $2 976 000 000 adjusted EBITDA of $345 million and adjusted earnings per share of $0.45 per diluted share.
Our adjusted EBITDA was $345 million in the third quarter 2011 compared to $273 million in the prior year an increase of 26%.
Compared to the prior quarter of $318 million our adjusted EBITDA increased 8%.
I will now turn the call over to Peter Huntsman our President and CEO.
Thank you Kurt.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining taking the time to join us.
Let's turn to Slide #3.
Adjusted EBITDA for our Polyurethanes division for the third quarter 2011 was $140 million.
I'm generally encouraged by the demand trends we saw in our MDI products though we saw different regional trends within the quarter.
In the Americas we saw a strong growth both sequentially and on a year-over-year basis led by improvements in insulation and the automotive sector demand and further market substitutions for our wood products and furniture sectors.
In Europe demand was essentially unchanged as we focused on margin protection and seeded some less profitable business to the competition.
From a demand perspective we saw the most improvement sequentially and on a year-over-year basis in the Asia region.
However the effect of tightening credit and an increased regional supply led to sequentially lower average selling prices and margin.
One of the sectors where we continue to see strong growth is insulation which compared to the prior year grew 21% in the quarter and 17% year-to-date.
The supply-demand balance for the MDI industry as a whole is relatively unchanged compared to the second quarter.
We estimate the MDI industry operated around 90% of nameplate capacity in the third quarter.
Propylene oxide and its co-product MTBE have performed very well this entire year.
Earnings in the third quarter were above historical averages and comparable to those in the second quarter of this year.
Strong Latin America demand combined with the large spread between Brent crude which has an impact on MTBE pricing and WTI crude which drives certain MTBE raw material cost have the effect of maintaining our high margins.
We expect margins to contract in the fourth quarter consistent with typical year-end seasonality.
Turning to Slide #4.
In the third quarter our Performance Products division earned $97 million of adjusted EBITDA.
As announced in our second quarter earnings call during the third quarter our Port Neches Texas facility underwent some planned maintenance which had an impact negatively of about $8 million on EBITDA.
Demand within this business was generally stable across all regions though we did see some pockets of softness in amines and surfactants.
We have seen increased supply of ethyleneamines come online within the last year.
This increased competition has s put downward pressure on volumes and margins.
We expect an industry-wide seasonal slowdown in demand in the fourth quarter accompanied by lower selling prices as the cost of some of our raw materials has moderated.
This business benefits more than any other in our portfolio from the low cost of North American natural gas and we expect that to continue.
Approximately 2/3 of our production capacity is located along the U.S.
Gulf Coast giving us a unique cost advantage where over 60% of our raw materials and manufacturing costs are ethane based.
Turning to Slide #5.
Adjusted EBITDA for our Advanced Materials division was $26 million in the third quarter.
During the third quarter we successfully raised our average selling price within the division.
Unfortunately this was more than offset by higher raw material cost and fixed costs within the business.
The foreign currency impact primarily from the stronger Swiss franc have the net effect of decreasing our EBITDA by an estimated $7 million in the quarter compared to the prior year.
Approximately 40% of our cash fixed cost for our Advanced Materials business are denominated in Swiss francs.
Seeing an opportunity to improve the profitability and direction of this business in July we reorganized the senior leadership of this business.
We recently announced a global restructuring program that will reduce 120 positions primarily in Switzerland as part of the overall restructuring of this division.
We took a restructuring charge of $24 million in the third quarter and expect approximately $20 million of annual savings from this restructuring.
Although we will see some modest savings in the fourth quarter we don't expect to see the full run rate until the end of the second quarter 2012.
Given the industrial and consumer demand for many of the applications I'm confident that we will see an improvement in 2012 in this division.
Turning to Slide #6.
Our Textile Effects division reported an adjusted EBITDA loss of $29 million for the third quarter.
Sales volumes decreased 13% compared to the prior year and are down more than 30% from demand levels in the third quarter of 2007.
Approximately 2/3 of our business is oriented towards natural fiber products such as cotton and wool.
And although demand for synthetic fiber has improved modestly demand for home textiles such as cotton sheets cotton towels and cotton apparel remains weak.
The foreign currency impact primarily from a stronger Swiss franc have the net effect of decreasing our EBITDA by an estimated $10 million in the quarter compared to the prior year.
Approximately 50% of the cash fixed cost of our Textile Effects division are denominated in Swiss francs.
In September we announced our intention to restructure this business and reduce our cost infrastructure.
We plan on closing our production facilities and business support in Basel Switzerland which will eliminate 600 positions.
This represents a reduction of 15% of the division's total workforce.
We remain committed to our innovation capability and the Basel-based research and technology group will not be affected.
We expect that 100 positions will be moved to other sites within the business and another 100 will be hired within the key markets close to our customers.
In the third quarter we recorded a cash restructuring charge of $73 million.
We expect additional future cash restructuring charges of approximately $30 million an annual savings of approximately $70 million.
During the third quarter we will record a $53 million non-cash impairment of our Basel Switzerland manufacturing facility.
We do not expect to see hardly any benefits in 2012 as we wind down our operations to be closed and transfer products to more competitive sites thus operating 2 sites simultaneously.
We should see approximately 2/3 of the benefits in 2013 and 2014 achieve the full benefits of this restructuring.
Let's turn to Slide #7.
Our Pigments division earned $161 million of adjusted EBITDA for the third quarter.
Demand for TiO2 remains high although it's moderated slightly.
Industry producer inventory levels are less than 45 days suggesting the supply chain is tight.
Our inventory levels are significantly below the industry estimates as we continue to sell everything we can make.
Our third quarter 2011 sales volumes decreased 8% compared to the prior year primarily because we had lower finished goods inventory available for sale.
We continue to see positive traction with our announced prices.
Third quarter average selling prices increased 38% on a local-currency basis compared to the prior year.
In addition to benefiting from improved industry economics we've been reshaping our revenue mix to higher value-added products.
This includes growing number of products such as our free-flowing DELTIO product which increased customer ease-of-use and mixing as well as increasing sales volumes into higher value-added segments.
This portfolio shift has contributed to increased average selling prices and improved margins.
Sales for our differentiated Pigments that command a premium over our commodity products represent over 40% of our total sales in 2011.
We expect there to be meaningful increases in raw material and energy costs in the future most notably in the cost of titanium-bearing ores.
We expect the cost of our high-grade feedstocks such as rutile chloride and sulfate slag to increase more than ilmenite which is used for about 40% of our sulfate process production.
We will continue to try to offset the increases in direct cost with additional price increases.
Barring a major economic recession we expect strong earnings from Pigments for the next few years.
There will continue to be seasonal softness and de-stocking at times during the year and we expect this to happen during the fourth quarter thus we expect fourth quarter to be lower than third quarter.
But from what we see today the industry should be strong for some years to come.
Before sharing some concluding thoughts I'd like to turnover a few minutes to Kimo Esplin our Chief Financial Officer.
Thanks Peter.
Let's turn to Slide 8.
Let me address some items that affected our earnings during the quarter.
We expect our long-term effective tax rate to be approximately 30% to 35%.
Our adjusted 2011 effective tax rate has been running below this primarily due to tax valuation allowances in countries like the U.K.
France and Spain where we have meaningful Pigments operations.
Tax valuation allowances in these countries have the effect of lowering and in some cases eliminating the tax effect in the P&amp;L from these respective countries.
We also have a tax valuation allowance in Switzerland where our Textile Effects business has meaningfully operations.
The losses currently being generated by our Textile Effects business in Switzerland pushed the effective tax rate higher as we are unable to book benefits due to the valuation allowance.
The increase in the forecasted losses from our Textile Effects business in the third quarter had the effect of increasing our losses in Switzerland and in turn increasing our projected tax rate for the year.
We are required to adjust our third quarter year-to-date tax rate to our expected full year rate.
This resulted in a recognition of more tax expense during the third quarter and 38% adjusted effective income tax rate.
We expect our fourth quarter and full year 2012 adjusted tax rate to be slightly less than 30%.
As indicated in our release this morning this had a negative impact of approximately $0.08 per diluted share on our third quarter 2011 results.
For the most part we use the weighted average cost method for valuing our inventories.
However approximately 10% of our inventories are accounted for using the LIFO cost method.
Although the LIFO costing primarily relates to inventories in our North American Performance Products business we account for the movements in LIFO reserves within our corporate LIFO and other segments.
Movements in LIFO reserves are included in our adjusted earnings.
LIFO costs have been a headwind all year for us due to the continuous rise in raw material costs and had the effect of reducing our earnings by $8 million in the third quarter and $27 million year-to-date.
When raw material prices moderate within our North American Performance Products business we expect reduced LIFO movement.
In our Advanced Materials and Textile Effects businesses foreign currency had a negative impact of approximately $17 million on earnings compared to prior year primarily due to the strong Swiss franc.
Approximately 1/3 of our fixed cost are denominated in U.S.
dollars another 1/3 in euro and approximately 10% are denominated in Swiss franc.
Most of our Swiss franc-based production is sold in euros and so long as the euro and the Swiss franc move in unison against the U.S.
dollar there's generally a natural hedge.
Unfortunately the Swiss franc has appreciated approximately 20% in the past year compared to the U.S.
dollar and more than 10% compared to the euro.
As Peter discussed we recently announced plans to restructure our Advanced Materials and Textile Effects businesses.
We recorded $155 million of restructuring charges during the third quarter of 2011 consisting of $102 million of cash charges and $53 million of non-cash impairment of assets.
We expect additional future cash charges from all of our restructuring plans of approximately $35 million.
We expect future annual benefits of approximately $90 million from this restructuring.
We will see some modest benefits in 2012 75% of the benefits in 2013 and the full $90 million run rate by the end of 2013.
Turning to Slide 9.
In the third quarter 2011 our adjusted EBITDA increased to $345 million from $273 million in the prior year.
The primary reason for this year-over-year increase was an improvement in margins as increased selling prices more than compensated for the increase in raw material costs.
Improved margins were partially offset by a decrease in sales volumes and an increase in SG&amp;A and other indirect costs including foreign currency movements against the U.S.
dollar.
Compared to the second quarter of 2011 our third quarter adjusted EBITDA increased from $318 million to $345 million.
The primary reason for the sequential increase in adjusted EBITDA was a decrease in our SG&amp;A and other indirect costs.
Turning to Slide 10.
Our year-over-year revenue for the third quarter increased 24% primarily as a result of higher average selling prices.
We had more sales from our North American region than any other during the third quarter.
Sales in this market increased 32%.
Year-over-year improvements in revenue where most notable in Europe which increased 34%.
The Asia-Pacific region which made up 21% of our total revenues increased 16% while our rest of the world category which includes emerging markets such as Central and South America and the Middle East made up 15% of our total sales and improved 3%.
Our largest divisions Polyurethanes Performance Products and Pigments which account for approximately 80% of our revenues recorded revenue increases of 26% 25% and 39% respectively.
In total our average selling price improved 20% adjusted for the impact of foreign currency while our sales volumes declined 5%.
Compared to the prior quarter consolidated revenues increased modestly by 1% due to improvements in our sales mix.
Let's go to Slide 11.
At the end of the quarter we had approximately $1 billion of cash and unused borrowing capacity.
During the third quarter of 2011 our cash net investment and primary working capital increased $111 million.
Although the net value of our primary working capital has increased year-to-date consistent with the underlying rise in raw material and energy costs these trends reversed in the course of the third quarter.
Our days outstanding per primary working capital components remains in line with historical averages.
In August we announced that our Board of Directors authorized repurchase of up to $100 million in shares of our common stock.
During the quarter of -- the third quarter of 2011 we acquired approximately 4 million shares of our outstanding common stock for approximately $50 million under the repurchase program.
We continue to reduce our outstanding debt.
During the quarter we redeemed approximately $111 million of our senior subordinated notes.
Yesterday we provided notice that we will redeem all of our outstanding 6 7/8% senior subordinated euro notes due 2013 worth approximately $93 million.
As we generated additional free cash flow we will continue to look for opportunities to reduce our outstanding leverage.
We spent $93 million on capital expenditures net of reimbursements during the third quarter.
In 2011 we expect to spend approximately $350 million on capital expenditures.
Yesterday we announced the sale of our stereolithography and Digitalis manufacturing machine business to 3D Systems Corporation for $41 million in cash.
We determined these pieces of our business were not part of our Advanced Materials division core competitive strengths.
The impact on our P&amp;L will be minimal.
Associated revenues were $7 million in 2010.
I'll now turn the time back to Peter for some concluding remarks.
Thank you Kimo.
In spite of shifting demands anemic economic growth and uncertainty from one quarter to the next we had a record quarter of adjusted EBITDA.
Even with fourth quarter adjusted EBITDA typically 20% lower than third quarter adjusted EBITDA due to seasonality and de-stocking we are well on our way to a record year.
I will repeat what I have said in previous quarters I continue to believe that North America and global economic conditions simply do not match most of the dower economic headlines and forecasts.
I shall not attempt to forecast global economic directions.
However I do not see the signs of a double-dip recession in North America.
If anything I question where much of the supply will come from should we see a recovery in housing to pre-2008 recession levels.
While we are seeing strong earnings in our Pigments division I personally expect that our MDI Polyurethanes and Advanced Materials divisions will see major improvements in the coming year.
I expect that we will earn record adjusted EBITDA this year in our Performance Products group and I see room for continued improvements in the coming years.
As painful as it's been for us to make the employment cuts in Textile Effects this past quarter as we complete our recently announced restructuring program we should be generating positive cash flow by the end of the implementation of this program.
In short this company has earned nearly $1.2 billion of adjusted EBITDA in the past 4 quarters.
As I look out over 2012 and 2013 barring a global economic recession I do not see why these should not be stronger years for us.
2011 will be a very strong year for us but I'm even more optimistic when I look into the future than our past.
With that I'll turn the time over to Kurt.
Thank you Peter.
Cathy that concludes our prepared remarks.
Would you explain the procedure for questions and answers and then open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Robert Koort.
Research Division</strong> Bob Koort of Goldman Sachs.
Can you guys talk a little bit about the dynamic for MDI in Asia.
I guess we've been hearing some commentary recently about some price pressure there and maybe your Chinese-based competitors seeking volume over price.
And then what is the status of the supply additions from BASF and then your own project there? Well I think longer term Bob the market certainly is going through some de-stocking in the Asian markets as we typically see this time of year.
But as we look at the overall capacity utilization rates and the lack of new production coming on I think as we look out over the next couple of years we look at our own potential expansion in Asia and what BASF has announced in the anti we're still looking at least 2 to 3 years down the road and more likely perhaps even longer than that.
So I mean as I look out over the next couple of years I see capacity if anything getting tighter in Asia.
I would say that in Asia that there are pockets of de-stocking that are taking place right now but we continue to see the Asian economies grow at a fairly decent rate.
And I think again longer term these trends are going to be favorable for us.
Bob if you look at our year-over-year MDI sales you remember year-over-year for the quarter we had roughly 9% increase.
Asia had a 16% year-over-year third quarter MDI growth rate in terms of volumes and that was really led by darn near 50% increase in our construction-related insulation business in Asia and automotive was about 6%.
So third quarter sales pretty strong.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then Kimo in the past you've been helpful talking a little bit about your cost position on titanium ores certainly the ore providers talk about some pretty dramatic increases.
Can you give us some sense of how those phase into you and what we should expect fast forward from a cost standpoint? From an ore standpoint your remember we said that 2011 ore prices would increase about 40%.
2012 the jury's still out but it could be as much as double.
So you might want to think about it in TiO2 terms we might see as much as $700 a ton increase in TiO2 terms in ore costs in 2012.
Now that $700 a ton obviously in TiO2 terms you got to think about pricing.
This year alone in 2011 we've probably seen $1 000 a ton in terms of price increases.
Research Division</strong> Kimo you're talking when you say you could see $600 $700 of ore costs that's your net year-on-year not some benchmark is that right? That's what we -- we're kind of thinking about what market would be.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess that's where I'm asking for some clarity because these contracts the legacy in ore was for annualized multiyear contracts and now the industry's trying to go to shorter durations.
My guess is that our mix of contracts looks an awful lot like everyone else's.
Everyone has multiple contracts.
The roll over 1 year 2 years 3 years and they are all going shorter.
So my guess is is that a possible doubling of ore costs in 2012 is going to be pretty close to what everyone else is going to experience.
Bob this is Peter.
One thing that again that you might want to just bear a note I mentioned this during the call is that obviously not all ores raw materials are the same for all producers.
You look at something like chloride slag this next year that could increase as much as close to $1 000 a ton where ilmenite which is a raw material for a sulfate plan increased by around $100 a ton.
And so as we look at our sulfate production about 40% 45% of our raw material for the sulfate production is ilmenite.
And I think that as we look out at least over the next couple of years is ore -- titanium ores are going to be tight here.
I'd much rather be in a position with a sulfate facility buying ilmenite than a chloride facility that is going to be paying much much higher raw material cost than what Huntsman would pay.
And in short I think that our portfolio of production facilities will advantage us to the rest of the market.
Our next question comes from the line of Kevin McCarthy.
Research Division</strong> This is Kevin McCarthy with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
With regard to your TiO2 volume in the quarter down 8% year-over-year can you give us a feel for how much of that might relate to industry conditions with slower macro growth for example relative to the inventory-related constraints that you cited? I think virtually all of that was inventory.
We were able to sell everything that we could make in the third quarter.
I mean there might have been 1% build in inventory or 1% or 2% build in inventory during the time.
I'll remind you that typically during -- especially during the fourth quarter we're building inventory.
So the only reason that we saw a decrease in the third quarter sales is because we didn't have as much inventory to sell in the third quarter as the year ago.
Had we had that same amount of inventories a year ago we would have been able to sell that.
You remember Kevin we said that we weren't going to see much seasonality in our business in the second third quarter simply because of that reason.
We didn't have the kind of inventory to be able to pick it up this year.
If we make it we're selling it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess in that context how would you characterize your TiO2 Pigment inventory in days at September 30.
I imagine it's a relatively low number but where would you put that? We're significantly below the industry which is in the low 40s.
We're well below that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then coming back to ore if I may.
You mentioned ilmenite was 40% of your mix.
How would you break down the remaining 60% among rutile slag and other? It's similar to -- obviously it's going to vary on pricing and then used demand.
But let's...
If you think about our ore requirements just in terms of tons of ore this doesn't reflect sort of the contained ore if you will.
But we'll purchase roughly 32% of ores our chloride-based ores that's chloride slag and rutile.
And that 68% of ores are sulfate ores.
Now again that doesn't reflect the contained titanium right.
You have to adjust that for the contained titanium.
And so sulfate ores are roughly split 50-50 sulfate slag and ilmenite and same with chloride slag and rutile for our chloride ores.
Our next question comes from the line of P.J.
Juvekar.
Research Division</strong> Is it fair to say that the real bottleneck in TiO2 is in the ore and so any value creation going forward will flow upstream to the ore guys? I'm not sure that that's necessarily accurate P.J.
Look if you see a drop in demand or de-stocking that's taking place in TiO2 so it's not like ore is going into TiO2 and a host of other products.
If the demand drops for TiO2 demand is also going to drop for ore.
I don't just don't buy the argument that you're going to see prices skyrocket because demand skyrockets in ores and without demand doing likewise in TiO2.
I think TiO2 supply-demand is very very similar to that which is found in ore.
So as Peter said when you have a situation where the downstream product and the upstream product are similar I think you're going to see very similar pricing practice.
No doubt in 2010 and '11 you saw TiO2 leading the price charge.
But in 2012 perhaps you'll see the ore side of that.
But I believe that if ore prices go up at the TiO2 industry if they absorb those ore prices we'll also be able to pass that on to consumers.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And second question for Kimo on operating cash flow.
It's been somewhat weak this year and I know that you had working capital build year-to-date.
So when do you see that operating cash flow improving? Well P.J.
that's a function really of our raw materials.
In short sort of where natural gas and crude and ores have gone.
And as I mentioned our days inventory and days receivables are very consistent with the historical trends.
And as we have seen raw materials moderate here in the third quarter I think you're going to start to see some benefits.
Where I'm sitting today you should expect to see cash flow from working capital in the fourth quarter given those raw material trends.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeff Zekauskas from J.P.
Morgan.
Research Division</strong> Thanks very much for the adjustments to your financial presentation.
Providing pretax income on an adjusted basis it was really easy to work with this morning.
You took $102 million in restructuring charges what did you spend that on in cash charges? That's almost all headcount reduction.
Research Division</strong> So how many people did you let go or how many people do you plan to let go? Roughly 600.
That's in the Textile Effects end of the business.
On the Advanced Materials another 120 positions.
So roughly about 720 to 730.
Research Division</strong> And why won't you see the benefit next year? Why do you have to wait till '13? We will be actually operating -- so picture as we shutdown a facility we have facilities today that are literally producing scores of different grades of Textile Effects products.
And we don't shut down one plant on one day and the next day we operate start operating the second plant.
We have to transition those products from one product to the next over to a new plant.
And so that plant needs to continue to absorb its fixed costs and it needs to continue to operate until the last of those products have been certified accepted by our customers and matched if you will by a second low-cost facility.
So again hypothetically we have a facility in Switzerland that's slated to come down.
It's being replaced by a facility a lower-cost facility closer to our customers in China.
That facility in Switzerland will continue to have its fixed cost and will continue to operate until the very last of those grades has been transferred accepted by its customers.
So over the course of 2012 you'll see those grades transferring to China.
The facility in China will have to increase its production have to increase at its cost to be able to take those grades.
So essentially over 2012 while that transfer is taking place we're operating 2 facilities simultaneously.
And won't be until the latter part of 2012 we believe that there'll be full certification full transfer of those various grades to where you can fully shutdown and eliminate all of the fixed costs associated with your Swiss assets.
We will be pushing that as aggressively as we can and as hard as we can but I think we're also hindered a little bit by how quickly our customers will accept requalifications and so forth.
So sorry about the long laborious answer but I think it's a very good question.
We're cutting our costs as quickly as we possibly can but we will have to do this in order.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
In the quarter you spoke of a $17 million currency hit from the appreciation of the Swiss franc but it also looks like you had some other currency benefits.
What was to the net currency effect in the quarter? The $17 million is the net -- the headwind from Swiss franc was greater than the $17 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in TiO2 it looks to me like you're selling your product at an average price of somewhere between $3 900 and $4 000 a ton is that right? I think on average that would be -- yes on average.
I think the average price in the third quarter was $3 650 a ton.
Research Division</strong> Is that exclusive of currency benefits or inclusive? That is net with changes in currency.
Research Division</strong> So it doesn't include the currency benefits.
It does include the currency benefits.
Research Division</strong> It does.
Okay.
And then lastly you said that you thought TiO2 would be pretty -- or Pigments would be pretty strong over the next few years.
Did you mean that you expected your adjusted EBITDA to grow or just to stay high or you were agnostic about that? I think I'd try to avoid any sort of quarterly numbers.
Again recognizing that TiO2 will continue to be a seasonal product where you'll see very strong demand in the second and third quarter weaker demands in the first and fourth quarter.
But I think that as you look at year-on-year 2011 '12 '13 going into '14 as far as we can see I believe that TiO2 will continue to be a very strong some quarters improving and perhaps some quarters we see de-stocking slackening a bit.
I'm not trying to be evasive on the answer.
I wouldn't get into trying to forecast it on a yearly and quarterly basis but I do believe that the sort of margin percentages that we're seeing today will continue with variations with seasonality throughout the year.
Research Division</strong> But what I meant was over a multiyear period did you expect your adjusted EBITDA to grow or to shrink or to stay the same not on a quarterly basis but over the next several years.
I think that we would expect it to remain in the general vicinity where it is today.
I mean again but with opportunities to expand some quarters and you'll probably see some quarters where you'll see contraction.
But I don't think that this is going to continue to grow up towards 40% 50% EBITDA margins.
I look at the margins today I don't see TiO2 peaking I see it plateauing.
And I see it plateauing for a couple of years that way at least for a couple of years.
Our next question comes from the line of Roger Spitz of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Could you speak about how propylene oxide volumes and contribution margins move versus Q2 '11 and any outlook on PO demand for Q4 '11? Roger your remember that propylene oxide MTBE we have a very stable propylene oxide contribution and it's the MTBE that sort of moves around.
A good benchmark for that would be C factors.
And C factors fell second quarter to third quarter from a roughly $0.120 per gallon to about $1.05 a gallon.
So they fell roughly $0.15 $0.16.
And I think that's probably a good sort of relative change from -- on a sequential basis in our PO MTBE margins.
The C factors you remember deals exclusively with MTBE.
On the propylene oxide side again I think that you'll see fairly stable earnings as a lot of that business is done on a poll basis.
So we don't see a great deal of volatility in the PO side of the earnings.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on Advanced Materials which if not both raw materials were responsible for that contribution margin compression? And Q3 was it Epi or BPA or perhaps something else or both? I think I believe it's a combination of both.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And lastly on Pigments you said you expect that prices -- I think I heard up in 2011 or $1 000 a metric ton.
You spoke about expecting ore cost in TiO2 terms up in 2012 on $700 a metric ton but have you said or can you say what you expect ore costs in 2011 to be up in TiO2 terms? 2011 ore costs were up about 210 -- about 20%.
Just to follow-up on Roger's question.
I think bisphenol A prices rose year-over-year about 34% and epichlorohydrin prices rose about 18% in Advanced Materials.
So it's both.
Just to clarify the ore costs in 2011 were up about 20% over 2010.
Just want to make sure I have that clear.
Our next question comes from the line of Frank Mitsch of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I've got some good news for you guys.
Your forecast on insulation sales are probably light given how cold my house is without power.
So a lot of people here in the Northeast are going to be buying a lot of insulation so I think I'm going to goose my numbers there so that's good news for Huntsman.
Frank you have polyurethane spray insulation in your attic? Obviously if he's not freezing he's warm.
You got that damn pink stuff in your attic.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes I'm getting rid of the pink stuff and going with the spray foam absolutely.
Hey keeping on the topic of TiO2 your prices were up 15% sequentially in the third quarter.
We've heard from some others that they are anticipating prices up in Q4.
Do have a feel on how much pigment prices might be up in the fourth quarter relative to the third quarter? Well we -- from the third quarter we announced the $450 a ton increase and about 50% of that has been achieved and we're still fighting in certain areas for it and so forth.
But again a 50% increase $450 a ton that's a pretty solid increase.
LLC Research Division</strong> So 50% has already been achieved great.
And on the Performance Products area you did talk a little bit about the LIFO impact there with raw materials and obviously ethane costs are up here in the fourth quarter.
Would you anticipate a material negative LIFO impact in Q4 in that segment? I wouldn't expect that to be material in the fourth quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right great.
And then lastly obviously you bought back 4 million shares that if my math's correct at a price $0.07 above where the stock is trading right now.
Actually it's been in rising as we've been talking here.
What sort of expectations should we have on the completion of that -- the timing of the completion of that share repurchase program? I think again I don't want to get out in front of our board Frank but our board continues to believe that our stock is undervalued and we will continue to follow the direction of the board as far as buying additional shares going forward.
So I think that it would be unfair for me at this point to try to say what the last 50 million of that how that will be spent and so forth.
Our next question comes from the line of Laurence Alexander of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess first question just on pension funding do you plan on making a pension contribution in the fourth quarter? I think it would be modest.
I think it's roughly $15 million.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
On TiO2 just want to triangulate a little bit on the fierce comments that you've made on the fourth quarter.
Given how much de-stocking occurred this quarter do you expect volumes to be down sequentially just with seasonality offsetting the impact of the de-stocking? Yes I think that again in the fourth quarter we are expecting and seeing a combination of seasonality which is what we see every fourth quarter.
That shouldn't be coming as a surprise.
And with the increases in pricing that we see you will see de-stocking taking place in the fourth quarter particularly in Asia.
I think the supply lines and this is probably -- I don't want to be too general here but I think this is probably typical in a lot of chemicals not just TiO2.
Between suppliers and customers in North America and Europe you typically have a few middlemen traders distributors and so forth and supplies inventories from what I see.
Just anecdotally and this would be for TiO2 but also for other products.
You'd see very little inventories particularly in North America.
I think between the producers and the customers inventories are very low right out.
Typically in China where you have a lot of distributors you have a lot of brokers you have a middlemen if you will.
You have more inventory built into the system in Asia and you have greater room for de-stocking that typically goes on for 2 to 3 months.
And typically that happens during the fourth quarter and usually typically ends sometime around Chinese New Year which is in the latter or middle part of January.
Now again that's been pretty typical in the chemical industry for about the last 5 to 10 years now.
I'm not saying that anything is all that revolutionary.
I think that we would be seeing many of those same trends taking place in TiO2.
We will see in the fourth quarter both seasonality taking place inventories will be built up in the season and you'll also see some de-stocking taking place.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Now would the impact of the incremental margins on the de-stocking be enough to offset the price increases that you've put through so that net-net your margins will be down sequentially? I think that your margins are going to most likely remain stable and your volumes are what are going to be going down.
Margins if anything in the fourth quarter with the announced price increases and everything may well be going up.
But again on seasonality and de-stocking with volumes going down the health of the product per ton naturally will increase in the fourth quarter.
But it's going to be the volume being down the fourth quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly just quickly as you think about the raw material profile for next year given the rise in ore prices do you think in aggregate your raw materials will be a source for use of working capital next year? In this particular end of the business I think...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> No sorry I guess I just mean across the entire portfolio? Across the entire portfolio it would all depend on what happens with raw materials in general.
I mean in the last couple of months we've seen benzine prices and natural gas prices crude prices by and large trending downward.
And should that continue through 2012 that should be freeing up working capital for us.
Our next question comes from the line of Gregg Goodnight of UBS.
Research Division</strong> It's tough being in the back in the queue with so many good questions asked by my colleagues.
But could I ask about MDI you noted the weakness in Asia.
My question is have you been able to hold MDI prices up in North America and Europe in October November with the weakening of benzine or MDI prices drifting downward? There certainly is pressure to move downward but demand I would that as we look at demand the areas if you would've asked me 6 months ago what's the region that would most surprise me from what we've actually seen it would be the America.
And I think that as you look at the U.S.
economy personally just my personal gut is that the U.S.
economy is doing better than the numbers we'll bear out.
And I would very much hope that as we see benzine prices go lower that this ought to be an opportunity to expand on MDI prices in the European and U.S.
markets.
Now again a lot of that will depend on what we see over the course of the next couple of months in Europe which if you look at the trends in the stock market in the last 6 or 7 trading sessions where we've gone up hundreds of points per hour almost depending on what's going on in Europe.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Second question you mentioned that you're expanding 40 000 tons in titanium dioxide.
Could you remind us what the timing is on that and why isn't that a bigger number? Are you just bottlenecked in your plants? Well these tend to be older plants and the de-bottlenecks that could be done for the most part have been done and it's pretty pricey to get tons out of these plants.
And I think that's the case for all of the facilities around the world of our competitors as well.
And so 40 000 tons really comes over 3 years and multiple plants and they tend to be $2 500 a ton kind of de-bottleneck opportunities.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So what is your expectation say next year? Will you get a significant chunk of that or is it further down the line? I think it is probably further down the line.
I think as we look at our TiO2 business and one thing that I mentioned in the call that I hope was picked up is the real shift that we've seen in the Huntsman business this is beyond the industry changes in the Huntsman business of moving towards more specialty oriented grades.
And I would hope that as we look at the business profile in 2012 versus 2010 that we are more profitable per ton in comparison to the rest of the industry because of the transformation that we are taking in moving our tonnage into higher-quality higher-margin more consistent margins end use applications and being less dependent on just 1 or 2 large macro applications.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last question if I could.
In terms of ore security of supply a major consultant has projected a shortfall in ore supply in say 3 to 5 years and recently a competitor of yours has made a move to back-ended [ph] grade of ore.
My question to you is will you be able to get ores to sustain your operating rates in say a couple of years? I mean what are you doing to assure that you're going to have access to ores? We have strong contracts that are in place today.
We continue to have to multiple suppliers and multiple sourcing.
Again I'm just speaking in my personal opinion here.
I think that there's been a lot of hype about titanium ores.
Titanium -- the demand for titanium ores are only going to grow as fast as the TiO2 industry.
And I don't see that the titanium ore producers all of them obviously are looking a number of them at least are looking at expansion de-bottlenecks and where they can get their last ton just like TiO2.
I struggled to see a scenario where ore supplies somehow diminish in the coming years and supply demand for TiO2 substantially increases and we're running around trying to figure out where we'd pick up ore.
I just -- I don't buy that scenario and I have a tough time seeing how that comes about.
I think we're going to continue to be well positioned to continue to receive a wide variety of grades of ores from a number of suppliers.
And if anything this should work to our advantage.
And I know I have said this before but I believe that these assets of Huntsman comparison to the rest of the industry I don't think that there is another supplier or another global quality TiO2 producer out there that's able to buy as much ilmenite and processes as much ilmenite as we do.
And the diversity of that supply I think is going to be a unique advantage to Huntsman.
Is there another question operator? Yes sir.
Our next question comes from the line of Bill Hoffman of RBC Capital Markets.
Peter you mentioned before you just talked about sort of the normal seasonality in inventory just talking about this sort of 20% into the fourth quarter.
I just wonder if we could -- we obviously talked a lot about TiO2.
But if you look at the other businesses Polyurethanes Performance Product Advanced Materials et cetera how are you guys planning this year end versus normal year end just given the amount of uncertainty out there? And I'd also be curious what you're hearing from your customers as far as their outlook going into next year? Well I think that that's a very difficult question to answer and I'm not trying to be evasive.
We have seen orders long-term orders.
So if I'm in October ordering for November where I'm ordering 2 months in advance we've seen those orders have diminished.
Where short-term orders where I'm in November ordering for November delivery those orders have increased.
And so what that tells me isn't that people is necessarily buying less product but the people are waiting for the last moment.
People are running low on inventories.
Again this is not in every product in every market around the world.
There's not a lot of long-term vision out there that we're seeing from our customers.
I think that fourth quarter for us as you look over the last 5 or 6 years with Huntsman and with the industry in general you typically see third quarter is one of the stronger quarters of the year fourth quarter is usually down around 20% in EBITDA.
And I'm not sure that ours would be too dissimilar to that.
Ahead of seasonality.
So in addition to sort of the typical seasonality we have been more aggressive in reducing our inventory levels given the uncertainty in the world.
Okay.
And then the second question is really for you Kimo just with regards to CapEx still targeting this 350 for the year means a really big fourth quarter.
But as you look into next year as you finish off some of these projects can you give us some guidance on what you're thinking about for next year? Yes I think we'll probably spend close to depreciation next year.
Okay.
And most of that are sort of front-end weighted like I say as you finish some of these projects you're working on? The way we -- the pattern every year of our capital is really back-end weighted and I think that will continue to be the case where we budget and it just takes a while to be able to get those projects up and going.
And typically we spend more in the second half of the year.
We also have a process internally where as the year progresses that we reapprove if you will internally those projects.
So if the economy should flow for some reason or if there are some reason why we don't want to go forward with those we also take that into account as well.
Operator why don't we take one more question here before wrapping it up.
Our next question comes from the line of Bill Young.
It's Bill Young from ChemSpeak.
On the Textile Effects business there have been restructurings and shifting this production doing this and doing that for years now and it seems like it's been really tough to generate a return.
I realize what you said that while we expect to have $70 million annual cost savings after a couple of years as a run rate but tell me is it worth staying in the business.
It seems like it's been a real challenge long term and if you don't get the $70 million you just have to question why Huntsman stays in the business? Bill thank you for the question.
I think management needs to explore all ways to fix the business and to possibly exit the business.
As we explore those alternatives if we can affect the business we got to affect it we got a change it and that's what we're doing here.
With these kinds of margins I'm sure you would understand that it's probably not the easiest business to sell.
Well at some point maybe someone has to bite the bullet.
Second the epoxy business.
It doesn't sound like it's doing that well.
Underlying everything what could be better or what are the issues that are confronting the epoxy business right now.
Well I think that if we look at the epoxy business.
The epoxy business is doing much better than perhaps the numbers would suggest and as I said in my prepared remarks I think that 2012 will be an improvement over 2011 as we are increasing our volumes our sales.
I think that as we look at the delays that they've taken in supplying products to the avionics aviation industry and so forth.
I think that the business is about $20 million $25 million less on its last 12 months since I've looked at it.
It's about $25 million below its average 150 EBITDA run rate.
And we've taken about $20 million-ish or so in the last 12 months of a currency hit on that.
We've also cut $20 million and we believe I think going forward we're going to lessen our exposure to the Swiss franc.
But I remain very bullish on this particular business.
I think we've got the right management team in place.
I think that we are getting our cost structures rapidly put into place and I think that our aggressiveness in moving volume particularly moving into the higher end to the aviation industry and so forth again I think that as I look into 2012 and I rarely make forecast going into a year out I think that this business is going to be materially improved in the next 12 months.
Thank you very much Bill.
And again I would just emphasize what I said in my prepared remarks.
As I look across the board at our businesses here it does appear that capacity even with a rather anemic global growth that is taking place across the spectrum we see very little new capacity that's coming on globally.
And I think that as we look out over the next couple of years I think we remain to be very optimistic about the macro trends that we're seeing.
So Bill thank you very much for your question.
With that I think that we'll thank you all for joining us.
And operator that should conclude our call.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2011 Huntsman Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Gina and I will be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today's conference Mr.
Kurt Ogden Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Thank you Gina and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Huntsman's Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
Joining us on the call today are Jon Huntsman Executive Chairman and Founder; Peter Huntsman President and CEO; and Kimo Esplin Executive Vice President and CFO.
This morning before the market opened we released our earnings for the fourth quarter and full year 2011 via press release and posted it on our website huntsman.com.
We also posted a set of slides on our website which we intend to use on the call this morning in the discussion of our results.
During this call we may make statements about our projections or expectations for the future.
All such statements are forward-looking statements and while they reflect our current expectations they involve risks and uncertainties and are not guarantees of future performance.
You should review our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for more information regarding the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these projections or expectations.
We do not plan on publicly updating or revising any forward-looking statements during the quarter.
In addition we may also refer to non-GAAP financial measures.
You can find reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in our earnings release posted on our website at huntsman.com.
As we refer to earnings we will be referring to adjusted EBITDA which is EBITDA adjusted to exclude the impact of discontinued operations restructuring impairment and plant closing costs income and expense associated with the terminated merger and related litigation acquisition-related expenses certain legal and contract settlement costs losses from early extinguishment of debt gain on consolidation of variable interest entity and losses and gains on disposition and acquisitions of businesses and assets.
Starting in the fourth quarter 2011 we no longer exclude unallocated foreign exchange gains and losses in adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income or loss per share.
We believe this more accurately reflects the ongoing cost of operating a global business.
All relevant information for prior periods has been recast to reflect these changes.
A reconciliation of EBITDA adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income or loss can be found in the appendix of our slides and in our fourth quarter earnings release.
Let's turn to Slide 2.
In our earnings release this morning we reported fourth quarter 2011 revenue of $2 632 000 000 adjusted EBITDA of $243 million and adjusted earnings per share of $0.28 per diluted share.
Our adjusted EBITDA was $243 million in the fourth quarter 2011 compared to $219 million in the prior year an increase of 11%.
Our adjusted EBITDA decreased compared to the prior quarter of $346 million primarily due to seasonality and customer de-stocking.
I will now turn the call over to Peter Huntsman our President and CEO.
Thank you Kurt.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for taking the time to join us.
Let's turn to Slide #3.
Adjusted EBITDA for our Polyurethanes division for the fourth quarter of 2010 was $79 million.
Sales volume for our MDI products increased 6% in 2011 compared to the prior year supporting our assumption that MDI will continue to grow at a multiple of underlying GDP.
Demand slowed in the fourth quarter as we saw customers' slow purchases consistent with seasonality and accentuated by customer de-stocking throughout the value chain.
The primary challenge for this business right now is improving its MDI contribution margins.
Price increases have been announced for the first quarter which will partially offset the increased cost of benzene.
We expect additional price increases in the first half of 2012 will expand margins.
Propylene oxide and its coproduct MTBE performed very well in 2011 though margins did contract in the fourth quarter consistent with year-end seasonality.
We continue to see favorable strong Latin American demand for MTBE combined with an attractive spread between Brent Crude which has an impact on MTBE pricing and North American natural gas which drives certain MTBE costs.
We expect strong margins to continue in 2012.
By reducing our fixed costs aggressively increasing prices to offset raw materials and taking advantage of our low-cost energy in the U.S.
we expect higher earnings in 2012 and 2011 for this business primarily driven by expanding MDI and Polyurethanes' system margins.
This business has more upside potential than any other within our company.
Turning to Slide 4.
In the fourth quarter our Performance Products division earned $60 million of adjusted EBITDA.
Approximately 2/3 of the production capacity for this business is located along the U.S.
Gulf Coast giving us a unique cost advantage where over 60% of our raw materials and manufacturing costs are natural gas liquids.
As a result earnings for upstream intermediate products have remained high through 2011.
We have seen demand pressure in our downstream specialties products most notably in amines.
This was most prominent in the Asia Pacific region primarily due to a reduction in government spending on infrastructure projects.
Increased supply for ethyleneamines has come online within the last year which puts further downward pressure on volumes and margins.
We believe it will take a while for the industry to adjust to the new amines capacity but we expect demand and margins to steadily improve from fourth quarter levels.
We expect 2012 earnings for Performance Products to be similar to 2011.
However unlike the past 3 quarters where adjusted EBITDA has softened I expect our EBITDA to increase throughout the year's capacity tightens and new demand in Asia and the growing energy sector take effect.
Let's turn to Slide #5.
Adjusted EBITDA in our Advanced Materials division was $15 million in the fourth quarter.
The foreign currency impact from a stronger Swiss franc had the effect of decreasing our EBITDA by an estimated $4 million in the quarter compared to the prior year.
Approximately 40% of the cash fixed cost for our Advanced Materials business are denominated in Swiss francs.
In the fourth quarter we announced a global restructuring program and expect $20 million of annual savings.
We expect to see the full run rate savings in mid-2012.
End-market demand within the Asia Pacific wind energy market has softened and increased competition has put margin pressure on the business.
Partially offsetting this trend we saw demand increase 19% globally within the aerospace and defense markets compared to the prior year accompanied by higher margins.
Like other divisions our Advanced Materials division will also implement a number of self-help items to minimize their FX exposure grow value and expand North American capacity.
I fully expect our earnings to strengthen throughout the year.
Turning to Slide #6.
Our Textile Effects division reported an adjusted EBITDA loss of $22 million in the fourth quarter.
Sales volumes decreased 7% compared to the prior year and are down more than 30% from demand levels in the fourth quarter of 2007.
Approximately 2/3 of our business is oriented towards natural fiber products such as cotton and wool.
And although demand for synthetic fibers has improved modestly demand for home textiles such as cotton sheets cotton towels and cotton apparel remains weak.
The foreign currency impact from a stronger Swiss franc have the effect of decreasing our EBITDA by an estimated $5 million in the quarter compared to the prior year.
Approximately 50% of the cash fixed cost of our Textile Effects business are denominated in Swiss francs.
We announced aggressive restructuring plans for this business in the fourth quarter but don't expect to see meaningful benefits until the second half of 2012.
The first half of 2012 will be negatively impacted by fixed costs related to products transfers out of Switzerland by approximately $10 million.
We expect 2012 earnings to be better than 2011.
Let's turn to Slide #7.
Our Pigments division earned $145 million of adjusted EBITDA in the fourth quarter more than double the prior period of $71 million.
The earnings improvement was primarily driven by an increase in fourth quarter average selling price which increased 38% compared to the prior year and 7% compared to the third quarter in local currency terms.
We saw softer demand for TiO2 in the fourth quarter.
In addition to a seasonal decrease in demand we saw significant customer de-stocking particularly in the Asia Pacific region.
We expect there will be meaningful increases in the future cost of titanium bearing ores.
During 2012 we expect to benefit from certain ore supply contracts in our Pigments business that will effectively supply approximately 40% of our ore requirements at prices close to 2011 market levels which are significantly below current market prices.
The majority of these contracts will expire at the end of 2012 with the resulting benefits reflected through most of the first quarter of 2013.
These contracts did not materially benefit our Pigments business in 2011.
We will also try and offset the increases in direct cost with additional price increases.
We expect 2012 earnings for this business to be less than 2011.
Before sharing some concluding thoughts I'd like to turn a few minutes over to Kimo Esplin our Chief Financial Officer.
Thanks Peter.
Let's turn to Slide 8.
Let's begin by addressing some items that impacted our earnings during the quarter.
We expect our long-term effective tax rate to be approximately 30% to 35%.
Our 2011 and 2010 full year effective tax rates were less than this primarily due to tax valuation allowances in countries like the U.K.
France and Spain where we have meaningful pigment operations.
Tax valuation allowances have the effect of lowering and in some cases eliminating the tax effect in the P&amp;L from these respective countries.
Correspondingly we have valuation allowances in Textile Effects-intense countries notably Switzerland that are currently generating pretax losses where we are not able to book income tax benefits increasing our effective tax rates.
In short the effective tax rate is highly dependent on the country-by-country mix of profits and losses in Europe.
In the fourth quarter we were required to recognize a partial release of tax valuation allowances which have the effect of decreasing our effective income tax rate.
As indicated in our press release this morning this had the approximate benefit of $0.04 per diluted share on the fourth quarter 2011 results.
For the most part we use the weighted average cost method for valuing our inventories.
However approximately 10% of our inventories are accounted for using the LIFO cost method.
Although LIFO primarily relates to inventories in our Performance Products business we account for the movements in LIFO reserves within our corporate segment.
Movements in LIFO reserves are included in our adjusted earnings.
LIFO costs have been a headwind for the most of the year until the fourth quarter when we saw a moderation in raw materials.
During 2011 we recognized $21 million of LIFO charges.
Approximately 10% of our fixed costs are denominated in Swiss franc.
Most of our Swiss-based production is sold in euros.
And so long as the euro and the Swiss franc move in unison against the U.S.
dollar there's generally a natural hedge.
In our Advanced Materials and Textile Effects businesses the foreign currency impact from a stronger Swiss franc have the effect of decreasing our EBITDA by an estimated $57 million in 2011 compared to the prior year.
Turning to Slide 9.
In the fourth quarter 2011 our adjusted EBITDA increased to $243 million from $219 million in the prior year.
The primary reason for this year-over-year increase was an improvement in margins as increased selling prices more than compensated for the increase in raw material costs.
Improved margins were partially offset by a decrease in sales volumes and an increase in SG&amp;A and other indirect costs including foreign currency movements against the U.S.
dollar.
Compared to the third quarter of 2011 our fourth quarter adjusted EBITDA decreased from $346 million to $243 million.
As Peter mentioned in his review of the businesses fourth quarter seasonal demand trends were accentuated by customer de-stocking.
Our average selling price was negatively impacted by foreign currency movements in all of our divisions with the exception of Textile Effects.
Although we saw a moderation in raw material costs it was more than offset by a decrease in local currency average selling prices.
Slide 10.
Our year-over-year sales revenue for the fourth quarter increased 9% primarily as a result of higher average selling prices.
We had more sales from our North American region than any other during the quarter.
Sales in this market increased 14%.
We saw an increase of 6% in Europe where 29% of our revenues came from.
The Asia Pacific region which made up 20% of our total revenues decreased 7% in large part due to customer de-stocking.
Our rest of world category which includes emerging markets such as Central and South America and the Middle East saw the most growth compared to the prior year of 31%.
This category made up 18% of our total sales.
Our largest divisions Polyurethanes Performance Products and Pigments which account for approximately 80% of our revenue recorded revenue increases of 10% 8% and 21% respectively.
In total our average selling prices improved 12% while our sales volumes declined 4%.
Compared to the prior quarter consolidated revenues decreased 12%.
This was primarily due to decrease in sales volume consistent with normal seasonality and again accentuated by customer de-stocking in the fourth quarter.
We also saw a decrease in average selling prices within our Polyurethanes and Performance Products divisions for reasons Peter discussed in his remarks.
On to Slide 11.
At the end of the quarter we had approximately $1 billion of cash and unused borrowing capacity.
During the fourth quarter of 2011 we saw a release of cash invested in primary working capital of more than $200 million.
The trend was consistent with the year-end seasonality and amplified by lower production volumes due to customer de-stocking.
During the last 2 years we have seen inflationary pressure on our raw material and energy costs.
The majority of our raw material feedstocks are derived from crude.
The average cost of crude increased approximately 20% and 30% in 2011 and 2010 compared to the prior year.
Our days outstanding for primary working capital components remain in line with historical averages.
We don't expect to see the same magnitude of inflationary pressure on raw materials in 2012 that we saw in 2011 and 2010.
In 2011 we redeemed approximately $305 million of our senior subordinated notes including all of our remaining 6.875% senior subordinated euro notes due 2013 worth approximately $94 million which were redeemed during the fourth quarter.
As we generate additional free cash flow we will continue to look for opportunities to reduce our outstanding leverage.
We spent $327 million on net capital expenditures during 2011.
In 2012 we expect to spend approximately $425 million on capital expenditures which approximates our annual depreciation and amortization.
Significant projects in 2012 include further investment in our MDI manufacturing technology a new magnesium sulfate fertilizer facility at our Calais France Pigments location and the establishment of a new Asian technology center in Shanghai China.
I'll now turn the rest of the time over to Peter.
Thank you Kimo.
2011 ended as the most profitable year in our history while operating the businesses that we now own.
We paid down our debt.
We had a record year with our safety and environmental performance and we expanded our businesses around the world.
We also ended 2011 with one of the slowest fourth quarters our industry has globally experienced.
Between economic uncertainty tight credit in Asia and wavering consumer confidence customers lowered their inventories and operated with as little working capital as possible.
While 6 weeks into 2012 does not give us ample time to judge the entire year I am encouraged by what I'm seeing across the board compared to this past quarter.
Again it's too early to tell if demand has improved due to restocking of inventory prebuying ahead of rising raw material costs or improving economic conditions but compared to the past quarter we are seeing improved demand across the board.
Aside from macroeconomic improvements we are projecting throughout 2011 you have heard me outlined with each business initiatives to better control our foreign currency exposure lower our fixed cost open new markets and increase value.
As I've said in past calls most of our divisions are capable of earning substantially more than what they did during the fourth quarter and 2011.
I believe that our Pigments division will be under margin pressure this year as we absorb record raw material increases in titanium ores.
At the same time from what I see now improvements in our other businesses should offset the pressure we expect in our Pigments business.
I expect 2012 to look similar to 2011 but with stronger earnings from more of our division.
In short 2011 was a great year but I believe the best is yet to come.
With that I'll turn the time back over to Kurt Ogden.
Thank you Peter.
Gina we're now prepared to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Kevin McCarthy with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Peter your macro view sounds reasonably positive here entering 2012 and yet if I look at your EBITDA comments across the segments several of them are flat-to-down.
And so I guess 2 questions.
Number one why is that since you're coming off of pretty low volumes in the fourth quarter why would you not expect some improvement there volumetrically in terms of operating leverage? And then number two if you roll up all of these segments and net it out what is your all-in total company EBITDA direction in 2012 please? Well I think that our all-in EBITDA direction 2012 is quite similar to 2011.
I would say though that what I'm seeing on a division-by-division basis as we look at the last 6 months of 2011 I believe that there was a great deal of inventory de-stocking that took place.
I believe that the slowdown particularly in the fourth quarter that you saw a slowdown in demand that was much greater than what the overall economies were experiencing globally.
I also believe that around the world that supply chains and inventory levels now again this is not in every customer and in every product but generally I believe that inventory levels with our customers for virtually well for certainly the vast majority of our products is at a very very low level.
And I think that as we start looking at order patterns into 2012 I'm encouraged by what I see particularly in North America.
Europe continues to surprise me.
I think every morning you wake up that Europe is on the brink of an economic cataclysmic wreck and yet the overall demand in Europe continues to be I would say quite stable.
As I look at Asia and I'm speaking here really in the last 2 weeks because as you know the Chinese New Year ended in the end of January so I'm looking at relatively recent developments I believe that China is reentering the market.
And as we look at some of the macro trends particularly where we directly supply customers we're starting to see a pickup in that customer demand.
So that gives me -- as I sit here today and I look at the direction of 2012 again bear in mind we're 6 weeks into 2012 but as I look at 2012 today I feel better than I did 6 weeks ago about 2012.
And I certainly feel better about 2012 than I did in our last quarter call 3 months ago.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just to follow up Peter if I may you've been forthright that you anticipate lower margins and lower profits in TiO2 Pigment what has changed there? Has the market loosened materially in your views such -- that it's going to be difficult for producers to fully recover some of the cost increases among titanium-bearing ores? Well again I think that hopefully we've been very consistent.
We were talking again about third quarter performance.
We were talking about getting somewhere between 50% and 75% of our prices that we were shooting for at that time.
And I think that we achieved in the third quarter throughout the fourth quarter probably the lower end of that range that we gave.
As we look at the pricing initiatives we have announced in the first quarter I think that we will be able to capture a chunk of that price increase.
It's too early to tell.
I'm not pessimistic about TiO2.
And I've said in the past I don't believe that TiO2 is necessarily going to peak as much as it's going to plateau.
And I think that that plateau is going to be somewhat choppy.
As TiO2 producers take in raw material increases they will be trying to offset those increases with various price increases for TiO2.
And they won't necessarily always be corresponding on a quarterly basis price increases for TiO2 to exactly offset their raw material cost increases.
And so you're going to see some quarters that may be down and some quarters that are going to be up from -- up sequentially.
I think it's going to be choppy.
I think again am I -- are we going to see this sort of increase in profitability year-over-year in TiO2 in 2012 that we saw in 2011? No I don't think so.
But I am a lot more bullish on the other ends of our businesses the other divisions that have taken and I have announced in this call something close between the last 2 calls close to $100 million of costs that will be taken out of our company this year.
I believe that that's a fairly -- that's a very conservative number.
I believe that we have taken steps to offset some of the exposure that we have in foreign currency.
And as I look across the board in the other divisions I'm confident that those other divisions will offset any sluggishness that we see in TiO2.
But again I want to be very clear I'm not bearish on TiO2 for this next year.
As much as I just think it's going to be a year where the paint companies have publicly announced that they're going to be trying to ship as much chloride to sulfate capacity.
They're going to be trying to put in as much Chinese and other Asian capacities as they can.
I don't think they'll be as successful as they think they will.
But it's going to be a battle throughout the year.
And I think it's going to be something of a plateau.
Your next question comes from the line of Laurence Alexander with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess 2 questions.
First as you think about your -- if you're EBITDA will be roughly flattish in 2012 can you walk through some of the steps down to your free cash flow? Like how much of a working capital you think you'll be using? And what you think the corporate and unallocated run rate will be for 2012? Sure.
You asked a tough question Lawrence because working capital really is a -- it depends on what your views on energy prices are going to be.
Again we consume benzene we consume butane all of those are derivatives of crude and natural gas.
So if you assume energy prices and raw materials are somewhat flat and of course we have to set aside ore because ore will increase we will consume some working capital but not nearly what we have been consuming over the last 3 years.
We've outlined what we thought capital expenditures would be so that's right around depreciation $425 million.
Cash interest is going to be right around $220 million.
And we've said the taxes will be right around that 30% mark.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And secondly on Polyurethanes can you flush out a little bit your comments on expectations? They're like -- it sounds as if you're positioning for a back-end loaded year and just wanted to see if we can tease out how you think the demand recovery will ramp up? And then at what point you will be at a crossover to recouping the margin loss to raw materials? I'm very -- I've got high expectations for Polyurethanes this year and I don't think that it is particularly back-end loaded.
As I look at MDI I think that we are going out some very aggressive price increases and I think that the first 2 quarters of the year is going to be very vital for us.
As I look at benzene from the fourth quarter to where we finished the fourth quarter with an average price of around $3.20 per gallon.
Benzene today is just over $4 a gallon.
That's going to put a cost on the business so we've got to get our prices up here in the first quarter going into the second quarter about $0.10-plus per pound.
And with the pricing initiatives that we've announced that we are going to be continuing to announce and pushing throughout the first and second quarter I'm confident that we can stay at or ahead of this very high benzene prices.
And so no I don't believe that as I talk about the optimism that I have for 2012 I don't personally believe that this is a back-end loaded.
I think that the first 2 quarters as a matter of fact are going to be very vital to us.
And I believe that the demand that we're seeing the order patterns that we're seeing and the pricing initiatives that we have are going to be reflective as much in the first 2 quarters as the last 2 quarters.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Koort with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> This is Brian Maguire on for Bob.
I think Kimo I think last quarter on the conference call you mentioned that ore cost might be up as much as 100% in 2012.
And it sounds like now the impact of your legacy contracts will shield you from some of that impact in 2012.
But as you look out to 2013 is that the kind of impact you're expecting to have on your pigment costs from the ore cost please? Our comments last quarter around our ore costs on a TiO2 per ton basis doubling that included our view on our contracts.
So we think the market will increase in fact more than that.
Remember when we talk about ore prices that you're talking about multiple different grades of ores going into multiple technologies of TiO2 production.
And so for us today to try to forecast what impact that will have in 2013 I think that you will see a doubling of ore prices does not translate equally across the board of x dollars per ton impact on the business.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
But without the legacy contracts it would be more than -- it would more than double in 2012? Absolutely.
And we've said we think that we would expect that most of the industry would have similar contracts.
So there's this notion of market.
And then there is this -- what we're going to experience and probably our peers will experience in terms of ore pressure.
But we do have contracts like again everyone does I think through 2012 and 2013.
And you're right if we didn't have those contracts our ore cost would go up more than the two-fold that we're talking about.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And could you also talk about what kind of volume assumptions you have for pigments in 2012? I think you maybe mentioned that overall the EBITDA will be down and part of that is the cost inflation.
But volumes kind of tailed off a little bit in the back half of 2011.
Some of the paint companies had mentioned that they're no longer worried about availability and they're not going to have the same level of inventory build early in 2012.
How do you kind of see overall volumes shaking out? Our effective capacity is right around 500 000 tons and we have operated at that level for several years.
So I think you should expect that we will operate again right around 500 000 tons which we did in 2011 and the prior year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just -- I might sneak one last one in what are some of the big components driving the significantly higher CapEx in 2012? Well we outlined a few things.
I don't know that spending depreciation is a big number.
I think we would like to target on average over 10 years.
Roughly depreciation in the last 3 years we have significantly underspent depreciation.
So there are several very great return projects that we're spending on.
I think I mentioned we're doing some things in TiO2 not in terms of de-bottlenecking capacity but adding some fertilizer capacity.
We have a new just recently announced technology center in Shanghai and we're growing I think all of our businesses including amines and MDI.
Aside from the EH and -- environmental health and safety on CapEx next year I think there's a good mix between growth projects and efficiency projects.
So the fertilizer business in TiO2 what in the world are we getting the fertilizer for in TiO2? What's the byproduct of a sulfate process that is going to greatly reduce our cost for producing TiO2? And I wouldn't say that that necessarily is a growth project but it's certainly going to be a margin-enhancing project.
And so we have -- we think multiple opportunities such as that as well as growth projects around the world.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Ritzenthaler with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> My first question is after meeting with the renewable energy team within Brazil's influential Embrapa organization last week in Brasilia it was clear to me that the policy tools being put into place for growing wind power over the next 3 to 4 years are staggering in Brazil.
They're trying to 3x their capacity.
How would you characterize Huntsman's position in the Brazilian market versus other markets in Asia and Europe and elsewhere for participation in these epoxies and specialty resins? I think in our epoxies business we have a warehouse.
We have blending facilities in Brazil.
And I think that we're able to compete in that market as well if not better than our peers.
And I think that wind market is probably not going to see the growth that it has the last couple of years.
And so -- but I think in China in places like Brazil and so forth I think that it's -- there's going to be opportunity.
And I think that speaks well for the global footprint that we have of our business.
Whether that growth takes place in Brazil whether it takes place in China whether it takes place in Central Asia we're going to be there to take advantage of it.
And windmills we play really in 2 areas.
One is in the resin for carbon fiber and the composites and the other is in amines which acts as a hardener or an additive in that process.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And then just to expand on amines I guess a little bit there.
ASPs are down year-over-year as well as volumes.
And you had highlighted in your prepared comments a little bit more about that.
I was wondering if you could expand a little bit more into the market dynamics there in terms of how much new capacity came online.
And looking out over the next couple of years is there more expected? And then maybe the geographic sort of the geographic breakdown there and how long it will take the market to normalize? Is it a 6 to 12 or a 12 to 18 kind of months event? Sure.
Well we have our facility in Jubail Saudi Arabia that came on in 2010.
We've seen Tosoh in Japan Akzo just recently in China and Delamine in the Netherlands bring on capacity.
It is really -- there are 5 players in this industry major players.
And we would expect that early on in 2012 that most of the players would pull back production and that the industry would come into balance.
But of everything that's been announced over the course that come on certainly 2/3 if not more than that of the announced capacity is already in the market.
So we will not -- certainly we'll not see as much new capacity coming in the market in the next 2 years as we saw in the past 2 years.
So I think from here on out we would expect the market to certainly be tightening.
Your next question comes from the line of P.J.
Juvekar with Citigroup.
This is Eric Petrie in for P.J.
today.
First question would be in terms of pigments.
I'd like to get into a little more detail where you see inventory levels geographically? You referred anecdotally that your inventory levels are higher and that first quarter '12 contracts are being settled at 1/4 of what producers have announced in terms of price increases? Any comments there? Yes first of all I don't know if you attributed my comments to saying that we were getting 1/4 of the price increases in the first quarter.
I did not say that.
We've announced a $330 a ton increase in the U.S.
$300 Europe $350 in APAC so pretty aggressive price increasing coming out in the first half and it's just too early to tell.
Do you get 100% of that? We've never got 100% of every price increases that we've put through in the TiO2 business but we believe that we'll get a portion of that.
And again it's too early to tell.
As we look at the TiO2 inventory levels our inventory levels have increased from the fourth quarter -- excuse me from the third quarter going into the fourth quarter by a few weeks.
And I imagine that the industry the preliminary industry data will show that that's probably pretty similar to the rest of the industry in general.
That should not be -- there are 2 things in mind one this time of the year we're always building TiO2 inventory even in the tightest of market conditions because of the slowness of construction seasonality and so forth.
And there was no doubt particularly in Asia in the first quarter a great deal of shifting of inventory that took place that typically is held by brokers and by distributors throughout the Asian markets that came back to the producers.
So I'm not sure that when you see the inventory numbers in the fourth quarter that they're necessarily accurate because I think in order to have a full picture of inventories that you need to be able to see the producer inventories and the customer inventories.
And in parts of Asia particularly China you've got to look at the producer inventories the broker's and distribution's inventories and the ultimate paint and coatings and ink and the ultimate consumers of TiO2.
And I think that when you iron out all of those inventory levels I'm not sure that you saw inventory grow as much as it grew with the producers.
I hope that makes sense.
I don't think that the inventory should be a sole indicator to the health of the overall pigments industry.
Okay that's helpful.
Just curious to reconcile with last quarter's comments.
You said that Huntsman was significantly below the industry average.
So I'm just trying to get a sense of -- did the industry inventory overall excluding Huntsman decline? The industry data that I have seen and I don't believe that it's complete data at this point would lead me to believe that the inventory levels have grown as they always do from the third to the fourth quarter.
Our inventory grew from the third and fourth quarter.
I don't believe that our ratio to the industry has changed during that time period.
So if we were significantly behind in the third quarter I feel comfortable again with the data that I have seen thus far that we remain significantly I might say significantly weeks plural behind the industry as far as number of days of inventory.
When he says behind meaning below.
Below right.
All right helpful.
And then my second question in Performance Products what kind of EBITDA benefit can we expect given that average quarter today at same prices have declined about 30% quarter-over-quarter? On the ethane side? Yes.
I think that most of that will be shown in the profitability of some of the upstream businesses.
But certainly in the amines businesses further downstream.
So I'm not sure exactly how to calculate FX.
We're not selling ethylene.
We don't sell the first line derivatives of ethylene ethylene oxide into the market.
Our ethane that we consume internally going into ethylene goes into literally hundreds of derivative products in the surfactants and the amines industry.
And I would hope that we would be able to over the course of next quarter or so to be able to capture certainly get part of that.
That's a business that we sort of ended the year on a softer note and we'll probably start the year a little softer in Performance Products.
But we think it's going to be a good year and it's going to be flat to up relative to 2011 EBITDA.
But as I said in my comments.
I agree with what Kimo said.
Directionally if you look at the last 3 quarters of Performance Products it has been sequentially down.
And I believe that it will be ramping back up in that other direction.
Your next question comes from the line of Frank Mitsch with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Peter just wanted to try and reconcile on the TiO2 on the volume side of things.
If you think about 2011 a pretty decent pace of business for the first 3 quarters and then some significant de-stocking particularly in Asia in the fourth quarter.
We've heard from another producer where they expect their volumes in 2012 to be higher than 2011 given that de-stocking and one would think that you would see some level of inventory restocking take place or at least see demands tick up a little bit.
So I'm just trying to reconcile why you would think that your volumes in TiO2 for 2012 would be essentially flat with 2011 unless you're forecasting another fourth quarter de-stock at the end of '12? Yes our volume is going to be more capacity-constrained.
Again we're going to be selling what we produce in Pigments as we have for the last 2 years or so Frank.
And I don't mean to be anything less than ebullient as you've say in talking about TiO2.
I would say that again the challenge is not going to be for Huntsman on the volume side we'll sell what we -- we'll sell all we can make.
The pressure is going to be on the pricing side.
And look if the demand is there and the pricing is there I'm not here hoping that margins are down.
I hope that we'd have another great year in TiO2 and I hope that we have higher margins hope that 2012 is substantially better than 2011.
I just think that there's going to be some -- whenever you see raw materials double in value and when you see your customers trying to move heaven and earth to minimize the consumption of the product you're producing those are typically forces that you've just got to take into account.
And I think that we're going to be extremely aggressive in our pricing and the products that we're taking in the market and expanding the value of our TiO2 business.
But at the same time I've and again we're going to sell everything that we can.
If there is a restocking that takes place early in the year that should bode well for the industry.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right terrific that's very helpful.
And just switching gears quickly you did talk about the ethane side of things benefiting Performance Products at least some of the downstream stuff.
But apparently you guys your venture with Sasol declared force majeure on maleic anhydride over in Germany.
Can you talk about what that impact might be for the first quarter? How long might that force majeure last? And any color around that will be helpful.
I think that it's just going to be a couple of weeks and I don't think it will be anything material to the bottom line.
I think we've got some inventory there.
We're going to be supplying customers as best we can out of our U.S.
operations and so forth.
So I wouldn't anticipate that there would be a material number there.
But until we're out of it and until we're back up and running we're doing everything we can to try to offset that.
I also just note Frank that you mentioned about the ethanes benefiting Performance Products.
Let's remember that I believe that those ethane economics are also going to benefit some of our other U.S.
manufacturing base as well.
I think like most companies in our segment we are going to be looking at 2012 very different than we may have looked at 18 months ago.
The first question I'm asked by our Board of Directors and I'm asking our directors and our managers in the businesses if you're building overseas with the cost advantage we have in the U.S.
why can't we bring that capacity back to the U.S.
and take advantage of the gas and so forth economics here? So I think that that's going to be as I've said in previous call I believe that the ethane economics and the natural gas economics utility cost and so forth this is going to be a game changer over time for the North American chemical industry and we're going to be in a position to take advantage of it.
And every one of our products we produce have a North American component to them and we're going to be looking as to how we can take advantage of that.
Your next question comes from the line of Andy Cash with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
First of all given the activity on the M&amp;A front should we expect that in the next 12 to 24 months we might see some product mix changes at Huntsman Chemical? Well look we're -- I don't think that we'd be talking about in a public forum right now what divisions we'd hope to sell off and so forth.
I think that it's been obvious in the past.
I have talked about in past calls that we would like to I believe the words I used is something on optionality with our Pigments business whether it's merging with another player buying with another player integrating and so forth.
We are always going to be looking on a division-by-division basis.
I believe that there's room for consolidation through mergers and so forth in surfactants and Textile Effects across the board.
And with the large number of shareholders that we have on our Board of Directors and representing our families and so forth we are going to be looking at every option that we can to create shareholder value while at the same time building a great business here.
So as to your question I think that we spend an appropriate amount of our time looking at M&amp;A opportunities and potential activities.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Second question looking over at the MDI side of things could you say whether or not MDI margins so far in the first quarter are up year-over-year? And could you characterize how the margins may be developing in China versus the rest of the world? Well China is going to be -- again from very early preliminary indicators that I've seen I'm reluctant to say these sort of things so early in the quarter but I'm very encouraged by the demand trends that I'm seeing in China particularly in MDI.
And the reason I say particularly in MDI is we probably sell more product -- more MDI in China directly to customers.
And so if you see an improvement in demand that will take place in the automotive industry or in the furniture industry or what have you we have a tendency to see that earlier in the divisions where we sell directly to those customers because we'll see the demand very quickly.
Whereas if we're selling it to a distributor or a broker who's turning around selling the product you might see a month or 2 lag time from when the customers seeing an improvement the broker will then seen the improvement the distributor the sales agent and then you'll see the improvement.
So as I look at where we are today margin in China on MDI is going to be all around demand and in consumption improving.
And as I look at the early signs again as I look at January that was typically a sluggish month in China because of the Chinese New Year but as I look at the numbers in February thus far I believe that China's back in the market and buying and that gives me confidence that we'll be able to achieve some price increases.
We have announced a I believe it's a $0.10 per pound MDI price in the first quarter.
And I believe that that is going to -- we're out right now fighting for that and it's our intention to continue to look for higher prices in that business.
Research Division</strong> And Peter just sort of to clarify and then just finally I mean while demand sounds like it's coming back strongly are you concerned about any capacity increases in China either in the second half of last year or the first half of this year that might keep price a little in place there? No.
Well I'm always concerned about capacity coming into any market segment.
But I think that when I look at the number of projects particularly those projects that are being delayed it's -- I'm not overly concerned about it.
I think I said $0.10 price increase earlier MDI in the first quarter I should've said $0.15.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Zekauskas of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> There's a $34 million gain in the quarter pretax.
Where is that either in the segments or on the income statement where does that show up? So we sold our stereolithography business for $41 million.
That should be in other income and expense.
And that's included in adjusted EBITDA right Jeff? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Second question is benzene came down a lot in the fourth quarter and your volumes were flat year-over-year in urethanes.
So all things being equal why wasn't profitability a little bit better? Or what restrained it versus the previous year on the fourth quarter? It was -- if we look at fourth quarter in comparison to the third quarter even in comparison to the fourth quarter of last year it was essentially flat.
What constrained it was the lack of demand and the fall off that we saw particularly in Asia that we believe is coming back into the market.
We saw flat volumes so it was mostly volume Jeff.
Research Division</strong> So it sounds like there might have been a mix issue in the fourth quarter in urethanes is that right? No I think it was mostly just the lack of volume that was sold.
So from a volume standpoint urethanes was down from a demand standpoint PO/MTBE was up.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you talked about your TiO2 ore contracts repricing at the end of '12.
If you assume that they repriced today what would be the effect on -- or what would be the numerical effect on that business? It's really hard to tell Jeff because if they were to have been expiring right now we probably would have replaced those contracts sometime last year.
I mean it's our intention and our -- the design of the business to have a number of contracts going out as far as you can.
Now the duration that you're able to lock in those contracts is obviously shortened or has become tighter.
But if we just had to walk away from those contracts today and buy at the market price today I'm not sure I have that information in front of me.
Some of that has to do with what your view of 2012 ore prices are going to be and it's across several different grades.
On a mark-to-market basis as we've said today it's $100 million or more.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly you talked about how business was getting better sequentially.
So chemical railcar shipments in the U.S.
are pretty flat and China is just beginning to recover from the fourth quarter.
So is it fair to say that year-over-year volumes in general for the company for the first half over the first quarter are running a little bit down year-over-year? Or are they running a little bit up year-over-year? I wouldn't have the first 6 weeks versus the first...
Research Division</strong> Or whatever you have.
I think generally it's up.
The sentiment directionally it looks like it's up.
But yes I think the answer is it's up.
But I don't have the exact percentages on a division-by-division basis.
Okay here's your final question from Roger Spitz.
Research Division</strong> In Advanced Materials were you seeing any unit margin expansion given lower BPA and perhaps lower EPI cost? As we look at the contribution margin on a cents-per-pound basis fourth quarter versus fourth quarter on a year-over-year basis yes there's a slight margin expansion on that.
But again it's volumes in the fourth quarter that that mostly hit us.
Gina before we conclude the call today let me remind everyone that we'll be hosting an Investor Day on March 8 in New York City.
We invite anyone interested in attending to email us at ir@huntsman.com to register for the event.
And for those unable to attend in person the presentations will be webcast.
A link to the webcast will be available of course on our website at huntsman.com within the Investor Relations section.
But that concludes our comments today.
Thank you everyone for joining us.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2012 Huntsman Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Tahisha and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Kurt Ogden Huntsman Corporation's Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Tahisha and welcome to Huntsman's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
Joining us on the call today are Jon Huntsman Executive Chairman and Founder; Peter Huntsman President and CEO; and Kimo Esplin Executive Vice President and CFO.
This morning before the market opened we released our earnings for the first quarter 2012 via press release and posted it on our website huntsman.com.
We also posted a set of slides on our website which we intend to use on the call this morning in the discussion of our results.
During this call we may make statements about our projections or expectations for the future.
All such statements are forward-looking statements and while they reflect our current expectations they involve risks and uncertainties and are not guarantees of future performance.
You should review our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for more information regarding the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these projections or expectations.
We do not plan on publicly updating or revising any forward-looking statements during the quarter.
In addition we may also refer to non-GAAP financial measures.
You can find reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in our earnings release posted on our website at huntsman.com.
As we refer to earnings we will be referring to adjusted EBITDA which is EBITDA adjusted to exclude the impact of discontinued operations restructuring impairment plant closing and transition costs income and expense associated with the terminated merger and related litigation acquisition-related expenses certain legal and contract settlement costs losses on the early extinguishment of debt gain on consolidation of variable interest entity extraordinary gain or losses on the acquisition of a business and losses and gains on disposition and acquisition of businesses and assets.
A reconciliation of EBITDA adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income or loss can be found in the appendix of our slides and in our first quarter earnings release.
Let's start -- let's turn to Slide 2.
In our earnings release this morning we reported first quarter 2012 revenue of $2 913 000 000 adjusted EBITDA of $397 million and adjusted earnings per share of $0.74 per diluted share.
Our adjusted EBITDA was $397 million in the first quarter 2012 compared to $304 million in the prior year an increase of 31%.
Our adjusted EBITDA increased 63% compared to the prior quarter of $243 million.
I will now turn the call over to Peter Huntsman our President and CEO.
Thank you very much Kurt.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us.
Let's turn to Slide #3.
Adjusted EBITDA for our Polyurethanes division in the first quarter 2012 was $177 million an improvement of $63 million compared to the prior year of $114 million.
Sales volume for our MDI products increased 4% compared to the prior year.
We saw improved demand geographically in each of our regions and across the majority of our end market segments.
Despite troubling economic headlines we saw growth in Europe with stronger demand in Northern Europe where we sell the majority of our product far outweighing the negative impact of the recession-plagued Southern Europe.
We continue to see growing demand in U.S.
automotive and insulation.
The Southeast Asia ASEAN markets have countered the slowdown in growth that we are seeing in China.
We successfully raised our MDI selling prices in the quarter which increased our contribution margin though these increases were partially offset by an increase in the cost of benzene.
We expect further positive traction on our MDI average selling prices in the second quarter.
Propylene oxide and its co-product MTBE continue to perform very well primarily as a result of an attractive spread between premium gasoline and lower price natural gas-based raw material.
In the first quarter we saw exceptional margins in part due to industry supply outages.
Coupled with strong demand these outages led to an increase of approximately $55 million to $60 million compared to the prior year and prior quarter.
By the first 2 weeks of the second quarter most of these idle facilities had restarted so we do not expect this benefit to continue into the second quarter.
Turning to Slide #4.
In the first quarter our Performance Products division earned $90 million of adjusted EBITDA an increase of 50% compared to the prior quarter.
We believe that the demand for amines is improving and production from new industry supply is being absorbed into the market.
As a result we saw increased margin and an improvement in volumes compared to the prior quarter.
It will take a while however for the industry to ramp up to the profitable levels we enjoyed in early 2011.
Our margins of a year ago also had some benefits from industry outages that carried some short-term margin expansions.
We continue to invest in our Performance Products businesses.
We recently announced the increase of our North American ethylene oxide capacity by 250 million pounds to supply our growing downstream ethylene oxide derivative businesses.
This specific project represents one of the ways we are leveraging the North American low ethylene cost advantage to supply our downstream derivatives' business in amines and surfactants.
Our upstream businesses continue to perform well.
It's worth noting however that we look forward to the -- that as we look forward to the remainder of the year we will take our ethylene oxide unit down for planned maintenance in the third quarter of this year.
This maintenance is performed once every 4 years and we expect the EBITDA impact to be approximately $15 million.
Turning to Slide #5.
Adjusted EBITDA in the first quarter in our Advanced Materials division was $32 million.
We believe this business has hit an inflection point and its earnings are on an upward trajectory.
Demand for most of our products has improved with the modest exception -- or with the notable exception of the wind energy market in China which remains soft.
We are encouraged by the general demand trends.
North American demand was particularly strong in the first quarter.
Our SG&amp;A restructuring efforts are yielding benefits to the bottom line and are largely complete.
At our recent Investor Day we announced further restructuring that will benefit our annual manufacturing costs by approximately $15 million.
However we don't expect to see these benefits until the end of the year.
We continue to expect this division to earn a higher EBITDA than it did last year.
While it's early in the year we are encouraged by the signs that we are seeing to date.
During -- let's turn to Slide #6.
Our Textile Effects division reported an adjusted EBITDA loss of $9 million in the first quarter.
Sales volumes in the quarter were essentially unchanged compared to the prior year but improved 5% compared to the prior quarter.
Normal demand for this business is generally evenly split between the first and second halves of the year; however the second quarter is generally the strongest quarter.
We are encouraged by the positive U.S.
economic indicators related to consumer confidence in retail data but remain cautious with regards to our European markets.
Our $75 million restructuring plans are proceeding well but we don't expect to see meaningful benefits until the end of this year as we are operating 2 manufacturing platforms as we transition out of Switzerland.
Consistent with a seasonal uptick in demand we expect a small sequential improvement in our second quarter earnings.
Let's move on to Slide #7.
Our Pigments division earned $147 million of adjusted EBITDA in the first quarter a meaningful improvement from $87 million last year and on more of an earnings plateau when compared to the fourth quarter.
Adjusting for the impact of foreign currency and sales mix our first quarter average selling prices increased 36% compared to the prior year and 3% compared to the prior quarter.
Global demand for TiO2 was soft compared to the prior year exasperated by customer destocking in the Asia-Pacific region but increased sequentially versus the prior quarter.
We expect to see some improvement in demand in the second quarter with continued recovery in demand within North America and some improvement in Asia but remain cautious with regards to Europe.
We expect meaningful price increases for titanium-bearing ores throughout the year as inventories purchased at old rates are consumed and supply agreements are renewed.
This impact will be magnified in the second half of the year.
We expect to continue to raise our selling prices to offset these cost increases.
The success of these selling price increases will largely depend on demand and GDP growth.
Before sharing some concluding thoughts I'd like to turn a few minutes over to Kimo Esplin our Chief Financial Officer.
Thanks.
Let's turn to Slide 8.
In the first quarter 2012 our adjusted EBITDA increased to $397 million from $304 million in the prior year.
The primary reason for this year-over-year increase was an improvement in margins as increased selling prices more than compensated for the increase in raw material costs.
Sales volumes increased as we saw improved demand for some of our products and these improvements were partially offset by an increase in SG&amp;A and other indirect costs.
Compared to the fourth quarter of 2011 our first quarter adjusted EBITDA increased from $243 million to $397 million.
Much of the increase was the result of seasonal improvement in demand across most of our businesses.
Increased average selling prices in our Polyurethane and Pigments businesses led to increased margins.
Our raw material SG&amp;A and indirect costs were essentially the same.
Slide 9.
Our year-over-year sales revenue for the first quarter increased 9% primarily as a result of higher average selling prices.
The majority of our sales in the quarter came from North America and Europe which increased 5% and 15% respectively.
Sales revenue decreased in the Asia-Pacific region by 3% in large part due to customer destocking.
Whereas our Rest of World category which includes emerging markets such as Central and South America and the Middle East saw the most growth compared to the prior year of 21%.
Our Polyurethane and Pigments businesses which accounted for approximately 75% of our first quarter earnings recorded revenue increases of 17% and 16% respectively.
Notably our PO/MTBE revenue increased 33%.
In total our average selling price improved 7% adjusted for the impact of foreign currency while our sales volume increased 2%.
Compared to the prior year consolidated revenues increased 11%.
This is primarily due to an increase in sales volume consistent with normal seasonality.
Our average selling price adjusted for the impact of foreign currency increased 2% primarily as a result of increases in our Polyurethanes and Pigments businesses.
Let's go to Slide 10.
At the end of the quarter we had approximately $1.1 billion of cash and unused borrowing capacity.
During the first quarter of 2012 we redeemed approximately $86 million of our 7.5% senior subordinated notes due 2015 and repaid all of the approximately $27 million outstanding under our Australian credit facility.
During the period we also successfully completed an amendment of our senior secured credit facilities.
The amendment increased the capacity of our revolving credit facility to $400 million and extended the maturity of our revolving credit facility and $346 million of our term loan B facility from 2014 to 2017.
Recognizing the improvement in our earnings and debt reduction that has taken place thus far Moody's upgraded our corporate credit rating to Ba3 on March 14 followed by Standard &amp; Poor's who upgraded our credit rating to BB on April 26.
We reiterate our commitment to reducing our debt and furthering improving our credit profile.
Our target is to have sustainable net debt leverage of 2 to 2.5x EBITDA.
At the end of the first quarter our net debt leverage was 2.6x.
We spent $81 million on capital expenditures in the first quarter.
In 2012 we expect to spend between $425 million and $450 million on capital expenditures which approximates our annual depreciation and amortization.
Peter? Thank you Kimo.
First quarter 2012 was a record quarter for Huntsman Corporation.
Our earnings this past quarter demonstrated our unique balance of products and geographic locations.
Our main objective this year is to increase the margin of our differentiated chemistry.
While this company will continue to benefit from our North American gas advantage we still have real opportunity to improve profits from our MDI polyurethanes amines epoxies maleic and textile chemicals.
I continue to expect these businesses to have a stronger year than we did in 2011.
Our performance this past quarter demonstrates that focus and commitment.
We are not just determined to have an improvement in the quantity of our earnings this year but our quality as well.
Our earnings will obviously be impacted by global economic growth something that is out of our control.
However we will be focused on those items that we can control.
We will continue to expand our ability to increase North American production to take advantage of low-cost raw materials.
We will be expanding our chemistry and geographic reach to take advantage of growth in more markets and applications.
We will continue to control our costs and be even more competitive in this low-cost global market.
As I mentioned in our recent Investor Day we have nearly $200 million of cost improvement plans that are being completed or soon to start.
We will continue to strengthen our balance sheet and pay down debt.
2011 was a record year for Huntsman.
I feel better about our prospects for 2012 than I did 3 months ago when I last spoke to this group.
Most of the before-mentioned initiatives have been started but the impact will not be seen until the coming quarters.
While I'm very encouraged by this past quarter I'm even more enthusiastic about our future.
With that I'll turn the time back over to Kurt Ogden.
Thank you Peter.
Tahisha that concludes our prepared remarks.
Would you explain the procedure for questions and answers and then open the line for questions? [Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Frank Mitsch from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Hey Peter I just wanted to flush out on the TiO2 side.
You noticed that volumes are off again in the first quarter as they were in the fourth quarter and that's not dissimilar from what we've been seeing from others.
You did mention I guess pricing was up 3% sequentially.
What's your take on the price versus the ore cost increase as we progress through 2Q and beyond? And when do you think we might be getting closer to flat? I mean I know it's going to be difficult to show volume increase this year because you were running pretty flat out the second and third part of last year.
But when do we get closer to kind of flattish volumes in the TiO2 front? Well Frank as we prepare for these calls this is something that just behind the scenes.
This is something that we really grapple with trying to get exactly where we are on kind of this matrix of raw material.
When does it actually hit our bottom line selling prices the ability to increase price and the demand that we see going forward? In the circuitous way I'm trying to tell you I really don't know.
But as we look at the demand that is out there as we look at a gradual second quarter and as we look at when the ore prices come in it is all going to be a function of inventories and how much that we have in inventory and when that works its way through the system.
LLC Research Division</strong> I appreciate the candor.
If we could turn over to the EO side of the business when you're talking about Performance Products you're mentioning that you want to do a what 250 million-pound expansion there.
Can you talk about your ethylene supply? I mean obviously you have a cracker but I'm suspecting that most of that is already sold out.
Could you talk a little bit about the timing of the EO facility and the source of ethylene that you're envisioning there? We are not to the point where we're ready to announce the timing of the EO coming on to the market.
The engineering studies that we have in place right now tell us that there -- we will have some element of an expansion taking place on the ethylene side.
I do not believe that it will be in situ with the EO demand.
So we will be buying a little bit more on the merchant market than we are buying today.
But we see this as an opportunity to both improve our capacity for ethylene and improve our capacity for ethylene oxide.
We have the equipment and the ability in place to expand that ethylene oxide capacity by 250 million pounds.
Exactly when that will be starting in the corresponding amount of manufactured versus purchased ethylene we've not made that public yet.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then lastly the turnaround in the third quarter those -- that $15 million of cost that's all in the third quarter correct? Yes that should be all within the third quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Laurence Alexander from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> This is Rob Walker on for Lawrence.
I guess first just to follow up on your MTBE comments.
Just to clarify it was a $55 million to $60 million benefit to the quarter and I guess so x that Polyurethanes is running around $120 million or so in terms of EBITDA.
And I guess what are your expectations for kind of that segment profitability going forward in Q2 and Q3 if the MTBE rolls off? You said what was our expectation on the MDI side or on the PO/MTBE? Inc.
Research Division</strong> The whole segment.
Well I think that as we look at the first quarter moving into the second quarter as we look at the dynamics of the first quarter you had about 60 000 barrels a day of MTBE capacity that was shut down during various parts of the first quarter.
That represents about 1/3 of the oxygenate's capacity in North America.
So it had some major outages during the first quarter and all of that is -- most of all that has come up -- back into the market and came into the market at the latter part of the first quarter or the beginning of the second quarter.
So where MTBE profitability is going to be in the second quarter I think that's probably going to continue to be I would say better than average but certainly not at the levels that we saw in the first quarter.
And I think that in my script I quantified that amount and what we would see going forward.
We will see -- on the MDI side we believe that throughout the year that we're going to see a gradual tightening of that market taking place on the Polyurethanes market.
We believe that globally that market is running at about a 90% capacity utilization rate give or take 2 or 3 percentage points up or down from that 90% capacity utilization.
So I think that we're at an interesting inflection point when it comes to pricing when it comes to margin expansion.
And I believe that we'll see a gradual improvement in that MDI profitability throughout the year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just to follow up on Frank's questions on Pigments.
Any change to your prior outlook for profits and Pigments to be down slightly in 2012 given kind of some of the favorable pricing that's gone through especially in the U.S.? And roughly if you have quantified it in the past what is your volume forecast and better-than-that profit forecast? I wouldn't be in a position right now to give a volume and a pricing forecast.
I would say that as we look at TiO2 I believe that the industry the TiO2 industry will be taking price increases on raw materials throughout 2012.
I don't think that it's any secret that the paint companies are minimizing their offtake of TiO2.
I don't think that it's probably happening as aggressively as some would have you believe.
But I stand by my earlier comments that I believe that TiO2 will not necessarily peak but will plateau and will come off gradually in the latter part of the year in the -- probably during the third and fourth quarters depending on demand.
And I think that the combination of the price -- of the demand that you see throughout the year and the prices that are coming through on your titanium-bearing ores I think there's going to be some margin pressure going forward.
I'll just add that the market probably saw on a spot basis ore prices increase somewhere between $500 and $900 a ton depending on chloride sulfate and the mix of ores that each of those technologies use.
If someone has 60 days of inventory and some raw materials you probably don't see any of those ore increases at Huntsman or at any of our competitors until sometime in the second quarter.
We've mentioned that we do have a -- we think a better mix of ore purchases than the market given our position in ilmenite that is a lower-cost ore.
And also that we have some contracts that benefit us.
So that we will see in the second quarter much less than that $500 to $900 a ton market increase in ore.
And I hope that we are not confusing people too badly here but one of the unique things about TiO2 that we don't necessarily see in our other businesses is that people will contract multiple quarters out on raw materials.
I don't believe that there's a lot of those sort of contracts that are being written today but various players including Huntsman will have legacy contracts for raw materials that will be unwinding throughout 2012 early 2013.
And I don't think that it's fair to say -- I mean if you were looking at a lot of other products if benzene prices were to go up x percentage I think most of the MDI players would have that hit at about the same time depending on the inventory they have on raw material.
If you were to look at the raw material ores for TiO2 I think that's going to be more of a gradual process and it will vary competitor by competitor.
And I don't think there's any visibility on who is where in that.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin McCarthy from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Kimo with regard to TiO2 would it be safe to say that the titanium ore costs that you would have expensed in the first quarter would relate entirely to ore purchase in 2011? Yes I think that's fair.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then looking ahead to 2Q what is the anticipated sequential increase in ore cost? Presumably you'd be working through the inventory that would have been procured in 2011 and kind of moving into ore that you would have bought at a new contract level in 2012.
So how should we think about that sequential flow-through into the June quarter? You could see between $300 and $350 a ton in TiO2 terms first quarter to second quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then if I may switch gears to MDI.
Would you comment briefly on the relative strength that you saw in Southeast Asia versus the weakness in China.
What is driving that disparity? And what is your outlook let's say for the next couple of quarters there? I think again I would want to remind you that in China we're not necessarily seeing a negative growth.
We're certainly not in a recession in China.
We're just seeing the rate of growth flow precipitously.
I think that you saw a great deal of work that was being done on infrastructural spending and so forth.
And since the Chinese New Year you certainly have started to see some repurchases coming back in China.
I think that as we look at the ASEAN market and by that I'm talking about everything kind of east of Myanmar coming all the way down and everything except China we are seeing these markets for us at least grow better than what China is growing on a percentage basis and largely offsetting that.
Let me give you just a little color in Asia.
We saw 28% growth in our insulation business year-over-year in the first quarter in Asia.
So insulation and commercial construction continues to be very strong in that region as Peter said in China and outside of China.
There are a couple of soft spots in Asia.
Appliances in particular wasn't all that strong for us.
We saw some negative growth there.
But generally pretty strong insulation business across the board.
It would appear that those applications that are more consumer-driven local consumer-driven; what are the Chinese buying what are the Indonesians buying and so forth rather than what's being exported appear to be stronger than the export demand for the end-use application.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Koort from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Peter you talked a little bit about Polyurethanes being compromised a little bit on the raw materials side.
Can you give us a sense of how much more headwind is in front of you? Do you think we're going to have stability going forward? Well I think that as we look at our single largest price component it would be benzene.
And as we look at our averaged benzene cost for the first quarter it's right around $4 $4.05 right around there.
Current price for benzene on the market as you look at it as of yesterday or today you're looking at about $4.15 or so.
So a very small benzene by and large for the first quarter moving into the second quarters it's been fairly flat.
I mean it's maybe been up 1% or so.
We think that there will be pricing momentum for MDI that will more than offset that.
So year-over-year that same comparison that Peter was talking about Bob we were what $3.25 roughly a year ago.
Excuse me in the fourth quarter sequential comparison up to $4 as Peter said in the first quarter.
Roughly $1 a gallon of benzene equals about $0.08 a pound MDI.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then can you talk a little bit about regional variation in TiO2 markets.
I get the sense that the Asian market was falling apart a little bit last year and created a bigger pricing delta to other regions and maybe it offered some customers that have flexibility to consider using Chinese product.
Where are the price differentials today? And have you seen any of that shift? We've seen recently more pricing activity and success in Asia.
As you know Asia tends to be a spot market in terms of -- not a contractual price.
And so it's a little bit more volatile.
But I think we're finding that the regions now are much closer in terms of actual absolute prices.
Asia is still just a little bit lower than our other regions but much closer given the price activity in the first quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of P.J.
Juvekar from Citi.
Research Division</strong> Peter maybe you can talk about what's happening in the epoxy business? You had some volume growth there but propylene had dropped in 4Q but it's now going back up.
Can you just talk about those 2 forces and how that impact your profitability? We continue to see a fairly strong demand but the impact of propylene in that business I believe that we'll be able to offset that in price increases in our epoxy businesses and derivative businesses.
So yes propylene is going up.
Epichlorohydrin is I believe taking some of that and we're seeing a small increase in epichlorohydrin.
But as I look towards the second quarter for us and for some reason as we look over the last couple of years first quarter has always been the strongest quarter for our epoxy business.
And as we look into the second quarter I think that our volumes seem to be holding up and our pricing seems to be stable or increasing enough to offset the -- any increases that we're seeing to date at this point in epichlorohydrin.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just secondly on TiO2 ore are there any specific contracts that expire for you in 2013? And is it true that ore producers are reluctant to sign long-term contracts again? Because they had these unprofitable contracts for a long time and now just like many other commodities they want to sign up long-term contracts.
We're seeing on the ore side that contracts are really only out 6 months.
We're not seeing multiyear contracts.
Your next question comes from the line of Edlain Rodriguez from Lazard Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Peter a quick question.
During the Investor Day back in early March you talked about seeing 1Q EBITDA at about last year's level.
Like what changed so dramatically in the last 4 -- 3 4 weeks of the quarter for the outperformance that we saw? And has that momentum continued into Q2? I think that as we look into from the time of our Investor Day to what we saw in our ultimate results obviously we saw a strengthening that took place in the oxygenates and the MTBE.
But I think and I hope that as we focus here my comments are around not just the quantity of our earnings but the quality of earnings.
And I think that what -- at least that gave me kind of pause for more optimism as we look at something like our Advanced Materials had their best quarter in the last 2 or 3 quarters here.
Our Textile Effects business had its best quarter in the last 2 quarters or so 2 or 3 quarters.
The traction we're starting to get in MDI.
Again I kind of see this rising tide taking place as we are able to continue to manage our cost focus on our marginal improvement in pricing across our differentiated businesses.
As I said in my comments as I look to the first quarter I think it was kind of across the board.
We just saw an improvement in all the divisions from where they were in the fourth quarter moving into the second.
As I look into the second quarter I obviously see the margin dropping on the MTBE side of the business.
But I feel that that gradual improvement that is going to be taking place on the differentiated side of the business ever so slightly will continue to work its way through the second quarter.
Again focusing on the quality of the earnings not just the quantity.
Research Division</strong> Okay that makes sense.
And one last question on Europe.
I mean Huntsman continues to perform well there.
How does that match with what we hear out there in terms of the weakness there? I mean it seems like you continue to outperform.
Like what's driving that? Well I think that a lot of the headlines that you read about Europe were coming from Southern Europe.
The issues around Spain and Italy and Greece and Portugal and we don't see a great deal about what is taking place in Northern Europe.
So if I look at something like the -- well if I look at something like the insulation market in Southern Europe this is just in MDI to give you an example in Polyurethanes.
In Southern Europe I'm seeing a 21% drop in demand in insulation.
In Northern Europe I'm seeing a 21% growth in Northern Europe and there is a split in our business of about 3:1 Northern Europe versus Southern Europe.
So if I look at something like composite wood products in Northern Europe up 24% Southern Europe down 17%.
Automotives Northern Europe up 10% Southern Europe down 20%.
So you really see this bifurcation.
I can go through it application by application and it's not too dissimilar.
Europe's bifurcation that I'm seeing at least taking place in Southern versus the Northern European economy.
I believe a lot of the negative headlines are coming out of Southern Europe.
And that's -- I remain -- again I remain very cautious.
Those numbers I just gave you were Q1-on-Q1 of a year-ago.
And I remain cautious about all of Europe because they're obviously things that economically that can spread throughout the entire continent.
But as I look at Europe today headlines negatively demand business negatively coming out of the southern part of the continent which represents about 25% to 30% of our business.
The northern parts of Europe continue to do quite well for us.
And as I look into the second quarter I don't see in the order patterns I don't see a great deal of change taking place.
Just to comment on the directional guidance we gave at the Investor Day.
One of the things that really surprised us at the end of the quarter again was this MTBE price.
It was I think Lyondell that was out in February and March.
And that's when we saw C factors or sort of the quasi raw material margin in MTBE skyrocket at the end of the quarter sort of in February and March and that really was the windfall we saw.
And as you know MTBE pricing these C factors that Kimo's talking about they move on a daily basis.
So this is something that can be up 10% 20% in a matter of a couple of days and back down that much.
So kind of a tough thing to try to forecast.
Your next question comes from the line of Andy Cash from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of things back to TiO2 just to make sure I got this right.
It sounds like all of your contracts longer-term contracts will have rolled over by 2013.
Am I right in that? Most of them.
We have I think a contract that goes through the end of 2013 but we've said 40% of our raw materials are under contract at least through the end of 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you're talking about TiO2 contracts right? Yes ore contracts.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
On the Pigments side I think Peter mentioned that demand would be up in the second quarter.
Was he referring to the year-ago quarter or was he referring to the first quarter? Well I'll tell you about it.
The demand -- we're seeing demand -- a gradual improvement in the second quarter and that's for TiO2 finished pigment.
Research Division</strong> Is that on a year-over-year basis Peter? Well I think we're talking mostly about Asia in sequential improvement.
And that's where everyone's sort of focused because everything else has been fairly flat.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So year-over-year you may still have negative comps in terms of volume? Yes that could be true.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Turning to the urethanes market.
If you look at -- the force majeure down in the first quarter.
If you look at the raw material pressure maybe there's some pre-price increase buying.
And then on top of all that in North America we had this warm weather.
So I'm just thinking about demand going forward do you think that full year you'll be able to maintain a 7% year-over-year volume growth? I think that that's going to be really a byproduct of global GDP and to what happens in Europe.
Europe's a very large MDI market for us.
And also what takes place in North America.
We saw some kind of a weaker-than-expected GDP here that was announced in the last couple of days.
Again I think when I look at our widespread of chemistry and our widespread of application in MDI I continue to be bullish that longer term we're going to continue to see growth that is around the 7% to 8% sort of growth year-on-year growth that we've seen in MDI for the last 15 or 20 years.
What we see specifically over the next 2 to 3 quarters I just -- there's just so much uncertainty out there.
I wouldn't care to speculate on that.
Just to catch a mistake.
I'm sure you caught it but I meant to say 40% of our ore contracts are contracted through the end of 2012 not 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I was surprised by that.
Okay.
So just to sum up in urethanes you're not concerned about maybe there were some pre-price increase buying in the first quarter and the warm weather in North America kind of boosted things up.
As far as April's concerned things are still going gangbusters? Yes I -- gangbusters is a pretty strong word.
But if we look into April compared to January February and March I don't believe that the profitability that we're seeing in MDI today is precipitated by a closure or by prebuying.
I think that it's pretty constant demand that we're seeing across the board.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Zekauskas from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> You made really lovely progress in your operating expenses in that they went from $291 million last year to $265 million.
Can you talk about what's behind that? And how much you might be able to lower your operating expenses this year? Well as you know we have several initiatives that are ongoing and some of it European focused.
We are -- we've taken some cost out of Switzerland in Advanced Materials and we're in the middle of this Textile Effects restructuring.
We think in total we will have nearly $200 million of benefit of reducing our operating costs globally in the next 12 to 18 months.
There were also some costs in the prior periods related to legal settlement costs that will not be going forward and we didn't see in the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
As far as TiO2 goes if it turned out you didn't have this 40% of advantaged raw material contracts and say that they had expired at the beginning of 2012 how much would you have made in the first quarter in TiO2? Well we said that the contracts are worth on a mark-to-market basis could be around $100 million or so.
And I mentioned a number that in the second quarter we think ore material -- our direct cost will go up on TiO2 terms right around $300 to $350 a ton.
And we produce right around 500 000 tons of TiO2 so I think you can do that math and see that it's probably what is that $35 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
In Performance Products your EBITDA fell about $25 million and you talked about benefits from ethane-based products and you talked about amines pressures.
Could you disentangle the $25 million EBITDA swing into what benefit you got in one place and what hit you took in another? I think that the single largest benefit that we had from first quarter of a year ago was some amines facilities in North America that were shut down for maintenance and I believe some of that was unplanned.
So we saw an unusually tight first quarter of a year ago.
And we saw high prices strong margins because of shortages that were in the industry.
If I remember right there may have even been some force majeures that took place during that time period.
And as you saw those facilities start up I think you'd see sequentially from the first quarter last year into the second and third quarter you saw the profitability for that division drop.
I -- our cost advantage that we see relative to our European and Asian peers today and North American gas I believe is as strong today as it was a year ago.
That certainly has not weakened.
It's the end-product pricing on amines that we've seen for the most part.
Just to try to quantify that a little bit for you Jeff.
Year-over-year EBITDA in amines is down around $20 million.
We benefited I think from lower raw material environment in North America by about $10 million or about half that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly in rough terms in urethanes is MTBE/PO roughly I don't know 40% of adjusted EBITDA in the quarter which would be around $70 million? We haven't ever broke that out for the market.
What we have said Jeff is it's averaged about $100 million.
Obviously the first quarter run rate is more than $100 million.
And -- but fundamentally C factors we think are a little higher than that average but not a lot going forward.
And that's simply because of the lower raw material environment in North America.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry I didn't understand what you said.
So did you say that the EBITDA piece from MTBE/PO was $100 million in the first quarter? No no I'm sorry.
On average -- over the last several years it's averaged on an annual basis of about $100 million.
And what we're pointing out obviously if you divide that up by 4 quarters $25 million we said that it was $50 million higher than normalized right? So obviously it was much higher run rate than that $100 million.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Ritzenthaler from Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick question from me on MDI and end markets that you saw.
Was there -- were there any abnormalities because of the outage benefit that you saw in terms of end-market demand? And I just wanted to give you an opportunity to talk a little bit more about the adhesives piece as opposed to the insulation.
Sure.
Again the outage that we experienced was in MTBE and not MDI.
And so the MDI markets were not impacted by lack of supply.
When we think about sort of our adhesives businesses it grew globally at 2% really driven by our European business that tends to be a more system-based region for us and we have a bigger adhesive business there.
For some reason our U.S.
adhesive business was down a bit.
But overall Europe was in fact our highest growing sector overall at 7% and adhesives was a very strong part of that.
Your next question comes from the line of Roger Spitz from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Peter regarding your comments of the outlook in amines I think on a margin pressure.
Is this due to continuing ethyleneamine issues where we thought I think most of the -- or all of the capacity that came on is sort of already on or perhaps you're referring to say some of the ethanolamines where there's some recent start-up of Kayan's plants in Saudi Arabia and maybe a Chinese plant or 2? I think that it is mostly the ethyleneamines but the ethanolamines capacity will have some impact but much lesser compared to ethyleneamines.
I think with the ethyleneamines essentially that everything that is out there to come into the industry that's being built is in the industry.
Off the top of my head I don't know of any added capacity that is yet to come on on ethyleneamines.
So everything that can come into the industry has been absorbed by the industry and I think that we saw the margin impact of that this past year.
And now the industry's absorbing it and moving forward with it.
I'm bullish as I look throughout the rest of the year that we ought to have again gradual margin recovery and pricing improvement taking place.
The only other amines that we participate in that is significant to comment on would be polyetheramines and that is not a supply issue.
We have significant market share there.
It was really demand that we saw fall off in the fourth quarter that we really saw come back in the first quarter much stronger.
Your last question comes from the line of Gregg Goodnight from UBS.
Research Division</strong> On Table 3 your average selling price for Polyurethanes is at 10%.
If you parse that out between MDI and MTBE what would be the contribution for MDI? We saw MDI prices pretty flat year-over-year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Second question.
One of your competitors had an outage in March and as I understand declared force majeure.
Would you comment on the tightness of the North American MDI market currently? I don't see a great deal of tightness in MDI in the North American market.
It feels like it's being said well enough.
I don't see any panic I don't see any massive increase in pricing or spikes taking place or anything in order patterns.
Research Division</strong> So perhaps typify as balanced? Yes I would say that it typifies balance and I hope whoever's having mechanical problems keeps having them.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well the last question I had is shutdown plans for MDI.
Could you please remind us if you have any major planned outages and when they might be this year? I -- do we have anything on the planned outages for this year for MDI? Yes.
One second Gregg we'll get that.
And while we're pulling it up you asked us a little bit about MDI pricing.
You're probably aware that there are price initiatives that we have announced effective April 1 and May 1.
The April 1 is roughly EUR 200 a ton in MDI in Europe.
And in May 1 we have roughly $0.10 a pound in MDI and we're optimistic on those price increases.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Could you comment on the success of your margin increase of $0.10? We had a $0.10 on polyoles and systems for the Americas for March 1 but not MDI per se.
And as we mentioned we saw a sequential price increase of a little bit but not much.
As we look at our MDI turnaround our maintenance schedule in North America we've got 1 of 3 lines that will be down for 28 days and that's taking place actually as we speak right now.
That's spread over the first and the second quarter of 2012.
And then we'll see a line come down -- line #2 come down in the Netherlands in the second quarter of this year and that will only be for 9 days.
So I'm not sure that that's going to have a material impact on the business.
So as I look at the T&amp;I schedule I think the big schedule that we're looking for is around the EO that I mentioned earlier but nothing that I would say is material this year and well I'm looking over all the PU business don't see a lot of anything that would be material.
But we take those MDI units down just about every year anyway so...
Yes they usually come down like 1 week or 2.
And it's usually one line at a time and most of our facilities have multiple lines.
So I think we try to factor that into our stated capacity.
And ladies and gentlemen I would now like to turn the conference over back to Mr.
Kurt Ogden for any closing remarks.
All right.
Thank you Tahisha.
Listen we just want to thank everybody for your interest in the company.
And if you have additional questions feel free to call us and we'll talk to you then.
Thanks again.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q2 2012 Huntsman Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Shenae and I'll be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I will now turn the presentation over to your host for today Mr.
Kurt Ogden Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Shenae and good morning everyone.
Welcome to our second quarter 2012 earnings call.
Joining us on the call today are Jon Huntsman Executive Chairman and Founder; Peter Huntsman President and CEO; and Kimo Esplin Executive Vice President and CFO.
This morning before the market opened we released our earnings for the second quarter 2012 via press release and posted it on our website huntsman.com.
We also posted a set of slides on our website which we intend to use on the call this morning in the discussion of our results.
During this call we may make statements about our projections or expectations for the future.
All such statements are forward-looking statements and while they reflect our current expectations they involve risks and uncertainties and are not guarantees of future performance.
You should review our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for more information regarding the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these projections or expectations.
We do not plan on publicly updating or revising any forward-looking statements during the quarter.
In addition we will also refer to non-GAAP financial measures such as EBITDA adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income or loss.
You can find reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in our earnings release which has been posted on our website at huntsman.com.
Let's turn to Slide 2.
In our earnings release this morning we reported second quarter 2012 revenue of $2 914 000 000 adjusted EBITDA of $365 million and adjusted earnings per share of $0.58 per diluted share.
Our adjusted EBITDA was $365 million in the second quarter 2012 compared to $321 million in the prior year an increase of 14%.
I will now turn the call over to Peter Huntsman our President and CEO.
Thank you Kurt.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us.
Let's turn to Slide #3.
Adjusted EBITDA for our Polyurethanes division in the second quarter 2012 was $170 million an improvement of $27 million compared to the prior year of $143 million of adjusted EBITDA.
The increase in earnings was entirely attributed to improvements in our MDI urethanes volumes and margins.
Sales volumes for our MDI products increased 12% compared to the prior year.
We are encouraged by the strong growth in demand from our largest end markets: insulation adhesives coatings elastomers and composite wood products all of which grew at double-digit rates compared to the prior year.
Despite economic concerns that dominate current headlines sales volumes in Europe improved 15% compared to the prior year and 9% compared to the prior quarter.
Most of this growth came in Northern Europe where sales volumes for our MDI products improved 14% whereas Southern Europe grew only 1% compared to the prior year.
During the quarter we successfully raised our MDI selling prices which combined with stable benzene costs had the effect of increasing our contribution margins.
Recently benzene costs have spiked in the U.S.
primarily as a result of regional supply dislocation.
We believe this will rebalance in the near term and pricing will moderate but it will be a slight headwind in the third quarter.
Overall the margin expansion we enjoyed in the second quarter will be sustained in the second half of 2012 as utilization rates continue to tighten.
Propylene oxide and our coproduct MTBE continue to perform very well primarily as a result of an attractive spread between premium gasoline and lower-priced raw materials.
Earnings for this product were in line with the previous year and decreased approximately $40 million compared to the first quarter when industry supply outages led to exceptional margins.
In July we suffered an unplanned outage at our PO/MTBE facility due to a lightning strike.
This facility is back up and running now but the repairs and lost production will have an approximate EBITDA impact of $10 million in the third quarter.
Let's turn to Slide #4.
In the second quarter our Performance Products division earned $85 million of adjusted EBITDA.
During the second quarter we experienced an unplanned outage at our ethylene oxide unit which reduced our EBITDA by approximately $5 million.
We have elected to delay our previously announced third quarter planned maintenance on this unit until the first quarter of next year to coincide with our planned polyolefins cracker maintenance.
Although the second quarter contribution margins for some of our amines was low we expect an improvement in the third quarter as the lower cost of ethylene and propylene work their way through the value chain of these products.
Further the lower cost of benzene should benefit our maleic anhydride business.
We are encouraged by early demand trends within the business as order patterns have been strong thus far.
As a result of the planned maintenance postponement we expect third quarter earnings to be slightly higher than the second.
Turning to Slide #5.
Adjusted EBITDA in the second quarter in our Advanced Materials division was $24 million.
In light of macro -- of troubling macroeconomic headlines during the quarter we saw reasonable demand for most of our products.
Compared to the prior year sales volumes increased in all regions with the exception of Asia Pacific where Chinese demand for electronics wind and power continued to be soft.
We expect business conditions for these Chinese markets to remain difficult at least through the end of this year.
Challenging market conditions and competitive pressures have led to reducing pricing leverage and made it difficult to maintain margins and more than offset the benefits of our recent restructuring efforts.
Let's turn to Slide #6.
Our Textile Effects division reported an adjusted EBITDA loss of $4 million for the second quarter.
Sales volumes improved 5% in the second quarter compared to the prior year primarily as a result of market share gains.
As we track consumer confidence levels and retail data in major markets such as the U.S.
Europe and China we remain cautious with regards to our near-term demand.
We are proceeding slightly ahead of plan on our $75 million restructuring program.
Although we've seen some benefits from early restructuring efforts we don't expect to see meaningful benefits until the latter part of this year because we're operating 2 redundant manufacturing platforms as we transition out of Switzerland.
Within the textile industry the third quarter is historically the softest from a demand perspective largely driven by European mill operations.
As a result we expect our earnings in the third quarter to be sequentially lower from the second.
Let's turn to Slide #7.
Our Pigments division earned $133 million of adjusted EBITDA in the second quarter.
Global demand for TiO2 was soft within the second quarter compounded by an absence of a historical seasonal increase.
Anecdotally speaking we do not hear evidence from our customers of reformulation away from TiO2 products.
However we have heard of a greater acceptance and use of lower-quality Chinese-produced materials.
Estimated industry inventory days on hand increased during the second quarter and are at very high levels.
Our inventory days on hand are well below the industry less than 3/4.
Average selling prices increased 1% compared to the first quarter driven by increases in North America.
Pricing momentum has clearly slowed down.
Consistent with the guidance that we provided earlier in the year we expect our 2012 earnings to be less than 2011 in our Pigments division.
In the third quarter we expect the effect of pricing increases in titanium-bearing ores to be more evident in earnings as supply contracts have renewed and lower costs from older inventories have been consumed.
We expect selling prices to come under pressure as unusually high TiO2 industry inventory levels are fed into the market.
We believe the combination of higher-priced ores and lower average selling prices may produce a headwind of up to approximately $350 per ton in contribution margins in the third quarter compared to the second.
We also expect softer sequential demand in Europe.
Before sharing some concluding thoughts I'd like to turn a few minutes over to Kimo Esplin our Chief Financial Officer.
Thanks Peter.
Let's go to Slide 8.
In the second quarter of 2012 our adjusted EBITDA increased $365 million from $321 million in the prior year.
The primary reason for this year-over-year increase was an improvement in margins average selling prices increased and raw material costs decreased.
Sales volumes increased as we saw improved demand for some of our products most notably within our Polyurethanes division.
These improvements were partially offset by an increase in SG&amp;A and other indirect costs.
Compared to the first quarter of 2011 our second quarter adjusted EBITDA decreased from $397 million to $365 million.
The decrease was primarily attributable to our PO/MTBE business which decreased $40 million from the first quarter when we enjoyed exceptional margins as a result of industry supply outages.
Slide 9.
Our year-over-year consolidated sales revenue for the second quarter decreased 1% primarily as a result of the strengthening of the U.S.
dollar against major international currencies which had a negative 4% impact on revenues.
Our Pigments business was affected the most of any division by the negative impact of foreign currency movements.
Revenues for this division decreased 4% but foreign currency had a negative 7% impact where nearly 1/2 of its revenues are in Europe.
The net EBITDA impact from foreign currency movements in our Pigments business was approximately $8 million in the second quarter compared to the prior year.
Our Polyurethanes business which accounted for approximately 42% of our second quarter revenues recorded a revenue increase of 12% while Performance Products our second largest revenue contributor recorded a revenue decrease of 14% primarily due to a greater shift to tolling arrangements for our sales volume which is excluded from our change in revenue calculations and the impact of the unplanned outage of our ethylene oxide unit.
Our total company average selling price improved 1% adjusted for the impact of foreign currency while our sales volumes were flat when compared to the prior year.
The majority of our sales in the quarter came from North America and Europe which decreased by 2% and 8% respectively.
Sales revenue increased in the Asia Pacific region by 3% in large part due to an increase in sales volume in all but one of our segments whereas our Rest of World category which includes emerging markets such as Central and South America and the Middle East saw the most growth compared to the prior year of 10%.
Compared to the prior quarter consolidated sales revenue was flat.
An increase in average selling price and sales mix was entirely offset by a decrease in sales volume and the impact of foreign currency.
Notably urethanes saw a 12% sequential increase in revenue as a result of higher average selling prices and higher sales volume.
Slide 10.
At the end of the quarter we had approximately $1.1 billion of cash and unused borrowing capacity.
Reducing our debt remains a priority of our management team and our board.
During the quarter we reduced our net debt by $60 million.
Our current net debt to last 12 months adjusted EBITDA is 2.4x.
Our target is to have a sustained -- a sustainable net debt leverage of 2 to 2.5x and we will continue to pay down our debt to achieve that.
We spent $82 million on capital expenditures in the second quarter of 2012.
In 2012 we expect to spend approximately $425 million on capital expenditures which approximates our annual depreciation and amortization.
We are investing in growth opportunities within our business.
In July we acquired the remaining ownership in our Russian Polyurethanes joint venture which supplies polyurethane systems to the adhesives coatings and footwear markets in Russia Ukraine and Belarus.
Later in July we opened a polyurethane systems house in Indonesia focused on providing polyurethane systems for the fast-growing MDI insulation automotive and footwear markets.
Peter? Thank you Kimo.
I'm very pleased with the second quarter results and the first 6 months of our financial performance.
While we can't control issues impacting global economic markets we can effectively manage and operate our company in a way to take advantage of prevailing market conditions.
Since our last earnings call our Chairman Jon Huntsman our newest board member Jon Huntsman Jr.
and most of our senior management have spent the better part of the summer in Europe India China more than a dozen other Asian countries visiting thousands of customers suppliers partners and associates.
Together with the rest of our Huntsman associates we continue to build a robust and expanding customer base that I believe over time will continue to grow better than global GDP rates.
In fact in the second quarter with the exception of TiO2 we saw growing volumes compared to the previous quarter and previous year.
Most of our products and applications are seeing increasing demand and our end markets are expanding.
Starting in the third quarter and continuing throughout 2013 we will see the benefits of over $150 million of cost initiatives that will improve our operations and financial results.
We are paying down debt from operating cash flows and continue to strengthen our balance sheet.
Initiatives throughout this year and next should improve our working capital.
We are well-positioned to benefit from anticipated growth in the North American economy as we are a significant supplier of materials and products in the improving housing automotive and energy industries.
We have a stronger customer base in Asia than we've ever had and continue to see opportunities for growth in this region.
While European market conditions are a challenge with the exception of Pigments we saw company-wide sequential and yearly improvements led by our Polyurethanes division.
In the third quarter we expect to see margin pressures on TiO2 as I stated earlier.
But I continue to see our other divisions improving their cost positions and growing their volumes.
I expect that our other divisions' earnings will improve over time as we become less dependent on our TiO2 earnings as a percentage of our overall business.
This improvement is being led by our Polyurethanes division and a recovering specialty amines business.
I continue to believe that TiO2 will see short-term destocking but longer term this will continue to operate at higher-than-historical margins and will continue to be a strong contributor to our business.
In short barring a major economic event we are poised to have another very strong year.
With that I'll turn the call over to Kurt.
Thanks Peter.
Shenae that concludes our prepared remarks.
Would you explain the procedure for questions and answers and then open the line for questions? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of P.J.
Juvekar with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about TiO2? You talked about high TiO2 inventories but can you talk about destocking that happened in China? And what are inventories like in China? Well I don't think that we've had the granularity particularly for the entire market to see inventory levels in China per se.
We started to see a destocking and a lowering of demand in China in the fourth quarter of last year and that's continued up through the third quarter.
I think that China in particular Asia in general is unique in that you have a number of distributors and you have a number of brokers that you typically don't have in the European and North American markets that stand between the producers and the ultimate consumers.
And so you have a much larger built-in inventory in that supply chain in the Asian region.
But as I look throughout the entire industry that's why I say in my comments is I see continued destocking taking place in the third quarter.
I think that again across the board and this is not going to be in all regions to all customers but I think that this entire destocking that has taken place over the last 2 to 3 quarters globally particularly in Asia I think that that's going to start coming to an end here in the third quarter.
And you will see in the fourth quarter -- I think that the inventory levels in the supply chain particularly on the customer and on the distributor side will certainly be lower than it was a year ago.
P.J.
I'd just add to that.
I think sort of an industry the Asia Pacific region is probably down year-over-year 25% 30% in the first quarter and second quarter compared to the prior year so down significantly.
We were probably down even further than that simply because the local Chinese producers were very aggressive on price and we probably gave up market share.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's fair to say that China destocking began earlier than North American destocking? Yes I would certainly say that that's the case.
Not only did it start earlier but I think it started more aggressively because of the intense competition we saw from Chinese producers.
Research Division</strong> Yes just secondly your volumes in Polyurethanes picked up nicely even in Europe.
Are you gaining share? And what is differentiated about your Polyurethanes that allows you to gain share? Well the polyurethane customer base is quite different.
We are going to have competitors that are going to be stronger than Huntsman in certain end-use applications.
And frankly Huntsman is going to take more of its resources and our efforts and we're going to focus more in MDI applications and markets in areas like insulation automotive some of our coatings and adhesive applications and so forth.
Others of our competitors are probably going to focus more in synthetic leather and so forth than Huntsman has.
But as we look at our customer base we continue to believe that longer-term as you look at such things as insulation as you look at the higher-end automotive applications and so forth as you look at the building materials and adhesives I think that longer-term these are going to be very strong and continue to grow even in areas like Europe perhaps better than our competition.
And P.J.
just to reiterate when you think about sort of 15% growth rates in Europe again that's led largely by insulation.
Our observation has been that it's decoupled a bit from GDP really conservation and retrofit of existing buildings with spray-on foam and panel polyurethane insulation...
And government mandates.
And government mandates.
It's really sort of -- there's not a lot of correlation with GDP.
Your next question comes from the line of Laurence Alexander with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> This is Rob Walker on for Laurence.
I guess just briefly on TiO2.
So I saw in the trade press that inventories in the industry are above 100 days.
I guess wondering if you agree with that figure.
And how long would it take to go from 100 days to like a more normalized level around 60 days? Well I really can't comment on what the competition is doing but I would just note and I think we've been pretty clear in the last couple of calls that we believe that industry-wide that there are quite a few ore contracts that are coming to expiration.
And certainly I don't think that it would be out of the ordinary for those people that are seeing large increases in ore pricing to buy what they can at the lower prices produce as much of the low-cost TiO2 as they can under those contracts and to sit on that inventory and perhaps reduce their offtake at the higher price ore prices.
So you might see a drop in that inventory a little bit quicker than you normally would see as people reduce their ore consumption and reduce consumption of the higher-priced ores.
So I would say that I'm a bit concerned of these higher-priced inventories but I don't think that that should be too surprising given the situation in raw materials.
And I think that as you see a destocking a slowdown in this destocking taking place that you could see that inventory build.
I wouldn't say fall off a cliff but I think you could see it start to decrease quicker than anticipated.
Rob yes so just to confirm.
I think some of the industry data is about 100 days and I think as Peter mentioned in his comments we're less than that.
We're closer to 70 days.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
That's very helpful.
And then just finally on polyurethanes just wondering if you could help us parse the moving pieces to the sequential bridge.
I guess MTBE margins look to be lower benzene looks to be higher.
And then the outage it seems like if you add all those together it could be $40 million or $50 million sequentially.
Is that too draconian? When you say sequentially from the first to the second quarter? Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess from the -- looking to the third quarter from the second quarter.
Well I wouldn't see a -- when we talk about a $40 million MTBE that was really between the first and the second quarter.
We won't see that between the second and the third quarter.
We will see $10 million less than we otherwise would have had in the third quarter than the second quarter from MTBE.
But where we stand today MTBE margins are pretty healthy today.
We think that we will continue to hold on to the margin gains that we achieved in the second quarter in urethanes and we would expect that volumes would be similar to if not better than the second quarter.
I'd say on all we're probably looking at it flattish to slightly improved in the third quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Frank Mitsch with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> This is Maggie on for Frank.
I was just wondering about the pricing conditions by region for TiO2.
Can you give us more color on that? Well pricing is an interesting one.
If you look at it in U.S.
dollar terms simply because the softening of the euro relative to the dollar.
And so you wouldn't -- you shouldn't be surprised that euro pricing in Europe is fairly flat.
And -- but as you look at the end of the quarter after we saw the significant drop in the euro that in dollar terms that is the lowest priced product in the world.
It's -- it could be as much as $400 to $600 a ton cheaper in dollar terms in Europe than it is in the U.S.
But again we haven't seen prices fall in Europe in local currency terms.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of your MDI demand you said that was expected to improve in Q3.
You had a really good Q2.
How long is this trend expected to last? We have I think 20 years of data to suggest that MDI grows at above 7%.
So we would expect to see a 7% growth and maybe that will accelerate given the focus on insulation.
Insulation now represents roughly 40% of our sales demand in MDI Polyurethanes and we see that growing above that 7% trend line over 20 years.
I'll just note in the U.S.
we are experiencing low natural gas prices and lower utility costs for natural gas-based utilities in North America.
The rest of the world if you look at China and India and so forth you're looking at natural gas prices that in some cases are 7 to 8 9x higher than what we're seeing in North America.
So as you look at insulation and energy conservation it's as relevant today as it ever has been and I think that we're bullish on the long-term demand prospects on MDI on a global basis.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin McCarthy with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> This is Alex Yefremov for Kevin actually.
A question on TiO2.
Given sort of industry-wide volume declines do you see prospects for cost relief in titanium ores in the second half or maybe in 2013 sort of could that market loosen up and offset some of the price weakness in TiO2? I wouldn't be surprised to see that particularly as you go into the early part of 2013.
We've mentioned in past calls and meetings that while there might be some short-term benefit being an integrated ore and Pigments producer typically you rarely do see very strong ore prices if TiO2 demand is not there.
And I believe that with the destocking that you're seeing on the customer side the destocking on the Pigments side is in effect and I think that this is going to have a longer-term pressure on ore prices particularly on some of the higher-end ore prices.
I will remind you as you look at ore prices on a per ton basis that you're between rutile to ilmenite that you're seeing a spread anywhere from $1 500 to $1 700 per ton.
So very very large swing there in -- or variation in ore prices.
And the other thing that I think we're seeing and would expect to see with these chloride ores is a shift in mix at a typical chloride plant away from rutile.
You remember natural rutile doubled in price second half of 2011 to first half of 2012.
And if a typical chloride plant was running 80% chloride slag and 20% natural rutile they may flex that a little bit away from rutile because it got so expensive.
That's not to say that chloride slag isn't expensive.
It's very expensive.
But at least rutile is more expensive.
So you're seeing some shifting in mix of ores.
But ilmenite ores continue to be the lowest-cost route to titanium dioxide and we believe that sulfate slags are also lower cost than chloride slags and rutiles that are consumed in chloride plants.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And Peter you mentioned some increased sales of Chinese TiO2 in Europe.
Do you have a sense of how sort of permanent that market shift is whether European customers are now ready to consistently buy from China or this is sort of an opportunistic market shift rather? I think longer-term to the degree that the Chinese producers are competitive in pricing and in quality that European producers or consumers of TiO2 will probably continue to buy Chinese material.
So I wouldn't be surprised at this trend and this is certainly something that we've expected and is a natural course.
As you see most all of the expansion globally that's taking place in TiO2 production coming out of China.
And please don't misunderstand us.
When we think about utilization rates which will really drive margins over time we include the Chinese producers.
We have never ever set them aside and have thought of them as swing producers somehow only in the region.
They are lower quality but they are improving that quality very rapidly.
And we're seeing more and more Asian-produced product in Europe and in the U.S.
And while it's expensive and it's lower quality we're seeing more of it.
But we include them as true competitors in all regions and include them in our utilization rate calculations.
Notwithstanding the Chinese aggressiveness we still see long-term in normalized markets for titanium dioxide after destocking is complete industry utilization rates in the low 90% area and we think that is an area in which we can have pricing leverage and maintain higher-than-normalized margins.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And a final question if I may.
Peter you mentioned some recovery in specialty amines.
Could you maybe elaborate what is driving that how sustainable it could be? Well I think that last year we saw our margins in amines were under pressure because of the large capacity that was added to the industry.
As that added capacity to the industry is absorbed by the market the industry started tightening again.
We started to have some pricing leverage and I believe that over time as you can look out over the next year or 2 you can see how much capacity is coming on.
I believe the markets are gradually going to be tightening over the course of the next year or 2 given present demand utilization rates and that we'll have an opportunity to continue to expand our margins in our specialty amines.
I think that over the course of the next year or 2 that our margins in specialty amines is going to improve.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Ritzenthaler with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Within Performance Products is there any commentary in markets for -- on the surfactant side? And what's the outlook for products exposed to things like ag given the dry conditions? I guess the spirit of the question is around any unusual seasonality in 3Q that could move the needle.
We are not seeing any material harm done to the business or falloff in demand because of the drought at least nothing that's come to my attention.
I think we mentioned and I'll just repeat it if you'll allow us just to -- that we had some unusual things in the second quarter relative to our demand because of our outage but also because of a shift in -- from a direct manufacturing sale customer to a toll sale.
We're still selling the same amount of product but we don't account for it the same way.
So it appeared that we had a much softer quarter than we really did.
But there's not lots of seasonality say in the surfactants and amines businesses.
They're pretty consistent.
We have seen some European pressure but not significant in some of that demand.
It's a pretty pretty stable business.
Yes I would just note.
I hope that we're not talking too much in these answers here but I do think it's worth noting that what Kimo said earlier about the difference in demand in our Performance Products a great deal of that was shifting customer sales volumes into a tolling category which we typically don't count because these are under long-term contracts.
So again I hope that you got the point that as you look at the sales volumes and the revenues coming out of Performance Products it continues to be a very strong and very consistent division for us.
Research Division</strong> Yes that makes good sense.
Switching to a little bit different segment here on China wind numbers.
Insulation has obviously been weak as you pointed out.
But management teams exposed to China wind have expressed some optimism that they'll still hit some of their installation plans in 2012 and I would guess that you guys would be kind of the first to see that -- those end markets actually develop as expected as they were laid out I guess in late 2011.
So are you seeing any of those leading indicators on your side? And anything that you -- that could suggest that they might be right? Yes well I'm just looking at our year-over-year Asian sort of wind energy demand and it was down 15%.
So we haven't seen strength in wind in Asia.
Actually where we saw strength was in the Americas wind but of course Asia is a larger market for that product.
We are optimistic that that business will come back historically not only for our Advanced Materials epoxy businesses but also for our amines which are used for curing agents in wind has been a good business for us.
But it has been soft for several quarters now.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And you had sort of answered the follow-up there.
Has any other pockets it sounds like Americas but is it Brazil in particular or anything else within the Americas that looks optimistic? Relative to wind? Research Division</strong> Yes exactly.
No as I look at wind I would just comment as well that in Europe we continue to see growth opportunities in wind as well.
So I think Asia is -- we did see a falloff there but as we look at Europe which for us is a larger market than Asia for wind in our Advanced Materials group all in all we're seeing growth in the wind area.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Zekauskas with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> You were kind enough in your commentary earlier to talk about your cost per ton of TiO2 going up $350 a ton.
From what base? Is that a second quarter base or that's the year-ago base? I didn't understand.
Yes that is first quarter to second quarter not just cost but really contribution margin per unit -- excuse me I'm sorry second to third sequential second to third and it's contribution margin per ton.
Research Division</strong> It's contribution margin per ton.
So in your slides your TiO2 prices and on a local currency basis were up 1%.
And so is it the case that now you believe that your local currency prices will decrease in the third quarter and that's part of that contribution margin? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
In order of magnitude is this 5% 10% 2% 0 to 5%? Bigger than a breadbasket.
Of course we're still in the quarter and we'll see how it all comes out.
But it's single-digit percentages.
Research Division</strong> That's single-digit percentage.
Okay that's great.
Your corporate costs have been running much much lower than they were last year.
I think corporate last year in the first half was $113 million and maybe it was $83 million or so for the first half.
Will you continue to see lower corporate costs in the second half or will they level off or be higher? How does that line look? And what's behind the change? Well there's some movement in that line because of LIFO and for the quarter LIFO was a benefit of about $9 million.
So you are seeing some movement in that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And for the second half maybe flattish year-over-year or will it go up? I'm terrible at forecasting LIFO.
It's not intuitive to me frankly.
But we in our own internal forecast typically don't try to even attempt.
It has to do with lots of different products and layers and I wish frankly we didn't have it.
But it creates a little bit of noise in our own internal view frankly.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And so in Textile Effects you said that the losses would increase in the third and fourth quarter and that was sort of the pattern of last year that is you really didn't lose very much in the first half and you lost a lot in the second half.
Is that the pattern this year or the gain -- or the losses really should moderate quite a lot because of your restructuring efforts? I think that the losses really should moderate because of the restructuring starting to come in in the third and fourth quarter and I would hope personally that we are starting to see breakeven sort of economics by the end of the year due largely to our restructuring efforts.
When we see the improvement in the market that's certainly going to be on top of that.
But I think that right now Textile Effects the improvements we're going to see are going to be more around self-help and we should start seeing that in the second half of 2012.
Jeff we're not going to see brackets on that line in 2013.
Research Division</strong> Well that's good.
I've not modeled it with brackets that way.
Lastly in very rough terms in MDI when you look at your profits in the U.S.
in Europe in China sort of what are they relative to each other? How much of your MDI profits come from the U.S.
how much from China how much from Europe in just ballpark terms? Well when you -- there are different sort of regional pricing structures.
Asia tends to be not a contract market and so you might see a little bit more volatility in prices and margins.
Historically we have had probably our better margins in Europe because we probably sold more of our product there in systems frankly.
So it's not so much a market it's where we have more differentiated products and customers.
Research Division</strong> I meant in absolute terms.
Just sort of if you could divide up your MDI products and profits into those 3 regions do you make 1/2 in the U.S.
or 3/4 or...
I think we broke out what our revenues are by region.
They're not all that different.
I mean we're a little bit more profitable in Europe but it follows revenue pretty well.
So just to remind you MDI in Europe for 2011 was 39% the U.S.
was 25% Asia Pacific was 25% and Rest of the World was 11%.
It's not largely different as I said.
Sort of differentiated products will move that a bit.
Your next question comes from the line of Roger Spitz with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> In Ad Mat could you comment on what happened in liquid epoxy resin margins and also epoxy derivative margins sequentially? Looking past the sales mix would you explain? But just on a like-for-like basis what was going on with those margins? Well I think that there's probably a combination of a number of things.
On the BLR side I think that you saw an erosion in pricing that took place on the commodity and on the raw material side.
Capacity utilization rates particularly in Asia are very very low right now on the BLR side.
And I think that you're seeing that evident not just in Huntsman but in a number of competitors that has reported earnings in like applications and businesses and so forth.
I will note longer-term that as we look at the business as we look at our improvements in market share as we look at our cost improvement initiatives that we have in that business our large position on aerospace and so forth longer-term in Advanced Materials I think that by the end of this year you will see year-on-year improvement in that division.
But as you look at wind in Asia as you look at electronics in Asia and as you look at the exported BLR the base materials coming from Asia it is putting pressure on a global -- in a global market.
Research Division</strong> Where do you think industry BLR operating rates were in Q2 versus Q1? I would state that that's -- I'd say that it's probably -- in Asia it's probably operating around 70% capacity utilization rates -- excuse me in Asia it's probably closer to about 50% capacity utilization rates and you're probably better than that outside of Asia.
And therefore you're seeing a lot of exports as I mentioned earlier coming from Asia.
And that's on the BLR side.
So again as you look at the further downstream formulations and your specialty side where Huntsman plays a lot I believe that we have an opportunity to see an improvement in those areas going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Pigments can you break down sort of your fixed costs versus your total costs if you were to combine say COGS or SG&amp;A or however you'd like to discuss that? Well for what period? Of course ore prices or variable costs have changed dramatically in the last year.
On a quarterly basis.
Research Division</strong> [indiscernible].
Pardon? Research Division</strong> This past quarter Q2.
Roger we're going to need to dig that out.
We'll come back to you on it okay? Your next question comes from the line of Gregg Goodnight with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Say operating rates for titanium dioxide what were your operating rates in the second quarter? What are they now? And how do you see them progressing in the rest of the year? I think that we're seeing operating rates today are probably right around 80%.
I believe that as you see an end to this destocking that is taking place -- so when we talk about that 350-ton added pressure in the third quarter I base that on an 80% operating rate.
As we see the destocking taking place in the -- that is slowing in the third quarter I think that you're going to see operating rates move more traditionally into their 90% sort of a rate going forward.
Yes I think that seems right relative to our own numbers.
When you think about a year ago we were operating at capacity and that's lower than stated capacity.
Our effective capacity is probably around 500 000 tons as opposed to sort of 550 000 of nameplate capacity.
So think about 500 000.
We said that our demand is down sort of 20% which is kind of that 80% number that Peter's talking about.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Excellent.
The same question I had was MDI pricing.
It seems like MDI pricing got some legs in the first quarter slowed down a bit in the second quarter but now with the benzene settling at 460 do you see additional price increases where those set some level of the second quarter price increases TVA? Can you move on your pricing pretty quickly now that demand seems to be reasonably firm? Well we are seeing our average selling price up about let's see up about 5% in the second quarter in comparison to the first quarter.
So I think we made some very good headway in the second quarter.
We are pushing for an increase in pricing in the third quarter to help offset with the benzene spikes that we're seeing in the third quarter.
Too early to comment on the success of those initiatives.
Those are mostly going to be centered in North America.
And like I said in my comments I believe that the high benzene prices that you're seeing are more -- they're regional and it's a regional dislocation of supply.
So I believe that that price will be perhaps cooling a bit here as we get into the third and fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Last question if I could.
Your Chinese MDI plant has the approval to do that.
The project keeps slipping.
Some of your competitors may beat you to the line in terms of starting up their new capacity.
Are you still committed to that plant and do you expect approval anytime in the near future? Yes.
At this time we are committed to that facility.
We are frustrated with the pace of approval that is coming from the Chinese.
And all that I can say as it pertains to competitors I have seen nothing that would lead me to believe that we somehow are any slower being somehow held up or penalized in comparison to our competition.
When I talk about our competition with Chinese approval and Chinese regulators I will exclude from that the one Chinese local MDI producer.
They seem to have things on an expedited path if you will through the Chinese government.
But I don't think that any other MDI producers that are looking for expanding their capacity in China are getting any preferential treatment from what we're getting today.
So I think that we're all getting slowed down.
Just before the next caller let me just go back to Roger's question.
So if you think about cost of goods sold ore represents probably just a little less than 1/2 of our cost of goods sold and our fixed costs are a little less than 1/4 of that.
Now that's a dramatic change say in 2010 where ore was probably 25% of our costs and fixed costs were probably closer to 40% of our cost of goods sold.
So again I think in response to Roger's question around ore and fixed costs it has changed dramatically 2010 to 2012.
Your next question comes from the line of Ivan Marcuse with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Most of them have been answered.
I just have a couple of quick ones.
On raw material costs if you look at the Polyurethanes and the Performance segments how would you gauge them on a year-over-year basis in the second quarter through the baskets? As I look at raw material pricing in general it's -- obviously benzene is up at nearly a historical high level.
As we look at our price let me just figure out here on -- they -- our prices we see right now in natural gas is up slightly.
And as we look at most of our other raw materials they're pretty flat from where they've been over the last 6 months or so.
And I think if anything there's probably going to be downward pressure as you see crude looks like it's cooling just a little bit.
The one exception Peter I think you already made a point of it is that benzene sort of spike we saw here just recently and it should be -- we would expect it to fall.
Yes that would be the only -- Our other raw material prices really across the board have been fairly flat if not having a little bit of downward pressure.
I think that the falling price that we're seeing in ethylene and propylene in the overall market again we're a large buyer of propylene and ethylene.
And I think that the longer term the capacity the new capacity that's coming up particularly in North America around these products is going to benefit Huntsman on a longer-term basis.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
But you would look at the past -- the first half of the year or in the second quarter that the basket for each of those businesses were probably in general all in up on a year-over-year basis [indiscernible] digits? Of our raw materials? Research Division</strong> Yes.
No I'd say they're down.
With the exception of benzene I think most -- all of our raw material prices again that's excluding all ores going to TiO2 but I'd say that they're down on a basket.
They would -- I mean when you think about the first quarter to second quarter again they would have followed sort of the trend in crude which was down about 8% and natural gas which was down 18% sequentially.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the Performance Products it sounds like margins should continue to expand on a sequential basis.
If you put everything else -- if you put everything together you'll have -- you're not going to have the shutdown and material costs have come in a little bit and volumes tend to be hanging in there.
Is that sort of a fair assumption? Yes I'd say that as you look at our Performance Products as we look into the third quarter demand looks good raw materials are easing a little bit.
We're pushing off our maintenance.
The life of our catalysts are a little bit better than expected and so we're able to push off our maintenance until the first quarter of next year.
So yes I would agree with that.
Your final question comes from the line of Edlain Rodriguez.
Research Division</strong> Just 1 quick question on TiO2.
The trade papers are reporting that prices are going down in the U.S.
are you seeing that? Or do you -- I mean do you expect prices to be down in the U.S.
for the third quarter? We have said that a combination of price a little lower price and higher ore prices will compress margins by approximately $350 a ton.
So we do believe that global prices will ease slightly.
And again we won't comment on where that will take place on a regional basis.
We will obviously be pushing to have -- we believe that prices ought to be going up and we will be pushing prices as aggressively as we can on an upward basis.
But again I think when you look at the overall momentum we can't stand here and say that prices are going up consistently across the board.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one last one on taxes.
Like what's driving the higher tax rate? Well we have seen a greater percentage of our profitability in the second quarter relative to the first quarter and prior year in the U.S.
which is our highest effective tax rate region.
And so we are -- we saw what 33% adjusted effective tax rate in the second quarter.
We would expect to be right around 30% going forward as a long-term plan or medium-term expectation.
Our cash tax rate is closer to 25%.
All right.
Thank you everyone for joining us on the call today.
If you have additional questions please feel free to give us a call.
Thanks again.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2012 Huntsman Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Tony and I'll be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today's call Mr.
Kurt Ogden Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Tony and good morning everyone.
Joining us on the call today are Jon Huntsman our Founder and Executive Chairman; Peter Huntsman President and CEO; and Kimo Esplin Executive Vice President and CFO.
This morning before the market opened we released our earnings for the third quarter 2012 via press release and posted it on our website huntsman.com.
We also posted a set of slides on our website which we intend to use on the call this morning in the discussion of our results.
During this call we may make statements about our projections or expectations for the future.
All such statements are forward-looking statements and while they reflect our current expectations they involve risks and uncertainties and are not guarantees of future performance.
You should review our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for more information regarding the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these projections or expectations.
We do not plan on publicly updating or revising any forward-looking statements during the quarter.
In addition we also refer to non-GAAP financial measures such as EBITDA adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income or loss.
You can find reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in our earnings release which has been posted on our website at huntsman.com.
Let's turn to some highlights on Slide #2.
In our earnings release this morning we reported third quarter 2012 revenue of $2 741 000 000 adjusted EBITDA of $401 million and adjusted earnings per share of $0.70 per diluted share.
Our third quarter 2012 adjusted EBITDA was a quarterly record of $401 million compared to $346 million in the prior year and $365 million in the prior quarter.
I will now turn the call over to Peter Huntsman our President and CEO.
Thank you very much Kurt.
And I'd like to extend a special welcome to everybody this morning particularly I'd like to just acknowledge those people who are joining us in those areas -- I know many of you are from the East Coast and those people that have been adversely affected by the recent Hurricane Sandy that came through.
And I want you to know that our thoughts and our prayers are with you and we hope that you continue to make -- well seeing gradual but an eventual recovery from all these.
Let's turn to Slide #3.
Adjusted EBITDA for our Polyurethanes business in the third quarter of 2012 was $239 million an improvement of $99 million compared to the $140 million in the prior year and an improvement of $69 million compared to the prior quarter.
We have seen continued momentum in earnings improvements from our MDI products throughout the year.
We successfully raised our MDI selling prices in the quarter which more than offset the increase of raw materials cost we experienced.
Led by improvements in our Asia Pacific region our average selling price for the division increased 5% compared to the prior year and 4% compared to the prior quarter in local currency terms.
The cost of our largest raw material benzene continues its trend upward and will continue to be a headwind.
However if utilization rates tighten we expect margins to continue to expand.
Compared to the prior year sales volumes for our MDI products increased 5%.
Our largest market within Europe installation adhesives coatings elastomers and composite wood products all grew at double-digit rates.
In North America we are seeing positive indications that a housing recovery is underway as we saw attractive demand for our composite wood products and appliances in the quarter.
Additionally we saw a strong double-digit increase in demand in the North American automotive market.
In Asia we saw strong double-digit demand growth in our largest markets: Installation adhesives coatings and elastomers.
We experienced robust earnings from our propylene oxide and MTBE business during the quarter.
A combination of lower-priced raw materials notably benzene industry supply outages and strong pricing led to attractive margins.
Our PO/MTBE earnings were better in the third quarter than in the first quarter of this year.
However I want to emphasize that the majority of our earnings improvements that we've seen in our Polyurethanes business of $62 million measured from the first quarter of this year to the third has come from our MDI products.
Let's turn to Slide #4.
In the third quarter our Performance Products division earned $107 million of adjusted EBITDA an improvement of $10 million compared to the prior year and an increase of $22 million over the prior quarter.
Demand was steady and we benefited during the quarter from lower raw material cost most notably for our North American surfactants and maleic anhydride businesses which benefited from the lower cost of ethylene and butane.
During the first quarter of 2013 we will perform maintenance at our olefins and ethylene oxide in certain downstream derivative facilities in Port Neches Texas.
This maintenance occurs every 4 years.
We expect the EBITDA impact to be approximately $40 million to $50 million.
Let's turn to Slide #5.
Adjusted EBITDA in the third quarter in our Advanced Materials division was $30 million an improvement of $4 million compared to the prior year.
While we still have much room for improvement this is the first quarter in 2 years this division exceeded the earnings of the prior year and previous quarter.
During the third quarter of this year we saw improved demand for most of our products.
Sales volumes improved in all regions with the exception of Asia Pacific where we continue to see softer Chinese demand for electronics power and wind energy.
We've previously indicated we expect conditions for these Chinese markets to remain difficult at least through the remainder of this year.
We are seeing attractive pockets of growth in the aerospace and in the Do-It-Yourself consumer adhesive end markets which make up approximately 25% of our earnings in this business.
In September we announced our intent to expand our specialty resins capacity in Macintosh Alabama.
When completed in late 2014 we will be able to better serve the aerospace and composites industries and take advantage of this continued growth.
Let's turn to Slide #6.
Our Textile Effects division reported an adjusted EBITDA loss of $10 million for the third quarter.
While we are disappointed with any negative earnings in our company we are starting to see the impact of our restructuring take place in this division as this division improved by $19 million compared to the prior year.
Sales volumes improved 15% in the third quarter compared to the previous year primarily as a result of market share gains.
As we track consumer confidence levels in retail data in major markets we are cautiously optimistic we will see improvements in the U.S.
resulting in order improvements in China and Southeast Asia whereas Europe continues to decline.
We expect market share gains to continue as we introduce new products and partner with the right customers.
As demonstrated in our year-over-year improved results we are proceeding slightly ahead of our plan on a $75 million restructuring efforts and remain confident in our ability to complete this program by the end of 2013 delivering full year savings beginning in 2014.
Let's turn to Slide #7.
Our Pigments division earned $72 million of adjusted EBITDA in the third quarter.
Compared to the second quarter our contribution margin decreased approximately $350 per metric ton before the impact of foreign currency which is consistent with the guidance we provided on our last earnings call.
Global demand for TiO2 was weak in the third quarter.
Our sales volumes decreased 30% compared to the prior year.
Volumes principally declined in Asia Pacific and Europe where we saw a number of factors negatively impacting demand at the same time namely lower consumer and infrastructure spending our customers consuming the excess TiO2 they had purchased during 2011 and the optimization of the use of TiO2 and end product formulations.
We believe the trend in the third quarter will continue into the fourth quarter in terms of lower contribution margins and softer volumes when compared to the prior year.
We believe that destocking will be completed by the end of the fourth quarter and demand will stabilize and gradually pickup in the first half of 2013.
We think the ore feedstock markets will lag the TiO2 markets by a couple of quarters.
The impact of lower TiO2 production volumes is already being seen in the demand for the very highest grade feedstocks such as rutiles.
As TiO2 producers further optimize feedstock blends we believe this impact will flow through to other high-grade feedstock markets.
With our large sulfate capacity we are in a unique position to take advantage of the lowest-priced ores in producing our TiO2.
We expect further margin pressure in the next quarter or 2.
Throughout 2013 we expect a recovery to a more stable and healthy level of earnings.
Before sharing some concluding thoughts I would like to turn a few minutes over to Kimo Esplin our Chief Financial Officer.
Thanks Peter.
Let's turn to Slide 8.
In the third quarter of 2012 our adjusted EBITDA increased to $401 million from $346 million in the prior year.
The primary reason for this year-over-year increase was an improvement in margins as raw materials decreased at a faster pace than our average selling prices.
Sales volumes decreased most notably within our Pigments businesses.
Compared to the second quarter of this year our third quarter adjusted EBITDA increased from $365 million to $401 million.
The increase was primarily attributable to lower SG&amp;A costs and indirect costs.
Keep in mind that the majority of benefits from our restructuring programs won't be realized until 2013.
Slide 9.
Our year-over-year consolidated sales revenue for the third quarter decreased 8% primarily as a result of the strengthening of the U.S.
dollar against major international currencies which had a negative 5% impact on the revenues.
Our total company average selling price decreased 1% adjusted for the impact of foreign currencies while our sales volumes decreased 2% compared to the prior year.
Regionally our sales decreased 15% in each of our North American and European markets which represent approximately 60% of our revenue.
In the Asia Pacific region sales revenue decreased to more modest 4%; whereas our Rest of World category which includes the emerging markets such as Central and South America and the Middle East improved 20%.
The Rest of the World category comprises 19% of our revenue in the quarter.
Our Polyurethane business is our largest and made up 44% of our total revenue in the third quarter.
Its revenue increased 3%.
However I'd like to point out that our urethanes market which consists of MDI products increased 5%.
The key trend that Peter just mentioned is volumetric demand which increased 5% for our MDI products compared to the prior year as key end markets such as insulation in Europe grew at double-digit rates.
Our Performance Products business which is our second largest revenue contributor recorded a revenue decrease of 12% primarily due to a shift to tolling arrangements impacting our sales volume which is excluded from our change in revenue calculations.
Including tolls our volumes were flat compared to the prior year.
Compared to the prior quarter consolidated sales revenue decreased 6%.
A 3% decrease in our sales mix accounted for the most -- for most of the revenue decrease as average selling prices adjusted for the impact of FX decreased 1%; and foreign currency accounted for 2% of the decrease.
Let's turn to Slide 10.
At the end of the quarter we had approximately $1 billion of cash and unused borrowing capacity.
Accompanying our record quarterly EBITDA results of $401 million we had minimal working capital usage of $10 million in the quarter.
As a result our cash flow from operations was a healthy $200 million.
During the third quarter we prepaid $75 million of the outstanding term loans.
Further earlier this week we prepaid an additional $50 million of outstanding term loans.
Reducing our debt remains a priority of our management team and our board.
Our current net debt to last 12 months adjusted EBITDA is 2.3x.
Our target is to have a sustainable net debt leverage of 2x to 2.5x.
This morning we announced our intent to issue approximately $300 million of senior notes due 2020.
We intend to repay a similar amount on our outstanding 5.5% senior notes due 2016 which would create immediate recognition of an unamortized noncash discount charge of approximately $55 million in the first -- in the fourth quarter.
In addition to extending the maturity of this debt by 4 years we expect the interest rate on the notes to be lower and generate interest savings for the company.
We spent $85 million on capital expenditures in the third quarter.
In 2012 we expect to spend approximately $425 million to $450 million on capital expenditures which approximates our annual depreciation and amortization.
We are investing in several growth opportunities.
In August we commenced design feasibility studies to expand our MDI capacity at our Geismar Louisiana facility.
The global market for MDI products is expected to continue to grow strongly and with the benefits of North American shale gas the economics of investing in our North American facilities has improved significantly.
In addition as Peter mentioned earlier in September we announced our intent to expand our specialty resins capacity in Macintosh Alabama to better serve the aerospace and composite industries and take advantage of growth in those high-value markets.
I'll turn it back to Peter.
Thank you Kimo.
At the beginning of the year we told investors that our focus for 2012 would be on the quality as well as the quantity of our earnings.
It was our objective to offset the expected decrease in TiO2 earnings with improvements from our other businesses.
Our TiO2 earnings have decreased faster than expected.
However all of our other businesses are reporting stronger year-over-year EBITDA performance.
I have never had -- we've never had this level of earnings with this broad a balance from different businesses.
I believe that this earnings profile should give us a stronger multiple than we've had over the past few years.
I am more pleased with the mix of our earnings than I am the aggregate amount.
While there remains plenty of global uncertainty we remain optimistic about the future and see ample reasons for this.
Among other things we will continue to benefit from our customers' applications and geographic footprint.
Beginning last year we took early and aggressive actions to restructure our business and improve our earnings profile.
These projects will be completed by the end of 2013 and will yield annual benefits of more than $150 million.
We are well-positioned to benefit further as the U.S.
and Asian economies recover.
Our natural gas consuming manufacturing basis disproportionately located in North America and utilization rates for most of our products are improving.
In the fourth quarter we expect a normal seasonal decrease in demand.
Our fourth quarter EBITDA of $243 million last year was the best in our company's history.
Although we expect our fourth quarter Pigments EBITDA this year to be more than $100 million worse compared to 2011 I expect to finish 2012 with an equally strong fourth quarter as last year capping what should be another record year for earnings.
In short I'm immensely proud of what this team has accomplished for our shareholders this year.
With that I'll turn the time over to Kurt.
Thank you Peter.
Tony that concludes our prepared remarks.
Would you explain the procedure for questions and answers and then open the line for questions? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of P.J.
Juvekar of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just quickly.
You talked about shifting raw materials around in your TiO2.
Can you talk about how you're shifting between ilmenite and sulfate slag given the delta between the 2? Sure.
We are spending capital in some of our sulfate slag plants to be able to consume more and more ilmenite in that mix.
In some cases it is smaller in some cases it's larger.
We are also finding that we can blend ilmenite ores with slag in both chloride and sulfate plants.
It has the effect of reducing our capacity.
But in the slow demand environment that's not as big an issue.
But we are able to in fact consume more ilmenite both through major capital expenditure and also by just mixing smaller amounts of ilmenite with other ores that typically are consumed in those plants.
Currently P.J.
we're currently using just about slightly over 50% of our raw materials ilmenite ores which is costing somewhere between $250 and $300 per ton.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And just sticking to TiO2 can you talk about where are your inventory levels compared to the industry? I think in the past you have said that your inventories are lower than the industry average.
And then do you anticipate sort of margins in the low 20% EBITDA margins going forward? I'm sorry I didn't catch the last part of your question about margins? Research Division</strong> Sorry.
The margins -- do you anticipate EBITDA margins to be around this low 20% range? Well on today's inventory the industry we believe is operating today at around 100 days of inventory and we'd probably be -- we are slightly less than that.
As we look at the margin we saw our margins per ton drop by about $350 a ton from the second to the third quarter.
I would expect margins from the third quarter to the fourth quarter to drop at about that same amount in the fourth quarter.
Now again similar to the guidance we gave last time we saw a decrease in demand during that time period as well.
But P.J.
again I'm just speaking from what I see in the market and speaking to customers and so forth.
I think that when we talk about the diminishment of inventories and so forth particularly on the customer end I think that much of that destocking certainly the vast majority of it should be complete I believe around year end.
And as we get in the first quarter of next year we ought to start seeing a replenishment a gradual pickup in demand throughout the year and margins returning to a more sustainable rate than we'll see in the fourth quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Ritzenthaler of Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up to P.J.'s question on the spread between rutile and ilmenite.
Is there something that we can read into the feedstock price stability based on that spread and the effects from a typical chloride plant? Well certainly.
A chloride plant is consuming rutile and a chloride slag is going to be a higher-cost plant.
It could be as much as $500 a ton higher cost between a chloride-based plant that's consuming slag and rutile and 100% ilmenite plant.
So there is certainly a cost advantage to sulfate ilmenite and chloride ilmenite for that matter.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And then on the cost -- on the price stability of the ores there is there anything that we can read into going forward where the ores might go? Well we're seeing the higher-cost ores come down.
Ilmenite has been fairly flat.
It didn't really move that much but certainly rutile and synthetic rutile have been coming down.
Just to give you an idea on that if you look out from the beginning of last year ilmenite ores have gone from kind of the $150 a ton up to the $250 $300 a ton.
When you look at rutiles again these are just on average they've gone from $600 to $700 a ton up to $2 000 a ton.
And so a massive swing in average pricing at that time period.
Yes.
I think in fact earlier this year we saw rutile prices go to $2 700 a ton and have come back probably are closer to that $2 000 that Peter mentioned.
Research Division</strong> Okay sure.
And then on urethanes if we look at the peak trough estimates that you've put forth in the past and we make a couple of modest assumptions for 4Q based on your commentary going forward it looks like that business in 2012 may be approaching 80% or 85% of kind of that estimated peak EBITDA.
Has that business changed fundamentally enough and has Huntsman's ability to capture margin changes not that we may need to be thinking about a higher peak? I certainly think that's possible right? Remember when we thought about peak economics it was just 2005 sort of contribution margin per pound on today's current volumes.
I think relative to 2005 propylene oxide MTBE is much more profitable.
And certainly we could -- if things got really tight we could see in fact higher margins than we saw in 2005.
Yes.
Let's remember since 2005 we've invested in the further downstream capacity of system houses.
Again that's the ability to take MDI and further blend it further formulate it and specialize it if you will.
All of our plants since 2005 have gone through some element of cost reductions and also manufacturing improvements productivity improvements cost improvements.
And as you look today we are selling more variants and more variations of different grades of MDI into the markets and do a wider spread of end-use customers.
So yes I would just say what Kimo said I think that as we look at with what peak is similar to the last peak it didn't have a tremendous amount of correlation with the previous peak.
As we try to model where we are going the industry still is operating.
In some parts around the world they are probably a bit below 90% other parts around the world are probably a bit around 90%.
So somewhere in that operating rate around 90%.
Certainly if you get up in that 95% 96% where the industry is effectively sold out I think that you're probably recalibrating and looking at a new sort of a peak.
It's certainly a different business over the last decade.
Your next question comes from the line of Frank Mitsch of Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> The this is Sabina Chatterjee in for Frank Mitsch.
Just a question on TiO2 again.
Peter you had said earnings deteriorated faster than you had expected in Q3.
Can you just speak to which markets or regions performed worse? And was it driven more by volumes or pricing? And then specifically on pricing we've heard of prices being down in the high single-digit range in North America.
How's that been evolving here in Q4? Well first of all let me just clarify when I said that conditions were worse that was from the start of the year not -- I didn't mean to say anything in the third quarter.
A matter of fact as we go back a quarter I think we gave guidance in the third quarter that we'd be down about $350 a ton and I think our actual numbers were $362.
So I think we've given an extremely accurate forecast for the third quarter as to where we thought we'd be.
I think that when I go back and when I look at comments that I said at the beginning of the year we were expecting TiO2 to drop margins to come down.
And I do believe that they have fallen faster certainly than I had expected at the beginning of the year.
And I probably at the beginning of the year was being accused of being overly dour by some of my colleagues in the industry.
So -- and when I look at those reasons again we're seeing a falloff of economic demand in Europe.
I think in 2011 the industry our customers bought more product than perhaps we had known.
And I think when prices were going up as rapidly as they were I think that our customers by and large stockpiled as much inventory as they possibly could.
And obviously TiO2 consumers particularly in the paint area tried to get by with as much Chinese sulfate blended into their product and using as little TiO2.
And I think a combination of all of those probably exasperated 2012 to be a worse year than otherwise.
But conversely I would just remind you that we also said at that time that our businesses would also pick up the slack across the board.
And as I said earlier all of our divisions were performing better in the third quarter with the exception of TiO2 than they were a year ago.
And I would just say as I did in TiO2 they're performing better than I would've expected even at the beginning of the year.
As we look at the fourth quarter for TiO2 again I think that we will put the same sort of a forecast in place that we did the last call since we believe that margins will drop another $350 or so per ton.
But I believe that the inventory destocking that is taking place I believe that it will come to an end around the end of the year.
Just again look at anecdotally and speak with our customers I believe that the 2013 will be something of a year of a gradual recovery throughout the year a more stable year than what we've seen this year.
Just to comment on regions and what we're seeing in terms of industry volumes.
As Peter mentioned of course Europe is the toughest industry.
Year-over-year that was at nearly 30% down volumetrically in terms of demand.
And you would expect with Huntsman's portfolio heavily weighted to Europe we were closer to that 30% down.
But all regions were down double-digit.
We think that the U.S.
North America was probably down about 20%; APAC was down real close just a little less than 20%.
So really the fifth quarter in a row we've seen global year-over-year demand rates down.
Relative to pricing I think it's safe to say that probably North America is the highest-priced region in dollar terms but all of them have been trending the same in terms of prices.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just on the Polyurethanes it sounds like MDI was the driver of really strong results.
Can you just speak specifically to the contribution from MTBE however? You've sized the -- I mean how do you size the benefit from the competitor outages? And looking forward to Q4 what should we expect in the absence of those outages and getting seasonality? I think that we said in the first quarter that this company benefited about $50 million or $60 million and in large part if not in total because of outages that we experienced in the first quarter.
I would say that the third quarter results were quite similar to the first quarter results and that the outages probably accounted for about half that much benefit around $25 million to $30 million of the Q3 benefit that we saw.
So a sizable number.
But again the real drivers for MTBE is the price of gasoline and the spread between your raw materials.
And I believe that Huntsman is in a very unique position for our raw materials our North American gas space.
And we're selling into a market where the prices are set by gasolines that are valued on largely Brent C pricing.
So as we go into the fourth quarter again our major raw materials are methanol and butane for MTBE; butane more so than methanol.
Butane prices typically in the fourth quarter just seasonally every year; because butanes are blended into gasoline there's a higher demand for them.
Butane price typically go up in the fourth quarter.
So as we look into the fourth quarter I would expect the MTBE margins and what we've seen thus far in the fourth quarter to be diminishing.
However I would say that some of that is going to be offset by the propylene oxide side of the business and the MDI side of the business.
They can't look at MTBE in a vacuum it's part of the propylene oxide production.
The demand there also greatly benefits that business.
Your next question comes from the line of Laurence Alexander from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions.
First on the Polyurethanes segment.
If you hold the PO/MTBE part of the segment flat is it fair to say that the mix shift in MDI is enough to drive maybe 100 200 basis points of additional margin expansion over the next year 1.5 years? Well yes at least.
Sure.
[indiscernible] I think we showed EBITDA margins in 2005 of 22% 23% something like that Laurence.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then looking at TiO2 did I hear correctly on one of the earlier comments that there is actually a scenario where 2013 TiO2 profits could be above 2012? And then particularly if you look at the first half of the year where you have sort of your contracts resetting before the coating season really restarts what factors can you point to to prevent the first half of the year from being more similar to 2009 levels? Well I think when we look at the performance of 2013 I'd be very surprised if it's better than 2012 from an earnings perspective just because of the rapid falloffs we've seen in the third and fourth quarter.
Again I see a gradual recovery in a more stable market environment 2013 but I don't think we've represented that it would be a better year than 2012.
I think we said -- Peter's made it clear that fourth quarter we're going to see contribution margins per ton squeezed similar to what we saw in the third quarter.
And my guess is that the first quarter will look a little bit like the fourth quarter.
It would be -- if we see rebounded demand you could see the second half of 2013 start to look a little bit like the first half of 2012 if we see some recovery.
But we think that that is possible as normalized rates and normalized demand could be in the low 90% range.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Then just to clarify when you say the first half might be a little bit more like the fourth quarter it's first quarter might be more like the fourth quarter is that a function of volumes or was that marked as you think pricing will move up to offset the contract resets? Well I think you have to think through sort of destocking being completed in Asia and in North America Europe in the fourth quarter.
And then I think that the producers have to destock as well.
And it's really going to take the first half of 2013 for inventories to be righted and to start to see utilization rates throughout the industry pick up.
Your next question comes from the line of Edlain Rodriguez of Lazard Capital.
Research Division</strong> Peter just one a quick question on Polyurethanes.
I mean how sustainable do you think the price increases in MDI are? I mean is demand strong enough to allow you to continue to raise prices there? Well yes I think that they are.
We have successfully implemented price increases in October.
We've gone out this last week with December price increases.
Obviously I'm not in a position to represent how the December price increases will turn out but we ought to get a very large portion if not all of it.
And I think that those price increases will be more than enough to offset the recent increases we've seen in raw materials and then some.
So we -- I believe that the demand is such it's robust enough that it ought to be able to offset rises in raw material and also make a little bit more.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And also one quick question geographically like how much deceleration are you seeing in Europe? Because in the past you've talked about the difference between Northern Europe and Southern Europe.
Is this still holding or are you seeing that sort of deceleration in Northern Europe? I think that when we look at Northern and Southern Europe that it's probably fairly similar.
I would just -- from what we've said in the past I would add another dimension of that perhaps and talk about Eastern Europe.
When we talk about Eastern Europe we've seen stronger growth yet taking place and that would be several hundred thousand new homes that are being re-insulated and to meet new government standards in Turkey.
As we look in the Russian markets with the recent acquisition that we have there and that's going into the specialty adhesives and coatings and elastomer markets.
We have a recent acquisition as well with systems house in Turkey that we're in the process of integrating that's doing really quite well.
So as we look at Europe we kind of look at the southern part of Europe the northern part of Western Europe then you look at the Eastern markets and in the areas of OSB the oriented strand board for construction.
This is an area that's growing at double-digit.
You look at the insulation market growing at double-digit the footwear industry.
The automotive markets were obviously been hit but not nearly as hard as the overall sector because of the higher-end cars that we sell into.
So as we look at year-on-year our Northern European is up 5% southern Europe is down about 16% and Eastern Europe would be exceeding that of Northern Europe.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And just one final question.
Going back to Polyurethanes given the benefit you've had from PO/MTBE in 2012 can you see 2013 being a stronger year than 2012? No.
A lot of that would depend on what you see.
Edlain are you talking about MTBE in 2013? Research Division</strong> I'm talking about the whole Polyurethanes market but yes.
I would say that MTBE probably ought to look like 2012 -- 2013 ought to look like 2012 assuming that the gasoline demand assuming that crude oil prices and gas prices in North America stay the same.
And again we've kind of led the market to the idea that there's been about anywhere from $80 million to $90 million of benefit to our business because of industry outage.
MTBE plants usually run more consistent better than they have this past year.
So I'm not sure that I would book that advantage into next year.
As I look at MDI and I look at the amount of capacity that's coming into the market globally virtually none in North America virtually none in Western -- or in Europe.
And what we see coming on in Asia is the single producer in the next 12 months that will be bringing capacity into the market.
From what I understand as that capacity comes onstream I don't see any reason why utilization rates should improve through 2013.
Utilization rates are obviously causing a tightening in the market and an opportunity for us to raise prices.
The next question comes from the line of Jeff Zekauskas of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> In the quarter you took $51 million or so in restructuring charges.
What did you restructure and what will be the cash component of that charge? And of the $150 million in restructuring benefits that you expect to get in the future how would you allocate that by division? I would say the $150 million about 75 -- about 1/2 of that is going to be going into Textile Effects and -- let's see here.
About -- yes about $75 million that's going to Textile Effects about $70 million $75 million going into Polyurethanes and the rest of that should be going into Advanced Materials a little bit in Pigments.
So almost the entire charge in the third quarter was Polyurethanes.
And we saw at the beginning of the fourth quarter about 1/3 of the people that we have -- are letting go have left.
So we're probably in the fourth quarter as we sit 1/3 of the way through that benefit.
That $50 million should almost entirely be sort of cash restructuring largely severance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And -- okay I can follow up on that.
Second when you look at the TiO2 capacity additions in China in call it 2011 2012 how many tons do you think they added to the global industry and how have they changed the global utilizations supply-demand balance? We kind of think about China as about 100 000 tons of additional sulfate capacity a year.
And let me just add to that that I think one of the biggest misconceptions and perceptions of the TiO2 industry is the idea that somehow chloride is a product of the future sulfate the product of the past.
I mean as you look at all the capacity that's been added to this industry in the last couple of years it's all been sulfate.
I'm yet to meet a single paying customer that's willing to pay anything more for chloride than for sulfate.
And so I hope that -- I recognize that our margins are dropping in TiO2 but we still have a very very competitive business.
I believe at this time the right technology consuming the right raw materials and looking at the competitiveness of that.
So sulfate continues to be a very strong product and the product of choice throughout Asia and Europe and many other parts of the world.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly just a point of clarification.
Your urethanes profits were up $100 million year-over-year and they were up about $190 million for the 9 months.
Of the $100 million and the $190 million in rough terms how much of that was PO/MTBE benefit? We're just trying to go through some numbers here.
It's about -- if you're looking at sort of the 9 months over 9 months it's about 1/2 and 1/2.
Research Division</strong> In urethanes? Yes.
Peter made the point first quarter to third quarter it was largely urethanes.
But if you look at it on a 9-month basis it's roughly 1/2 MDI-half deal.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin McCarthy of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on the disaggregation of Polyurethanes if we look at the 9 months as a whole can you give us a rough sense of the aggregate contribution of MTBE and related products to the overall segment profitability? Would it be more than 1/3 at this point or less than 1/3? I think that would be helpful.
Kevin we haven't broken that out in the past in terms of what percentage it is.
We've been talking more about sort of what the change has been and what the contributors are to that change.
One of the reasons is because obviously propylene oxide is integrated right through to our polyols and our systems businesses.
And so we haven't broken that out in the past.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Maybe if I just come at it at another direction and focus on the sequential increase in EBITDA which looks to be about $69 million 239 versus 170.
How much of that might have been PO/MTBE versus MDI and other urethane products? So I'm sorry again.
Kevin you're looking sequential second quarter to third quarter contribution? Research Division</strong> Correct.
Yes.
So the 239 in EBITDA that you reported looks like it was up about $69 million relative to the second quarter.
Was most of that MTBE or did MDI rise sequentially in profitability as well? It was roughly 50-50 again except for the $25 million Peter pointed to in terms of increased MTBE economics so add $25 million to that.
So of the 70 it was roughly 1/2 and 1/2 except for that 25.
So it's kind of 1/3 2/3 because of the outage.
Research Division</strong> Okay very good.
And then Kimo just had a question on Slide 8 where you disaggregate the EBITDA bridge there.
If I look at the bridge there's a positive contribution from other/FX both year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter.
I guess for most of the companies we cover foreign exchange has been a headwind.
And I was just wondering if you could speak to the composition of that and what is driving the positive net effect in that category? Sure.
Well FX was a benefit because we had a lot of assets sitting in Europe where U.S.
dollar obviously appreciated against those fixed costs.
So net-net all the way through from -- top line it impacted the business negatively by 5% on the top line through the fixed costs it's a net benefit.
I just want to just emphasize once again when we look at our facility that produces MTBE we're producing nearly 0.5 billion pounds 250 000 metric tons of propylene oxide which we believe to be some of the -- we're sold out in that high demand good margin.
It's a value-added component for the urethane side of the business.
So I just want to make sure that we look at that end of the business when we talk about PO/MTBE it's not all just MTBE.
Let me just add just a little bit more sort of to Kevin's question around trying to break out that Other and FX line on Slide 8.
I want to point to the fact that we have improved our fixed cost position on a year-over-year basis by $30 million of that $40 million.
So FX benefit in EBITDA terms was about $10 million fixed cost benefit about $30 million.
Gentleman your next question comes from the line of Gregg Goodnight of UBS.
Research Division</strong> I note that November benzene sold at $490 a gallon up pretty substantially at record levels.
Could you please update us on your formula-based pricing surcharge for benzene? And what percentage of your North American customers are on this formula-based pricing? Well about 40% of our U.S.
customers are on this formula-based pricing whereby their price will automatically move with the price of benzene and also with the price of natural gas to take some of that volatility out of their pricing.
But the majority of our customers obviously around the world the vast majority are -- we've moved the price as markets will dictate.
And as I said earlier we've moved the price up in October with a $0.06 per pound increase.
We've announced a $0.10 per pound increase in December.
And assuming that we get those increases fully implemented or even partially implemented we will more than offset the rising cost.
And that -- the price you're absolutely right on benzene is a record-level high on benzene.
And so I think that we're in a good position whether we have formula pricing or not to offset that rise in benzene cost.
Research Division</strong> Peter you actually anticipated my second question so I'll move on to my third question.
Titanium dioxide pricing you mentioned that margins are going to be down.
I'm interested in the momentum of pricing softening in TiO2.
If you look at October pricing how would you compare that in terms of the magnitude of the decrease compared to September? I'm not sure.
As we look at the individual pricing on that -- if pricing looks to be fairly stable between 1 month to the next between August moving into September.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
From -- I'm looking actually from September to October.
Is the price continuing to decrease? Is it about the same level of decrease as September? Or is it a little bit early to make that call? Yes.
I have not seen -- I've seen some volume reports early coming in.
From October I've not seen any pricing reports yet.
So I'd just be stabbing in the dark and that's a dangerous thing for me to do.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Koort from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> This is Neal Sangani on for Bob.
Just had a question on the TiO2 outlook.
A lot of your peers have talked about the Chinese situation and not having a lot of visibility there until the Chinese New Year.
Is there anything you've specifically seen in that end market? Are there customers there that gives you a little bit more visibility? As we look at sort of our demand trends September really was the first month we have seen demand at sort of normalized levels in China specifically.
So it leads us to believe that we are starting to see Asian destocking come to an end.
We have seen for several months Asian demand well below our sort of 5-year average norms.
And we -- I don't know if 1 month makes a trend but it started to feel like at the end of the quarter we were coming to the end of that destocking.
As we look at the Asian kind of global economy Asia feels like -- in a lot of our products it feels like specifically with China that there are a lot more positive signs out there than negative signs.
With the election coming up and as the new government -- well I'm not sure about the election but with the new government taking power here I think that early next year just from anecdotal visits with customers and people in the region I think this next year we're going to be seeing some growth returning more aggressively to Asia perhaps than the trend we've seen over the course of the last couple of quarters.
So we're quite bullish as we look in the region and think that we're very well-positioned to take advantage of it.
Tony that concludes our call.
We want to thank everybody for joining us.
And if anyone has additional questions that we didn't cover today feel free to give us a call and we're happy to engage.
But thanks again for joining us today.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes your presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a great weekend.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q4 2012 Huntsman Corporation's Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Alex and I'll be your operator today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
And now I'd like to hand the call over to Kurt Ogden Vice President of Investor Relations.
Go ahead please sir.
Thank you Alex and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Huntsman's Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
Joining us on the call today are Jon Huntsman our Founder and Executive Chairman; Peter Huntsman President and CEO; and Kimo Esplin Executive Vice President and CFO.
This morning before the market opened we released our earnings for the fourth quarter and full year 2012 via press release and posted it on our website huntsman.com.
We also posted a set of slides on our website which we intend to use on the call this morning in the discussion of our results.
During this call we may make statements about our projections or expectations for the future.
All such statements are forward-looking statements.
And while they reflect our current expectations they involve risks and uncertainties and are not guarantees of future performance.
You should review our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for more information regarding the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these projections or expectations.
We do not plan on publicly updating or revising any forward-looking statements during the quarter.
In addition we will also refer to non-GAAP financial measures such as EBITDA adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income or loss.
You can find reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in our earnings release which has been posted on our website at huntsman.com.
Let's turn to some highlights on Slide #2.
In our earnings release this morning we reported fourth quarter 2012 revenue of $2 619 000 000; adjusted EBITDA of $233 million; and adjusted earnings per share of $0.24 per diluted share.
Our full year 2012 adjusted EBITDA was a record $1 396 000 000.
I will now turn the call over to Peter Huntsman our President and CEO.
Thank you Kurt.
Good morning everybody and thank you for taking the time to join us.
Let's turn to Slide #3.
Adjusted EBITDA for our Polyurethanes division in the fourth quarter 2012 was $186 million an improvement of $107 million compared to $79 million in the prior year.
The majority of the EBITDA increase came from the improvements in our MDI urethanes business.
Despite the weak global economy demand for our MDI products is growing at historical rates.
Fourth quarter sales volumes increased by 7%.
Including our acquisitions in Turkey and Russia our sales volumes increased by 9%.
In North America we've seen a modest recovery in the housing market.
However our penetration in composite wood products has accelerated and grew at double-digit rates throughout the year.
We believe that in 2013 with housing starts of approximately 900 000 our MDI sales volumes in composite wood products will approximate peak levels in 2006 when housing starts were nearly 2 million units.
Composite wood adhesives represents approximately 15% of our total MDI sales volumes.
However in the Americas it represents approximately 1/4.
In the Americas we saw total MDI demand improve at double-digit rates in the fourth quarter and growth in the composite wood products was the biggest contributor.
During the fourth quarter we successfully raised our MDI selling prices and were able to offset the increase in raw material costs.
The cost of our largest raw material benzene increased by approximately 50% in the Americas compared to the prior year period and may continue to be a headwind.
However as utilization rates tighten we expect MDI margins to continue to expand.
We blend propylene oxide-based polyols with MDI to create specific polyurethanes system solutions for our customers.
In the U.S.
we manufacture our own propylene oxide.
MTBE is a by-product of our manufacturing process.
The combination of strong pricing and lower-priced butane led to an improvement in margins in the quarter and the year.
In November we entered into a joint venture agreement with Sinopec to build a worldscale PO/MTBE facility in China.
In January we broke ground at the site of our construction.
The facility is expected to be completed by the end of 2014.
We will have a 49% interest in the unconsolidated joint venture and our equity investment will be approximately $120 million before any licensing income.
This partnership represents a unique opportunity to leverage our manufacturing technology and build a strong relationship with China's largest and one of its most respected companies.
In 2012 we estimate our Polyurethanes division benefited by approximately $90 million as a result of MTBE industry supply outages which we don't expect to repeat in 2013.
However we believe that continued improvements in our MDI business and the benefits of our $75 million cost reduction initiative of which approximately 40% will be realized in 2013 compared to 2012 will compensate for most of the nonrecurring PO/MTBE earnings such that our Polyurethanes earnings in 2013 should be similar to 2012.
Turning to Slide #4.
In the fourth quarter our Performance Products division earned $79 million of adjusted EBITDA an improvement of $19 million compared to $60 million in the prior year.
Earnings improvements primarily as a result of higher sales volumes and higher contribution margins for amines.
We also saw a strong improvement in contribution margins for our maleic anhydride and North American intermediates business which benefits from the lower cost of ethylene and butane.
During the first quarter of 2013 we are performing scheduled maintenance on our olefins and ethylene oxide facilities in Port Neches Texas.
This maintenance occurs once every 4 years.
We plan to complete the maintenance by the end of February and expect the EBITDA impact to be approximately $45 million in the first quarter.
Led by a continued recovery in amine margins we expect a full year 2013 EBITDA for Performance Products to be similar to 2012 offsetting the estimated $45 million impact of our scheduled maintenance.
Turning to Slide #5.
Adjusted EBITDA in the fourth quarter in our Advanced Materials division was a disappointing $6 million compared to $15 million in the prior year.
Weak economic conditions in key global markets combined with rising fixed costs and continued volatility in the cost of our raw materials have led us to implement a comprehensive restructuring of this business.
In January we announced a program designed to improve efficiencies and increase our global competitiveness in this division.
We expect the program to be completed by the middle of 2014 with future annual benefits of approximately $70 million of which an estimated $25 million will be realized in 2013 compared to 2012.
We expect the EBITDA from our Advanced Materials division to improve in 2013 primarily as a result of these restructuring benefits.
Turning to Slide #6.
Our Textile Effects division reported adjusted EBITDA of $1 million in the fourth quarter which represents an improvement of $23 million compared to the prior year loss of $22 million.
We are encouraged by the direction this division has headed.
Our sales volumes improved at double-digit rates in the key markets of Turkey Brazil India and China.
This growth is in large part due to market share gains as we introduce new products into the marketplace and partner with the right customer.
Our restructuring efforts are proceeding slightly ahead of plan the benefits of which are improving our bottom line.
When complete in the end of 2013 we expect the full benefits of these efforts to yield approximately $75 million of savings.
Approximately $40 million will be realized in 2013 compared to 2012.
We expect positive EBITDA contribution from our Textile Effects division in 2013.
Let's move to Slide #7.
Our Pigments division earned $10 million of adjusted EBITDA in the fourth quarter.
Global sales volumes decreased 17% compared to the prior year and 2% compared to the prior quarter.
The Asia Pacific region was a bright spot however as destocking appears to have come to an end resulting in positive year-over-year sales growth.
We believe industry inventories remain elevated at the producer level close to 100 days.
Ours is closer to 75 days at the end of the year.
We further scaled back our production in the fourth quarter which resulted in approximately $15 million of unabsorbed fixed costs in the quarter.
So we think about the business having operated at a $25 million run rate in the fourth quarter when adjusted for the lower production rate.
In the fourth -- in the first quarter we expect sales volumes to be slightly higher than the fourth.
However we expect an additional decline in contribution margin of approximately $300 per ton primarily from lower selling prices.
This view suggests that based upon current operating conditions our Pigments business earnings will bottom out in the first quarter of this year.
We believe volumes and selling prices will improve in the second half of 2013 following the paint season.
We also expect to see the benefit of cost-reduction programs across our business during the second half of 2013.
We expect 2013 EBITDA in our Pigments division to be well below 2012 but improving as the year progresses.
Before sharing some concluding thoughts I'd like to turn a few minutes over to Kimo Esplin our Chief Financial Officer.
Thanks Peter.
Turning to Slide 8 let me add a few comments to Peter's about Pigments' business cycle.
Long term we think about our Pigments division as having approximately a $200 million normalized EBITDA run rate.
This represents an improvement of approximately $200 per metric ton from pre-2008 recession averages.
This improvement is primarily the result of our cost-reduction initiatives and the lower-cost ilmenite feedstock advantage certain of our sulfate plants have relative to traditional chloride ores.
Although 2013 earnings will be lower than this normalized level we're optimistic that the business conditions will improve and our business will exceed the normalized run rate of $200 million EBITDA in 2014.
Earlier Peter talked about the aggressive restructuring underway in certain of our businesses.
Our current restructuring initiatives have targeted annual savings of about $220 million of which $30 million was achieved in 2012.
We expect future benefits of approximately $190 million of which approximately $105 million should be captured in 2013 versus 2012.
We expect to complete these programs by the middle of 2014.
In 2012 we estimate our Polyurethanes division benefited by approximately $90 million as a result of MTBE industry supply outages which we don't expect to repeat in 2013.
In the first quarter of 2013 we are performing a scheduled maintenance on our olefins and ethylene oxide facilities in Port Neches Texas as Peter said.
We expect the EBITDA impact to be approximately $45 million.
In 2013 we expect increased pension expense of approximately $25 million primarily as a result of lower discount rates.
In 2013 we expect our adjusted effective tax rate to be approximately 35% which is higher than our 2012 rate of 30%.
This is primarily due to the effective tax valuation allowances and expected regional mix of income.
Let's go to Slide 9.
In the fourth quarter of 2012 our adjusted EBITDA decreased $10 million to $233 million from $243 million in the prior year.
Our Pigments division earnings decreased $135 million.
Margin compression caused by raw -- higher raw material costs and lower average selling prices in our Pigments and Advanced Materials divisions was partially offset by earnings improved -- improvements in our Polyurethanes Performance Products and Textile Effects divisions.
Consistent with expected seasonality our adjusted EBITDA decreased from $401 million in the third quarter to the $233 million in the fourth.
The decrease was attributable to lower seasonal sales volumes lower prices and higher raw material costs.
Slide 10.
Our year-over-year consolidated sales revenues for the fourth quarter was essentially unchanged.
Sales volumes increased 2% offset by the strength of the U.S.
dollar against major international currencies which had a negative impact on revenues of 2%.
Average selling prices adjusted for the impact of foreign currency were essentially unchanged.
Regionally our sales revenue increased 14% in our Asia Pacific region and 11% in our Rest of World category which includes emerging markets such as Central and South America and the Middle East.
Together these regions comprise 44% of our revenues.
These increases were offset by a 10% and an 8% decrease in our European and North American markets respectively.
Our Polyurethanes businesses is our largest and made up 44% of our total revenue in the fourth quarter.
This revenue increased 13%.
However I'd like to point out that the urethanes market which consists of MDI products increased 14 -- excuse me 16%.
As Peter mentioned earlier sales volumes for our MDI products increased 7% excluding acquisitions and was led by the Americas which grew at double-digit rates.
Consistent with normal seasonality consolidated sales revenue decreased 4% compared to the prior quarter.
A seasonal decrease in sales volumes of 3% accounted for most of the decrease.
A decrease in average selling prices adjusted for the impact of foreign currency of 2% was partially offset by 1% increase attributable to foreign currency.
Let's go to Slide 11.
At the end of the year we had approximately $900 million of cash and unused borrowing capacity.
During the fourth quarter we generated $218 million in cash from operations.
For the full year 2012 we generated $774 million in cash from operations.
Our board has declared a dividend of $0.125 per share payable on March 29 to shareholders of record on March 15.
This represents an increase of $0.025 from the previous quarterly rate.
This is the first change since we began paying a dividend in 2007 and comes after having completed 2 successive EBITDA record earning years.
During the fourth quarter we prepaid $50 million of outstanding term loans.
Reducing our debt remains a priority of our management team and our board.
Our current net debt to 12 months adjusted EBITDA is 2.4x.
Our target is to have sustainable net debt leverage of 2x to 2.5x.
We will continue to pay down our debt.
In the fourth quarter we completed the refinancing of $400 million of our senior notes due 2016 by issuing new 4 7/8% senior notes due 2020.
As a result we booked approximately $77 million loss on the early extinguishment of debt $73 million of which related to the write-off of the unamortized discount on the 2016 notes.
As a result of the refinancing we extended the maturity of this debt by 4 years reduced our annual cash interest by $3 million and reduced our book interest expense by approximately $27 million annually going forward.
We spent $164 million on capital expenditures in the fourth quarter of 2012.
In 2013 we expect to spend approximately $450 million on capital expenditures which approximates our annual depreciation and amortization.
I'll turn the time back to Peter.
Thank you Kimo.
As we conclude a record year of adjusted EBITDA while operating in our current product mix I feel that we are ending the year on a very strong note.
Since our Investor Day nearly 1 year ago we told you that our focus was going to be to improve the quality of our earnings controlling our costs and growing our business.
With respect to our growth in 2013 each of our divisions are projecting sales volume growth rates greater than projected GDP.
Additionally we continue to make progress in the expansion of our Chinese MDI capacity.
This past month we joined our partner Sinopec in a groundbreaking ceremony in Nanjing China to construct a worldscale PO/MTBE facility.
We continue to work towards a DGA morpholine facility in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
These 3 projects alone represent nearly $2 billion of investment of which our capital contribution before licensing income will be approximately $250 million.
When complete these projects will increase our earnings per share further establish our Asian footprint and do so with a minimal risk and investment.
Regarding our focus on cost controls between now and the end of next year we will reduce much of -- we will restructure much of how we do business as we align our operations and functions closer to our customers.
This transformation will eliminate $220 million of costs by the end of next year.
$105 million of these savings will be realized this year.
With respect to the increase in the quality of our earnings we are ending this year in a very strong position.
Our Polyurethanes Performance Products and Textile Effects businesses represent approximately 80% of our revenue.
Their EBITDA improved approximately $150 million in the fourth quarter compared to the prior year.
Looking into 2013 our non-TiO2 divisions are projected to have a record year.
While on TiO2 our Pigments business will start the year around breakeven.
Conditions today lead us to believe that we will see this business improve throughout the year especially in the second half.
We leave 2012 quite satisfied with what we have done.
As we look to 2013 we see continued opportunities to increase shareholder value.
With that I'll turn it back over to Kurt.
Thank you Peter.
Alex that concludes our prepared remarks.
Would you explain the procedure for questions and answers and then open the line for questions? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of P.J.
Juvekar from Citi.
This is Eric Petrie standing in for P.J.
Just wanted to target your comments on lower contribution margin in Pigments for first quarter due to prices.
Last week we saw European TiO2 prices decline by 5%.
Do you expect that weakness to spread to North America and Asia Pacific? Or do you see differences in regional supply and demand? I'm not sure that we see it spreading as much as we see it simultaneously taking place.
And I don't think one region falls and then eventually the other regions will fall with it.
But I think that what you're seeing in Europe you are seeing that taking place in North America and Asia simultaneously.
We think that this erosion in pricing will continue probably through the first quarter.
And I would expect in the second quarter you'll start to see strengthening returning to the markets.
Demand will be picking up and prices will be picking up in the second quarter going into the latter part of that quarter and then the early part of the third quarter.
Okay.
And then my second question was on the free cash flow generation improved year-on-year in 2012.
Do you have any goals in '13 for working capital ratio targets? And then as a follow-up CapEx increased from $80 million to $164 million and could you give us a breakdown or any color onto that? Sure.
I'll take the last bit of your question first.
In terms of CapEx we thought we were going to spend roughly depreciation in 2012 and that's where we came out.
It was a little more back-weighted but they're still pretty close to what we thought we would spend.
So no surprise there.
As it relates to operating cash flow and working capital metrics we do have inventory days that we look to.
We in fact have an incentive compensation scheme for our managers that is working capital-related.
And so we're very focused there.
We would expect in 2013 if our crystal ball is right around raw materials that we will generate cash from working capital in 2013.
Our next question comes from the line of Laurence Alexander.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First of all just eyeballing the gives and takes it looks as if -- do you think your EBITDA can be flat in 2013? Or are you looking for it to be down a little bit by like $100 million or $200 million? So much of it is going to depend on our TiO2 business.
I think that as I said in my comments the non-TiO2 businesses I think there are in total are going to have a record year for us.
And you can look at a scenario where TiO2 is going to be down from the previous year $200-plus million.
You can look at scenarios where it's going to be less than that.
But that really is going to be in my opinion depending on how you view and project your TiO2 numbers.
It's going to be the biggest difference.
But I certainly would say in 2013 that the quality of the earnings meaning from the source of the earnings geographically the source of the earnings technologically and the source of the earnings from all of the divisions across the board with the exception of TiO2 we believe will be strengthening throughout the year and will end the year equal to if not stronger than where they were in 2012.
Laurence if I could just add you've heard us say in our opening comments that we have about $140 million worth of headwind 2012 to '13 when you include the turnaround in Performance Products and the $90 million of MTBE benefits we had in '12 because of outages.
So we said very clearly we think those 2 divisions offset that headwind in 2013 and will be similar to 2012 profitability.
Textile Effects will be up Advanced Materials would be up.
And then we said that in Pigments that normalized EBITDA is $200 million roughly and we will be below that.
So when you think about $200 million or lower relative to what we did in 2012 that is another fairly large market headwind if you're really trying to get to that 2012 level.
My guess is we won't make that 2012 EBITDA level.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Then separately on poly on the MDI business as you look farther out 2014 2015 how comfortable are you that utilization rates continue to improve into the middle of the decade? I think that we feel very confident about that.
I mean we have a pretty good view as to who's bringing capacity into the market.
And as we look out over the next 24 months here there's roughly about 100 -- well there's about 300 000 metric tons of capacity new capacity that will be coming into the market over the next 2 years.
Now if the market is expanding at the rate that it expanded this past year which is about 7% and that's an expansion on 5.7 million tons of capacity the industry will need about 400 000 tons of capacity per year of new capacity just to stay even with where we are today.
So I would say that over the next 24 months obviously that we need about 800 000 tons of new capacity coming into the industry to stay flat with where we are today.
And what our numbers are showing us is that we believe that the addition of new tonnage in the industry is going to be closer to about 300 000 tons.
Now depending if somebody -- there might be some small gives and takes in those numbers.
But we believe over the course of the next 2 years or so that you're going to have certainly a tighter market 2 years from now than you see today.
I believe that the industry is operating in the very high 80% utilization rate.
So that's a tough one to get your hands around because it's tighter in some areas around the world than in other areas.
But by and large I would -- I feel very confident that over the course of 2013 and moving to 2014 and even into 2015 that you're going to see utilization rates tighter than they are today barring a major global economic upsale shock [ph] that we can't control.
I just want to say one thing on your previous question that as we look at 2013 I've mentioned in my comments and Kimo has too about the quality of our earnings.
And I think that where we need to be focused on is in the improvement of the quality of these earnings.
We believe that that gets us to a more traditional multiple of our EBITDA that's substantially higher than where we are today.
And I think that as we look out over the course of the past year or so in the last 2 years I think that the people have looked at this company more as a TiO2 company with some urethanes and other by-products.
And I certainly don't want to say anything that would diminish the performance of TiO2.
But I think that as we look at the core of our earnings and I said earlier 80% of our sales Polyurethanes and Performance Products making up nearly 80% of our sales and you add onto that Textile Effects that's where you're seeing the real growth of our earnings today taking place.
And if you put anything that resembles a reasonable multiple on those sort of cash flows you'd see obviously a higher value a higher stock value and a higher total enterprise value coming throughout 2013 and 2014 for this company.
Our next question comes from the line of Frank Mitsch from Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Peter when you were talking about the Polyurethanes business I'm trying to look at the puts and takes in the various -- the 2 major drivers the polyurethanes -- I'm sorry the urethanes versus the PO/MTBE.
It looks like you got that $90 million headwind but you've got about $40 million of incremental savings.
So you're expecting that business to grow about 7% EBITDA x that restructuring growth.
How would you partial that out between the 2 major segments? I just wanted to get a little more information on that.
Well I would say that about 2/3 of our -- if you look in the past year about 2/3 of our improvements when you strip out the onetime benefits of outages about 2/3 of the improvements that we experienced this last year came from MDI over PO/MTBE.
And I think that going forward as we look at the improvement in that business we would say that this next year probably about half of that improvement will come through cost reduction half of that improvement will come through an improvement in our MDI and our margins and moving further into our systems and moving further downstream.
Of that $50 million $40 million of cost reductions $45 million or so of improvements in the MDI.
Frank you've heard us describe this business as half of it is utilization rate-sensitive and half of it is more system-based and more stable margins and we're starting to see that more utilization rate-sensitive side of it really expand in terms of margins.
And we think this is a business that can do $1 billion of EBITDA in the future.
And that's not going to be driven by PO/MTBE that is MDI-based sort of uplift.
LLC Research Division</strong> So we should continue to see an improvement in MDI operating rates in 2013? Absolutely.
I look at where we were in 2005 -- 2004 '05 and '06 in that time period we're still quite some distance away in MDI of reaching what I would say would be a peak sort of level of margin performance.
So I'm happy with where we are in MDI but we've still got a ways to go.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right great.
And then lastly Peter I think when you were talking about Advanced Materials you said that you anticipate '13 to be better by -- than '12.
But I think that you attribute it all to the restructuring benefits that you anticipate realizing.
What are the difficulties that you're seeing in your end markets there? I mean obviously wind energy is an issue.
But can you spend a moment or 2 talking about the pluses and minuses by the various parts of AM? I think that as we look at the business we kind of look at it over a multi-year period.
We continue to be very satisfied with the growth of our aerospace business.
The electronics business is growing for us robustly around the world.
A lot of the coatings flooring businesses some of the more niche and specialty adhesives business applications continue to grow and do quite well.
But we have a large volume driver of what I would call very commoditized BLR basic liquid resins and that business is at historical lows.
And you probably have heard some of the CEOs of some of the other companies that have made comments that are in that same business talking about some of their plant closures and so forth that are taking place.
And I personally believe if we look at BLR I'm not projecting this next year that thing turns around and goes through the roof.
But I think that there's a sense in the industry that there are so many people that are hurting in BLR that capacities will be rationalized throughout the year.
That's already been publicly announced by some of our competitors.
We're evaluating some of our own capacity as part of that exercise.
And so I would think in the BLR side that you probably have seen the bottoming of that taking place and you'll see a gradual recovery.
But if we look to this business our growth rate over the course of 2013 2014 and '15 is really going to be largely based on those applications that continue to do well for us.
As I look at our January order patterns and so forth they continue to do well for us today in aerospace electronics coatings and so forth.
And this is going to be the engine of our growth going forward.
Our next question comes from the line of Kevin McCarthy from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Kimo in putting forth your TiO2 pigment earnings guidance for 2013 what are you baking in with regard to cost of titanium-bearing ores? And perhaps you could just comment a little bit on what you're seeing out in the marketplace as it relates to your rutile ilmenite and slag? Sure sure.
Ilmenite really hasn't changed.
It was 18 months ago maybe $200 a ton and now it's $300 a ton.
And it really didn't move up that high and it doesn't look like it's come down much.
As it relates to the slags chloride slag hasn't moved much at all either.
It's about $1 500 a ton.
Now sulfate slags are lower than chloride slags by $200 a ton roughly.
And rutile is the one that really has come down quite a bit.
You remember it was $2 200 $2 300 a ton a year ago.
And right now you're seeing it at parity with the chloride slags on a contained-titanium basis.
So if you sort of do your numbers on a contained-titanium basis you've got roughly $600 a ton for ilmenite call it $1 600 a ton for rutiles and slags you're really $1 000 a ton different in contained titanium between the 2 ores.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then second question if I may on taxes.
I think in your press release Kimo you indicated an increase to 35% for 2013 and you talked a little bit about geographic mix and also valuation allowances.
Can you explain what is going on with the valuation allowances and also comment on whether or not your cash tax rate might change in '13 versus '12? Sure.
It's really all about TiO2 and European countries.
So we have NOLs in places like the U.K.
France and Spain.
We have several manufacturing facilities from our different divisions in those countries.
But for the most part they're driven by TiO2 profitability.
In a year -- well in a quarter like the fourth quarter when we generated $10 million of EBITDA you can expect that those countries saw pretax losses.
Unfortunately when you have pretax losses in valuation allowance countries you can't book a benefit for that loss.
It has the effect of pushing your effective tax rate up.
And so in 2013 when we're projecting it to be a tough TiO2 year you would expect that our effective tax rate will be higher because we will have losses in certain European countries because of TiO2 which will push that rate to the higher end of our range.
Research Division</strong> And then if I look out to '14 you signaled TiO2 goes back above your normalized levels.
And presumably that's the reason your tax rate starts to drift back down from the 35% level is that correct? Exactly.
You start making money in the U.K.
you start making money in places like Switzerland because of Textile Effects.
And you'll see that effective tax rate drop to well something like we did in 2012 kind of a 29% rate.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Koort from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Got a couple of I guess unrelated questions.
First on the MTBE side I think you said you had an increment of $90 million of sort of extra earnings this year.
Could you give us a sense within that $800 million polyurethane EBITDA for the year how much in total MTBE would have been? It is a tough calculation because you got big plants and that fixed cost relates to of course both PO and MTBE.
So you're making up numbers at that point truly.
I mean I suppose you could try to look at MTBE profitability on a on-purpose basis.
But we don't run in on-purpose plant and we'd be guessing at some of those assumptions as well.
Research Division</strong> So the guess for $90 million of incremental earnings was just based on what? Outages and we saw MTBE prices rise above what we would have expected otherwise because MTBE markets were tight.
So that's purely a price view in terms of what we thought we got from these outages.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then when I look at your $5 billion Polyurethane business in trying to figure out what kind of leverage you would have in the U.S.
housing can you tell me what share of that revenue base would be into the U.S.
housing markets? Well we said that 25% of our U.S.
Polyurethanes business is composite woods but that's clearly U.S.
housing.
Before we go to insulation let's just sort of try to think about what percentage of our overall business is North America and it's roughly about 1/3.
Yes.
When you think about our business it's probably 1/3 Europe 1/3 U.S.
and 1/3 sort of Asia and Rest of the World.
And so that gives you the composite wood.
Now there are some insulation that goes into housing in the U.S.
But for the most part it's commercial application and panels and so forth.
But there are some polyurethane that goes to that to homes.
Research Division</strong> So maybe somewhere north of 10% of the Polyurethane division seem reasonable? That's a good number.
It's probably a little higher than that actually.
Yes it's probably a little higher than that Bob.
I would think also as you think about some of the fastest-growing markets that we see in Europe and in Asia it's also around OSB in those markets as well.
So I mean I know you're focused on U.S.
housing but we're also -- one of the areas that we're seeing a growth taking place in a lethargic economy like Europe is in OSB applications in Europe.
That's one of the growth industries we see growth year-over-year.
And in Asia we're seeing the same thing as people are moving more and more towards similar sort of building materials as we see in North America.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And my last one in Performance Products you guys talked about a $45 million hit in the first quarter which seems like a pretty large hit if I think about sort of lost production volumes and ethylene cracker spreads and that sort of thing.
So can you give me a sense of what you're getting for that $45 million? Well the $45 million we're having to do a maintenance turnaround that we'd have to do whether that number was $100 million or nothing.
Every 4 years we have to take the facility down and completely overhaul it and replace a lot of the equipment and so forth.
So it's really not -- it's more of a license to continue to operate the facility if you will more than any incremental expansion or business investment cases taking place.
Not to throw -- Bob not to throw fuel on the fire but it's in fact the investment is a lot more than the $45 million right? I mean the cash cost of this turnaround is roughly $70 million and we take that and we amortize that over the next 4 years.
On top of that is lost sales or having to purchase outside raw materials that otherwise we would have manufactured.
That's the $45 million that we're speaking to.
So put those together...
Research Division</strong> I got it.
So are you squeezing out a little extra production from that cracker? It'll have a higher rate of operations slightly higher rate and the reliability will be better.
Typically when you enter the end of your 4-year cycle your catalysts and so forth start to deteriorate.
So I would hope that we'd have stronger production rates.
These aren't -- I don't think this is going to be material to our earnings.
Also Bob I would just note that when we talked about that $45 million that's our best estimate that we have right now.
We won't know that number until really we're completely done and we've been able to go back and look at the price of raw materials during that time period and the price of ethylene and the price of product for resale that we had during that time period.
So unlike the turnaround itself where we know that we're going to be spending $70-some-odd million in parts and labor and so forth the actual EBITDA hit it may come in a few million dollars less than that.
But I think that from what we're seeing thus far the $45 million I think is a very safe number as far as the lost EBITDA that we've incurred by having the plant down for maintenance.
I'll make sure that we emphasize this because some people when they look at our -- when they project our first quarter for some reason they forget that number.
And so a $45 million hit in our Performance Products and what we're telling investors again is in 2013 we believe that the business the Performance Products business will improve its EBITDA enough in 2013 to be able to make up for that $45 million EBITDA hit to be able to make up for that and which just tell you that that's a bottom line growth in the business of greater than 10% that we'll see throughout the year.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Ritzenthaler from Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> In your outlook for 2013 in Polyurethanes do you have a good sense for the Yantai JV facility in PO/MTBE? You did a good job of articulating the Sinopec agreement for next year but I was wondering if you could give us a little more context around the first such agreement that you guys entered into with Yantai.
Yes you're talking about the Yantai propylene oxide MTBE joint venture? Research Division</strong> Yes exactly.
Okay yes.
We're just licensing that technology to them and we'll be receiving a licensing income from that but we will not be deriving any value from the sales and so forth of that project.
So that really shouldn't be something that we're factoring into our MDI business strategy going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I just wanted to touch briefly on Textile Effects if I could.
In the year-over-year increase in volumes I mean you highlighted in your prepared comments that you were taking share.
Is there something specific that's going on there that's enabling you to do that? And how much runway is left in that incremental capture? Well I think as that incremental capture just -- firstly in my opinion is just starting.
I think when you look at most of our major competitors in that business either they are in the process of selling their business or trying to sell their business or making substantial reductions in their R&amp;D and so forth.
We are in the midst right now of a cost reduction.
But much of that cost reduction is actually strengthening the business.
We're shutting down production and our costs in Switzerland and we're moving into Asia.
The same week that we have the groundbreaking in Nanjing China for the PO/MTBE joint venture with Sinopec we also have the ribbon-cutting for production in Mahachai Thailand of a lot of our production that has taken place in Switzerland has now been qualified is now up and running we have product out of that Thai facility that will be servicing customers.
So as we look at the Textile Effects business going forward I think that we have an opportunity to continue to grow that business at strong single digit sort of sales rates assuming that the industry itself grows only at 1% or 2%.
I think that we are investing more on new products.
We're investing certainly more in new production than our competition is.
And I think that the customers and the ultimate consumers are really rewarding us for that.
Our next question comes from Gregg Goodnight from UBS.
Research Division</strong> One question I had Peter you're laying out a pretty good argument in terms of industry growth and the lack of capacity after 2014 '15 that the industry is going to require some more capacity.
Could you update us on what your thinking is on your potential North American MDI expansion and when might you get to some sort of decision point? Well I think that we are presently evaluating debottlenecking projects.
Our next phase is then to evaluate putting in a new line.
And then you'd look at actually adding something that would be similar to a new facility.
And I think like most chemical investments in North America right now we feel pretty good about the market conditions today but there's just still a great deal of uncertainty.
And unless you're building a large commodity facility around cheap gas play on gas frac-ing I think that we're taking a longer term.
We're optimistic about where MDI is going about where the demand is going.
But there just seems to be a sense of uncertainty in the overall economy of North America.
And so I think that we're looking now at projects that will further incrementally expand and further downstream derivatize our MDI business.
Again one of the areas of MDI growth for us as a company I believe is not necessarily adding more tonnage to the industry but it's taking our existing tonnage and moving that further downstream through systems through variance and adding that with other Huntsman chemistry to create value with that.
So in North America Polyurethanes MDI we're going to be focused on where we can get the cheap pounds added cheap pounds and also where and how we're best going to be able to add value to the existing tonnage that we already have.
Research Division</strong> And a decision point on say an incremental expansion when would that be? I think that if we decide to do something that you're probably looking in the next 6 months or so.
I also would just like to correct something I said earlier that 40% of our $76 million cost savings in MDI would fall to the bottom line this year.
I should have said $40 million.
So $40 million we view in the MDI business we have a cost improvement process that is going on right now of $75 million.
$40 million of that is going to be hitting the bottom line in 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Second question for Kimo in terms of your 2013 CapEx target can you mention any big bucket projects that are included in that CapEx and how much is just purely maintenance? Yes every year it kind of moves around in terms of maintenance Gregg.
I kind of think about maintenance meaning sort of mandatory environmental health and safety sort of -- that sort of thing.
It's kind of $125 million.
In a turnaround year like this year it'd probably be $150 million.
So there's a lot of discretionary capital as you mentioned.
Some of the projects that we're focused on in titanium dioxide are providing greater or flexibility around ilmenite around some of our current sulfate slide plants.
We have a large project in Calais France in TiO2 related to magnesium sulfate fertilizer that will deal with some of the by-product that comes off that plant.
We also have expansions in as Peter said in some of our variance or more specialty MDI businesses in Europe.
It's a large project.
We have expansions in our amines businesses.
And then in Advanced Materials we've announced publicly a large expansion in our McIntosh facility here in the U.S.
for aerospace.
So there are several projects not any one big throw but we have several of them.
Another project is expanding our ethylene oxide facility in North America that will capture some of the North American advantage that exists here.
Our next question comes from the line of Hassan Ahmed from Alembic Global Advisors.
Listen first question if I may on the TiO2 side.
I know everyone has been talking about it a fair bit.
I just wanted to get a better sense of -- or your views of just the shape and base of this evolving next cycle? And the way I'm thinking about it as I look at current quarter's EBITDA margins 3.5% very comparable to the distressed period of Q2 Q3 '09.
And then thereafter going back to '09 we saw this snap up in terms of margins 17.5% EBITDA margins in 2010 30% EBITDA margins in 2011 at Huntsman.
We're really not seeing much of a supplier response right now and you guys clearly have a bit of a feedstock advantage as well.
So is there a case to be made that we see a similar snap up? Sure.
There's a case to be made.
I think that as we looked at 2013 I think that as you look at the Q3 and Q4 performance of 2012 you definitely see destocking that is taking place.
You see customers that are burning through their inventories and the worst place that we saw that happen was in Asia.
And quite specifically I tried to highlight in my call that as we look at the turnaround we believe that for the turnaround really to come in to this industry you've got to start seeing Asia seeing some year-over-year growth.
And for the last couple of quarters we have seen that.
And in the fourth quarter we actually did see a year-over-year growth in TiO2.
Now as we look at 2013 I would say that 2011 was definitely a year of almost panic buying on the sense of the customers.
I think that 2012 was a year of massive destocking from the customers the world didn't come to an end.
I think 2013 as we look at the volumes I think 2013 is going to be more of a normalized year.
It's going to start the year very poorly obviously as we've already said.
But I think that throughout the year and by the end of the year I think that you're going to be going into more normal operating conditions.
Now could it swing up from there? I think that it certainly could.
I'm not going to sit here and say that we're going to see margins go from 0% to 30% in the next couple of quarters.
I think it has a much likely higher probability just again my opinion has a higher probability of doing that than it does of staying at fourth quarter sort of run rate margins throughout the year.
But I think that again my view is kind of more between the 2.
I think that by the end of 2013 you're operating this business more in normalized market conditions.
And we define for Huntsman at least normalized this business ought to be doing around $200 million EBITDA sort of condition.
Very good.
And a follow-up if I may.
On the polyurethane side of things obviously right now in this market there should be a huge differential between the PO/MTBE production versus the PO/SM production.
So just your views on the sort of where those 2 stack up on the cost curve as it stands today.
I'm trying to expunge all of the styrenic memories from my mind to be honest.
Fair enough.
But there clearly is capacity out there.
I've got to be honest with you I have no idea what PO/SM economics are.
I would say that from what limited knowledge I have in that area I think that PO/MTBE is absolutely the right way to go particularly if you have a strong MDI business that can take that PO and create value with it.
But I mean just a sense of scale or whatever.
I mean do think that PO/SM would be breakeven-ish right now on the cost curve? I'm not trying to evade an answer.
I'd share with you.
I just have no idea.
And internally that's not even a number that we track as far as propylene oxide styrene monomer.
Hassan let me jump into your first question and just add just a little bit of color on TiO2 trends regionally that I think is interesting maybe a point that we haven't made and that is in the fourth quarter we saw something interesting in Asia as Peter pointed out.
We've shown slides before in our conferences where we show kind of a 5- to 7-year band of demand and where we sit today in that 5-year 7-year demand.
And Asia actually in the fourth quarter moved to the top of that band.
So clearly not only through the inventory correction but really on the high side of demand.
At the same time we saw Chinese exports to Europe primarily fall dramatically which leads me to believe that Asia is consuming much of their own production in TiO2 which really allows Europe primarily to see pricing stabilize and actually strengthen.
I think that's an important dynamic.
Next question comes from the line of Andy Cash from SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just want to turn in now to titanium dioxide in Europe I was just curious with that TiO2 business in Europe up for sale do you think that had an impact on the TiO2 market? And do you think there's any -- what are the odds of a transaction happening in 2013? Yes I don't think that it's -- we don't really compete with much with that facility and I wouldn't say that -- I wouldn't categorize them as a stabilizing force or a reckless force.
We just -- to be honest with you we don't really come across that particular facility very much.
And as far as what they might do I just -- I have no idea.
I mean it looks like they've been fairly aggressive last year so trying to get rid of it.
And I don't know if the markets are really improving that much for that [indiscernible].
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I mean if it goes in the hands of a newcomer to the business maybe that could be disruptive for a longer period of time until they kind of learn the ropes.
Do you think there's any risk of that happening? If it does happen again we really don't compete against that certain -- the output of that facility goes into kind of a specialty niche area.
And we have a little bit of overlap there but not a great deal.
And if somebody got in there and kind of had the learning curve or whatever where they messed up those end user -- or end markets I just don't see it affecting our pricing and margins because we just compete in different areas.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very insightful.
Just one other thing.
So most of this disruption in the TiO2 is clearly just an inventory disruption.
Do you have any evidence -- is there any demand changes in TiO2 made from chlorine chloride versus TiO2 made from sulfate? Or is it just too disruptive right now to kind of figure that out? Well I don't think that it's -- I think again as I said in previous calls I think one of the big misconceptions of this industry is somehow that this chloride product gets a premium it's in higher demand that that's the new product that's coming into the market.
If you look at when was the last chloride facility built that really added into the market -- years and years ago you look at all new capacity that's coming into the market that's displacing chloride it's sulfate material.
We sell both into the market.
There's absolutely no difference in demand trends or pricing trends and I think it's going to continue to remain that way.
We have no further questions left in the queue.
This Kurt.
We want to thank everyone for joining us on the call today.
I want to remind everyone that a replay of the conference call will be available later on this afternoon and feel free to reach out to us if you have additional questions.
Thank you for joining us.
Thank you for joining today's conference.
This concludes your presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
A very good day to you ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Quarter 1 2013 Huntsman Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Moncy and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to hand the call over to Kurt Ogden Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Moncy and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Huntsman's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
Joining us on the call today are Jon Huntsman our Founder and Executive Chairman; Peter Huntsman President and CEO; and Kimo Esplin Executive Vice President and CFO.
This morning before the market opened we released our earnings for the first quarter 2013 via press release and posted it on our website huntsman.com.
We also posted a set of slides on our website which we intend to use on the call this morning in the discussion of our results.
During this call we may make statements about our projections or expectations for the future.
All such statements are forward-looking statements.
And while they reflect our current expectations they involve risks and uncertainties and are not guarantees of future performance.
You should review our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for more information regarding the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these projections or expectations.
We do not plan on publicly updating or revising any forward-looking statements during the quarter.
In addition we also refer to non-GAAP financial measures such as EBITDA adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income or loss.
You can find the reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in our earnings release which has been posted on our website at huntsman.com.
Beginning in 2013 we began to exclude the amortization of actuarial gains and losses associated with pension and postretirement benefits from our adjusted earnings measures.
This amortization comes from changes in actuarial assumptions and the difference between actual and expected returns on plan assets and not from our normal operations.
This reflects the adjusted EBITDA that would be reported if we adopted a mark-to-market pension accounting method.
We believe removing these gains and losses provides management and investors greater transparency into the operational results of our businesses and enhances period-over-period comparability.
Amounts for prior periods have been recast to reflect this change.
A historical schedule of adjusted EBITDA can be found in our earnings release published this morning.
Let's turn to some highlights on Slide #2.
In our earnings release this morning we reported first quarter 2013 revenue of $2.702 billion; adjusted EBITDA of $220 million; and adjusted earnings per share of $0.19 per diluted share.
I will now turn call over to Peter Huntsman our President and CEO.
Thank you Kurt.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for taking the time to join us.
Let's turn to Slide #3.
Adjusted EBITDA for our Polyurethanes division in the first quarter of 2013 was $178 million.
We saw a meaningful earnings improvement in our MDI Urethanes business compared to the prior year.
This was offset by lower PO/MTBE earnings which benefited the first quarter of 2012 by approximately $60 million from industry supply outages.
In the first quarter of 2013 we successfully raised our MDI selling prices and we're able to offset the increase in raw material costs.
The cost of our largest raw material benzene increased in the first quarter by approximately 20% compared to the prior year.
We saw strong growth and demand for our MDI urethanes in the Asia Pacific and North American regions.
Our largest markets in the Asia Pacific region are insulation adhesives coatings and elastomers and automotive.
We saw a double-digit growth in these markets primarily as a result of more demanding energy codes for building construction favoring MDI and strong Chinese automotive demand.
In the Americas we're seeing signs of a continued recovery in housing and construction.
Our largest market composite wood products grew at double-digit rates.
In the European region we saw soft demand in Northern Europe for the first time since the European financial crisis.
Some of this is seasonal due to the prolonged cold winter negatively impacting our largest market construction insulation.
We also felt the impact of lower European automotive demand.
We booked blend propylene oxide-based polyols with MDI to create specific polyurethanes system solutions for our customers.
In the U.S.
we manufacture our own propylene oxide.
MTBE is the byproduct of our manufacturing process.
Lower-priced butane in 2013 partially offset the decrease in average selling prices that resulted from industry supply outages last year.
This past week we were forced to declare force majeure in Europe on the supply of certain grades of pure and variant MDI products.
The situation was caused by a lack of critical raw material supply and offtake from our MDI facility in Rotterdam the Netherlands.
We estimate the EBITDA impact on the second quarter 2013 to be approximately $15 million.
As of this morning our operations appear to be in better shape than last week.
Barring any supply chain disruption we hope to return to normal operations in the next 2 to 3 weeks.
Turning to Slide #4.
In the first quarter our Performance Product division earned $54 million of adjusted EBITDA.
During the first quarter of 2013 we successfully completed planned maintenance on our olefins and ethylene oxide facilities in Port Neches Texas.
This maintenance occurs once every 4 years.
The total estimated impact on the quarter was approximately $55 million.
We saw strong demand for amines in the first quarter of this year.
We successfully implemented recent price increases for amines and are encouraged by the trends for these product.
We also saw a strong improvement in contribution margins for our maleic anhydride businesses which benefited from the lower cost of butane and improved sales mix.
Turning to Slide #5.
Adjusted EBITDA in the first quarter in our Advanced Materials division was $27 million.
Globally we continue to see weak demand in our base epoxy resins businesses which represent 20% of the division's revenues.
In addition soft underlying demand has extended across most of our product categories in the European region.
However we are seeing some bright spots within this business.
Notably demand in the Americas and Europe for our multifunctional resins used in the aerospace industry continues to grow nicely and show strength.
Also in our Asia Pacific region we are seeing attractive growth for electrical engineering products and industrial adhesives used by manufacturers of tankers and ships.
In January of this year we announced a program designed to improve efficiencies and increase our global competitiveness in this division.
We expect the program to be completed by the middle of 2014 with future annual benefits of approximately $70 million.
We're on track of delivering these savings.
Let's turn to Slide #6.
Our Textile Effects division reported an adjusted EBITDA loss of $3 million in the first quarter.
This is an improvement of $5 million compared to the prior year.
An intense focus on key markets has contributed or has continued to generate year-over-year growth through share gains despite muted market conditions.
In the first quarter volumes in key markets grew 12% compared to the prior year with our Asia business growing at 14%.
Production output at one of our facilities was significantly lower than the early part of the first quarter of this year as a result of an upgrade operational systems migration.
In addition production output at 2 other facilities was impacted by key raw material shortages for several weeks.
Both of these situations have been successfully resolved.
We estimate the EBITDA impact to be approximately $3 million for the quarter.
Our restructuring efforts are proceeding slightly ahead of plan.
The benefits of the restructuring are evident in our fixed cost which decreased $13 million compared to the prior year.
Most of the expected $75 million in annual restructuring benefits are yet to come.
Let's turn to Slide #7.
Our Pigments division earned $9 million of adjusted EBITDA for the first quarter.
We are seeing signs of demand recovery from the low point experienced in the previous quarter.
Our sales volumes were flat compared to the prior year and improved 27% compared to the fourth quarter.
We believe global demand trends for the industry have improved as well.
During the quarter we further scaled back our production.
At the end of the quarter we had approximately 45 days of inventory.
We believe the industry has closer to 75 days.
This is quite an improvement from the end of the year when our inventory was approximately 75 days and the industry was at approximately 100 days.
The impact of running our plants at lower production rates negatively impacted our EBITDA by approximately $12 million in the quarter.
Our average selling price decreased 11% in local currency terms compared to the prior quarter.
However we are starting to see pricing stability as a result of lower pigment inventories and our announced price increases.
We are encouraged by global demand trends for TiO2 and expect margins to improve in the second half of the year.
We believe 2014 is setting up to be at or above our EBITDA normalized run rate of approximately $200 million.
Before sharing some concluding thoughts I'd like to turn a few minutes over to Kimo Esplin our Chief Financial Officer.
Thanks Peter.
Let's go to Slide 8.
In the first quarter 2013 our adjusted EBITDA decreased $187 million to $220 million from $407 million in the prior year.
$141 million of this change was attributable to our Pigments division which is going through an industry-wide business cycle.
In the first quarter of 2013 our Performance Products business completed some planned maintenance the impact of which was approximately $55 million.
In the first quarter of 2012 our PO/MTBE business benefited by approximately $60 million from the industry supply outages.
Compared to the prior quarter we saw an increase in volumes most of which was attributable to an improvement in our sales mix.
An increase in average selling prices was offset by an increase in raw materials.
Of course the $55 million impact of our maintenance and performance products more than offset improvements in sales volumes.
Turning to Slide 9.
Our year-over-year consolidated sales revenue for the first quarter decreased 7% sales volumes declined 9% but were significantly impacted by the planned maintenance in our Performance Products division.
Excluding our Performance Products division the sales volume decline would have been 6%.
Regionally our sales revenue increased 7% in our Asia Pacific region.
Sales revenues decreased on other regions of the world but our North American region was impacted by the maintenance in performance products.
Our Polyurethanes business is our largest and made up 43% of our total revenue in the first quarter.
This revenue decreased 3%.
However the comparison is skewed by the higher selling prices we enjoyed in the prior year as a result of industry supply outages in PO/MTBE.
Revenues for our MDI urethanes improved 6%.
Compared to the prior quarter sales revenues increased 3% primarily as a result of higher average selling prices in response to higher raw material costs.
In addition we saw modest improvement in our sales mix.
We saw growth in the North American and European regions primarily as a result of improved average selling prices.
Sales revenues improved in our Pigments business as a result of a 27% increase in sales volume whereas an improvement in MDI urethanes was primarily the result of higher average selling prices.
Slide 10.
At the end of the quarter we had approximately $832 million of cash and unused borrowing capacity.
Our board declared a dividend of $0.125 per share payable on March 29 to shareholders of record on March 15.
This represents an increase of $0.025 per share from the previous rate.
This is the first change since we began paying a dividend in 2007 and it comes after having completed 2 successive record earnings years.
During the first quarter we extended the maturity of our debt at attractive interest rates.
Yesterday we completed an amendment to our accounts receivable securitization program that extends the maturity reduces the borrowing rate and increases the availability under these low-cost programs.
Reducing our debt remains a priority of our management team and our board.
Some of the debt that we have refinanced was originally booked at a discount to face amount because it was issued to us at below-market rates.
As a result as we have refinanced this debt we recognize the difference between recorded and face value of the notes.
In the last 2 quarters we have recognized an increase in the recorded value of our debt of approximately $100 million.
Our current net debt to the last 12 months adjusted EBITDA is 2.8x.
Our target is to have a sustainable net debt leverage ratio of 2x to 2.5x.
We spent $89 million on capital expenditures in the first quarter.
In 2013 we expect to spend approximately $450 million on capital expenditures which approximates our annual depreciation and amortization.
I'll now turn it back to Peter.
Thank you Kimo.
We started off the first quarter of 2013 with strong earnings from our core Polyurethanes division and continued margin expansion from our amines and Performance Products divisions.
In fact if we pro forma the $55 million loss attributed to our planned maintenance shutdown we would have had one of the strongest first quarters in our Performance Products division we've ever experienced.
Throughout the year we will see the impact of our cost to restructuring projects in our Textile Effects and Advanced Materials divisions.
Despite poor industry conditions we continue to fully expect these divisions to improve over their previous years' performance.
Additionally we expect the MDI side of our Polyurethanes division to continue to show strong earnings growth over the previous year.
While our Performance Products group was delayed in our restart from our recent maintenance work improving market conditions give me reason to believe that we should more than make up the $55 million of cost in the first quarter and finish the year equal to or even slightly ahead of last year.
There have been a number of stories speculating about what we may be doing with our Pigments division.
We've stated in the past that we want to be part of any consolidations in this industry that create long-term value.
Huntsman continues to explore various options that may be a benefit to our overall business.
I am encouraged by the improving market fundamentals of demand and lowering inventories that we see in our TiO2 business.
For obvious reasons we will not be commenting on speculative questions regarding our Pigments business.
In closing last quarter we made some forecasts that with the exception of our Pigments division all of our other divisions will be doing equal to or better than 2012 in spite of a sluggish global economy.
I continue to support this forecast.
Regarding TiO2 we continue to see signs of improvement with better demand and lower inventories.
I believe that we will see a real turn around by year end and throughout 2014.
With that I'll turn the call back over to Kurt.
Thank you Peter.
Moncy that concludes our prepared remarks.
Would you explain the procedure for questions and answers and then open then line for questions? [Operator Instructions] We have our first question in the queue from the line of Peter James Juvekar from Citi.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about your operating cash flow which was down from last year? And I know TiO2 earnings are down but what else is impacting cash flow? I didn't know P.J.
was for Peter James P.J.
That's nice to know.
Well we have some working capital headwind.
And that is we've improved our inventory days but we need to still bring our inventory down on a relative basis Peter I think -- or P.J.
We'll be at a peak in the first quarter and it will come down the rest of the year in terms of days.
But we saw some increased revenues in the first quarter and that built our receivables.
The other bits of operating cash flow were a big turnaround spend.
We had roughly $58 million worth of cost on the turnaround plus the $55 million of lost revenues and -- or lost EBITDA.
So really when you think about the cost of that turnaround in the first quarter it was closer to $110 million.
So really I guess the unique thing in the first quarter in terms of operating cash flow was that number in the turnaround.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you update us on your ore contracts? And what sort of ore inventory do you have on hand? And did you stockpile any ore before year end? And just related to that I think last year you were trying to convert one of your facilities to utilize more ilmenite ore so if you'd just give us an update on that.
I think that most of our ore prices that we're seeing right now of course the majority of ore that we're buying is ilmenite and that price has stayed pretty stable.
We did pre-buy last year some ores that were the rutile grades and some of the slag grades but we haven't been stockpiling that since -- those products since the first of the year.
So P.J.
the big contracts that we have in slag while there's -- I think there's one contract that expires at the end of 2013 that the big contract expired at the end of 2012.
And we think those slag raw materials or inventory will last us through into the third quarter of 2013.
And that should benefit us in 2013 again through roughly the first 3 quarters by about $60 million.
Research Division</strong> And anything on your conversion of your Italian client to flex down into more ilmenite? Yes that is a sulfate slag plant and we are increasing its flexibility so that it can consume up to 60% ilmenite.
And that should be well on its way by the first part of 2014 in terms of its ability to use those grades.
We have the next question from the line of Kevin McCarthy from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on TiO2.
I think you had commented that you'd be looking at EBITDA at or above $200 million in 2014.
Is that correct first of all; and second of all would you need additional selling price increases in order to achieve that level of profitability? Yes we would need additional selling prices to achieve that level of profitability.
And we believe that in -- that we will see price increases that will start taking firmer traction throughout the second half of the year.
And we believe that in 2014 that we should be running at an annualized run rate of $200 million thereabouts which we consider to be a normalized run rate.
Now we will have to see some price increases take place in order to achieve that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then second question I guess on a different topic.
You referenced the force majeure at Rotterdam.
I saw I guess it was late last week one of your competitors had declared force majeure on rail shipments of PO and they cited a strike action on the rail freight providers.
Is that the issue in your case? And if so has that strike been resolved? I'm unfamiliar with the strike.
Our issue is that the port of Rotterdam -- because all of these major facilities there are so interconnected usually every a couple of years there will be a massive turnaround project where you'll have multiple facilities.
These aren't just Huntsman facilities but also owned by other chemical company's as well.
Where utilities will shut down the power plants will shut down ethylene manufacturing our basic raw materials will shut down and so forth.
So we can't come up fully until of our raw material suppliers are up and running.
Most all of them are now up and running.
Our facility is capable of returning to flow rates as soon as we're able to receive the -- our full slate of raw material products.
We believe that that is in the process of correcting itself as we speak.
And that will be resolved here in the coming week or 2.
Research Division</strong> Last question if I may.
In Polyurethanes segment you indicated a year-over-year volume decline of 8%.
Would you provide some color on how that might have broken out between MDI and MTBE? MTBE dropped quite a bit in its volume during that time frame.
And that was roughly because of a timing of shipments from a year previous.
And so as we look across the board in polyurethanes we saw our PO/MTBE drop year-over-year by about 13%.
Again that was -- our manufacture -- our production rates were about equal during those 2 time periods but it was a timing issue on shipments of last year.
We had some fourth quarter shipments last year that went into first quarter last year which made last year look particularly strong on shipments.
So I think that that's -- that drop in demand is mostly around the area of MTBE.
Around polyurethanes we saw basically the markets were flat.
In overall demand we saw Asia was up Europe -- or U.S.
was up and Europe was down.
Just to add to that by that way again in terms of urethanes revenues were up 6% year-over-year if you just take PO/MTBE fees.
And my comments were around volume.
We have the next question from the line of Ivan Marcuse from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Real quick how much cost savings were in total hit the first quarter on a year-over-year basis or is the benefit? Well of the roughly $200 million of cost reduction initiatives that we have we had roughly $25 million of benefit in the quarter from off of that $200 million initiative.
Research Division</strong> Great.
So roughly $13 million was in the textile space and then the rest spread out to the other segments? Yes.
Yes I mean in the other segments I think that was pretty well evenly split between polyurethanes and Advanced Materials.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then how much were -- was the earnings change in the PO/MTBE business on a year-over-year basis? I'm sorry what's the question again? Research Division</strong> How much did PO -- or how much did the MTBE business contribute to EBITDA in the quarter or what was the change on a year-over-year? Whichever you think is easier.
Well we don't break that out.
But it was -- again because it was pretty well flat year-over-year urethanes offset obviously the amount of PO/MTBE that was down year-over-year.
We have the next question from the line of Andy Cash from Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'd just like to go back P.J.'s question about the cash flow.
If you look at the end of last year you guys generated cash from operations of about $7.74.
If you're just building a bridge for the year obviously net income change in net income would be what it's going to be and D&amp;A looks pretty stable.
So could you look at -- outlook on the change of working capital with inventories up this year.
I mean are they going to come back down? I mean how do you expect working capital to change over the course of the year? Well we think working capital will be a source of cash this year.
Obviously it wasn't in the first quarter consuming about $80 million.
But again as I mentioned as we think about inventory it really is at a peak in the first quarter.
It's higher than it was last year in terms of relative days.
And we see that coming off and generating cash flow.
We do have some seasonality in the business and we do typically see a build in receivables about this time of the year as well.
So again unlike last year we think that the full year will be a source of cash if crude oil and other carbon-based raw materials behave themselves.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a follow-on.
Any other things such as pension or any other obligations might come cash -- have an impact on cash from operations this year? No.
We mentioned this pension expense issue just a change in the discount rate increased our obligation by almost $600 million.
And the methodology that we use in pension amortize that over the average life of the employee which is about 15 years.
But that in the P&amp;L increases pension expense by about $40 million.
And that's what we're excluding from adjusted earnings.
Next question is from the line of Robert Koort from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Peter I want to dive in a little more on TiO2 and get a sense from you where your inventories stand today what your operating rate levels are.
And then I think you and a few others in the industry have expressed some confidence of getting some sequential improvement as the year unfolds.
And I was wondering if you could speak to what the typical buying patterns of your customers are? I get the sense at least on the paint side of things they don't buy as much in the second half seasonally.
And I'm just wondering if that's going to create somewhat of a headwind to getting the pricing cycle going again? We believe Bob that the operating rates today as an industry -- and again this will vary because we don't have the exact numbers as an industry.
The industry is operating today at around 80% capacity.
And that's up from where we've been the last couple of quarters which were in the low to mid-70s.
As I look at the past quarter volumetrically we finished the first quarter with as high a volume in sales that we've seen over the last 12 months.
So volumetrically from March we finished out the volume.
Directionally we're heading in a strong direction.
So as I said in the past we need a couple of things in order to get pricing to be able to stick in this industry.
We need volumes to be able to recover and we need pricing to stop falling.
So as we look at pricing during the first quarter we saw a little bit of erosion that took place throughout the quarter.
But by and large we started seeing for the first time prices gradually in certain areas for certain customers start to increase as we moved into the second quarter.
Again I want to be clear as we move into the second quarter without full industry support in pricing I believe that second quarter's going to look very similar to the first quarter on a contribution margin basis.
We're going to continue to see pricing come down a little bit in the second quarter but I think that we're going to see volumes make up for that lower pricing.
And so we ought to see contributions margin stay about flat in the second quarter.
If we continue to see the days of inventory drop as we've seen from the fourth quarter moving into the first quarter I believe that again with the destocking that I believe is largely completed the improvement in demand that we're seeing on a global basis and the opportunity to raise prices before us it gives me reason to believe that the second half is certainly going to be stronger than the first half of the year.
Research Division</strong> On a separate note I know last year during your investor day you spoke to the benefits of having some North American exposure to the shale gas revolution.
I wonder if you could sort of calibrate as we look forward have you fully exploited that? Or is there some more opportunity still in front of you? I think in our current production that we have fully exploited that.
But as you know we've announced we are expanding our ethylene oxide capabilities.
We'll be expanding our ethylene capabilities.
And as we expand this I see more and more of our global production particularly in Performance Products that we'll be able to benefit from this lower-cost shale.
So I would hope that that would -- as we look at our amine sales and some of our surfactants and glyco sales around the world that's going to benefit.
Even though the sales will be taking place globally that will benefit from a North American supply basis that's able to take advantage of the low-cost gas.
We also have announced an expansion of our MDI capacity at our Geismar Louisiana facility up to 500 000 metric tons of capacity.
And obviously the new tonnage in -- excuse me in MDI in polyurethanes will be able to benefit from the gas advantage.
And also from the byproduct advantage.
Again we're not just able to get in North America in the area of polyurethanes benefit by -- from our raw material cost we're also able to get a benefit from some of our byproducts that are coming out of our MDI process.
And we're actually able to sell in the frac-ing and into the energy industry which we're not able to do in other parts of the world.
So as I look in those 2 biggest value drivers if you will polyurethanes and performance products I believe that we have exploited as much as we can in our existing platform.
But again as you look at MDI we're expanding our MDI capacities with the performance products we're expanding the natural gas and ethane consuming ends of those products which will give us a greater opportunity to export those products globally.
Research Division</strong> And would you consider investment or coinvestment in a methanol plant? That is something that we continue to review.
We're one of the largest consumers of methanol.
And obviously if the right opportunity where to avail itself that is an area that -- where we would have an interest in exploring opportunities I think we'd create real value.
Our consumption today of methanol would account for -- well depending on what you would categorize as a world scale facility anywhere from 1/2 to 3/4 of the capacity for a worldscale facility.
So I don't want to get ahead of myself but that's an area that I would hope that we would be able to take advantage of in the next year or so in methanol production.
Next question is from the line of John Roberts [ph] from UBS.
This is a question for either Peter or Jon Sr.
But you guys have seen a lot of cycles in a lot of chemicals and I'm curious on how you see that this TiO2 cycle is different from your history because the marketplace is speculating on you being a dis-investor with the cycle down when your history has been you time the cycle very well in the past.
And it seems a little inconsistent to me.
Well I think that as we look at the cyclicality of the TiO2 industry I think that the industry -- I'll speak for myself here I think that I was taken by the fact that within a 4-quarter period you literally saw the highest quarter in -- virtually in the history of the product.
And within 4 quarters you saw one of the lowest quarters in the history of that product.
I've seen the styrenics and the olefins and -- polyolefins and so forth and I've never seen one where you literally peaked and hit a valley all within the same year from the first quarter to the fourth quarter of last year.
In spite of that I think that you need to have a longer-term approach.
TiO2 is going to be a product that will come back as the U.S.
housing comes back.
There was obviously a lot of panic buying that took place 2 years ago where some of our paint customers were -- prebought as much as 6 to 9 months of inventory in some cases.
And I think that as those inventories have diminished TiO2 will get back to as normalized run rate what we believe to be around $200 million.
That's not to say that it's not going to have some peaks and valleys but as I've long maintained I think it's going to stabilize here going forward.
And as I've said in past calls we certainly want to be part of and we believe that there's room for industry consolidation for a company to take advantage of synergies and so forth that could come about through this consolidation.
And frankly we continue to work towards being part of an objective that is going to create value longer term for Huntsman.
And then secondly could you maybe give us a little color on the rate of sequential products on textile effects? We didn't see a lot sequentially here.
Does it turn positive in the coming quarter and then continue to improve through the year? I believe that textile effects will be profitable in 2013.
That means in the second quarter we better start making money in the second and certainly in the third quarter.
It's too early.
I'm not here to speculate what we're going to be in the second quarter but I'd be disappointed if we didn't make money in the second quarter.
Next question is from the line of Mike Ritzenthaler from Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> In the amines business can you elaborate a little bit more about the end market dynamics that are helping price increases stick? And can you please compare the 1Q results in the qualitative outlook that you provided in your prepared comments versus the previous high watermarks for that business? Well I'm going to let Kimo take the second half of that question because I don't have the data in front of me.
I will say on the first half of that question there's a lot of downstream curing applications that -- where we continue to benefit.
We continue to benefit in our crop protection end of the business for amines.
That's used quite heavily in crop protection.
It's used quite heavily in the energy enhanced oil recovery an area we continue to benefit from that.
Europe continues to be a rather stagnant market for us in that area but Asia and North America typically North America continue to be strong markets for us.
Maleic anhydride which is not an amine but it's a product that we have in our amines.
We've run it under our amines umbrella of operations.
That obviously is benefiting from the increase in demand we're seeing in both the housing market and the decrease we're seeing in the raw materials principally in butane.
So as I look across the board there amines is used literally in thousands of end-use applications.
And many of the major applications that deal with housing that deal with construction materials crop protection and energy those would be the 3 largest areas just off the top of my head where we're seeing benefit.
In terms of sequential earnings if you look at sort of our amines group and maleic anhydride fourth quarter to first quarter we doubled our profitability in amines and maleic.
Again it was both in ehtyleneamines Polyetheramines and some of other specialty amines and in maleic anhydride doubling sequentially.
So that gives us that optimism notwithstanding a tough quarter because of the turnaround going into the year that amines are going to carry us through.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Interesting.
And I just have a follow-up on polyurethanes on the MDI operating rates.
And is that business kind of hitting your qualitative for the rest of the year is it predicated on seeing operating rates in the low 90s as we head into the back half? I think that we believe that the operating rates or rises in the very high 80% probably in some regions of the world pushing that 90%.
I think that throughout the year it's obviously going to tighten a little bit as the markets continue to expand in North America expand in Asia and probably be flat to probably contracting in Europe a bit.
But I think globally we'll continue to see expansion of demand increase new capacity coming into the market.
So I would say by the end of the year you'll be more firmly on the 90% 91% capacity utilization where today you're probably in the high 80s.
But I think that as we look at the business improvement throughout the year I think that's not going to be a pop as much as it's going to be just gradual improvement in pricing and in demand and executing a game plan that moves our MDI product further downstream into a greater number of variants.
And this is something that we don't talk about a great deal but as you look at our recent expansion in our Rosenberg facility our Rotterdam plant in the Netherlands we spend a lot of money there to be able to take MDI that we are already producing and to push that product further downstream into variance.
And if you noticed this last year we saw demand growth in Russia in Turkey Eastern Europe parts of Northern Europe.
And a lot of that growth is taking place because we're taking MDI we're making a wider variety of grades with that MDI and we're selling it into a wider market.
And so I believe that as we continue to push that we're going to see a higher quality business develop from that.
And I hope longer-term take some of the cyclicality out of MDI.
Next question is from the line of Laurence Alexander from Jefferies Capital.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First of all on MTBE you said previously that you thought it might be about an $19 million headwind year-over-year this year.
Given feedstock dynamics do you think that might be excessive and you can do better than that? I would think that as we look in the first quarter we certainly didn't do as well in the first quarter as we did last year but because of falling raw material prices we didn't do as poorly as we had anticipated.
So I would hope that -- from what we've seen thus far in MTBE we're doing better than what we had anticipated.
Now I would just strike a note of caution in that part of MTBE's margin comes about because of the difference between North American gas and we're taking our raw materials in North America which are largely based on a gas byproduct butane which we make into isobutane which is a raw material for our PO/MTBE and also methanol which obviously is a byproduct of methane.
So we're taking a low-cost gas pricing field and we're making a product that is competing with Brent C oil.
Now as Brent C oil goes down throughout the year and in natural gas prices which they have recently increased during the first quarter but it appears that they're coming back down now there's also that spread in there.
So while I think that early in the year we're doing better than anticipated I'm not trying to sound negative throughout the rest of the year I guess what I'm saying is there's a lot of variables on MTBE margins that I certainly wouldn't want to speculate.
I think it's going to continue to be a great product for us.
And if we can do what we did last year minus that $90 million maybe it's closer to $70 million now I think we will have a very good year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And secondly on the growth CapEx.
I mean you're running at about $300 million annual growth CapEx run rate.
How much of the tailwind will the project that you're doing give you in 2014 and then as you look out into 2015? Do any have rough sense for that? A lot of these projects Laurence are sort of 18 months 2 years some of them even longer than that.
But when you think about expansion at MDI in the Gulf Coast of Texas when you think about some of the projects we have in TiO2 given this greater flexibilities -- flexibility in ores.
And the shutdown of Basel textile facility and increasing capacity in places like Thailand and India.
Most of all of those projects really come on in 2014 sometime.
There's very few of those that sort of are completed by the end of 2013.
So you should see some benefit a lot of benefit towards the end of 2014.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And as you think about the 2015 benefit I mean do you have a rough bogey that you're aiming for as a floor? In terms of returns all of these projects have greater than 20% unleveraged IRRs probably average closer to 25% unleveraged IRRs.
If that gives you any sense in terms of EBITDA capacity.
Next question is from the line of Ahmed -- sorry bear with me.
Hassan Ahmed from Alembic Global.
Listen quick question around the polyurethane side of things.
Obviously as I take a look at some of the data that's out there industry consultant data they are talking about some incremental capacity coming online over the next couple of years.
But as I look at who is bringing online that capacity you have some new entrants like Seddek possibly you could even call Sadara a new entrant.
I mean what's your view in terms of the timeliness of the arrival of this capacity? Well it's tough to speculate Hassan because there just isn't a lot of information in the industry.
Typically you'll start to see a year or 2 before people bring capacity on you'll start to see product that is going into the market.
Now how does a new plant have product that goes into the market? Well sometimes if we have new capacity coming on in Asia for instance before we started even having production in Asia we went to Asian producers and we purchased product for resell.
We started exporting product from the U.S.
and you started feeding the Asian market so that when you came up with a plant you weren't just starting from 0.
I'm not seeing a lot of those preliminary signs that you typically would see if somebody is coming on in the next year or so.
I would also just note that in a lot of these large projects where you see an MDI plant that's built with a number of other facilities around it and that would include some of these projects going on in China some of them going on in the Middle East typically -- and I would go back to the comments that I said earlier around the Rotterdam facility.
Our facility our MDI plant in Rotterdam can't run unless everybody else around it is running in unison.
This is not like a polypropylene plant where my propylene unit is not working I can buy propylene and just keep running the plan.
In the cases of a Middle East facility or a Chinese facility that's not part of a larger chemical complex you've got to build that entire complex out before you start up the MDI plant.
So as I look at some of these predictions and so some of these large facilities coming on in China or the Middle East and it shows them coming on in the next 12 to 18 months I'm simply not seeing the market behavior that would tell me that that's coming into the market nor am I -- again that is just anecdotal now -- am I seeing the construction of the other facilities that are coming into the marketplace on a timely basis but for some of these facilities to come into the market.
Now will they be built? Absolutely.
But I think that when you look at the timing of these things coming into the market you push some of these projects 12 to 18 months back -- and mind you when a new MDI plant starts up it typical takes 6 to 9 months just to get that plant up and running and producing a capacity.
If you start pushing some of these larger facilities out 9 12 18 months you really see capacity utilization rates really don't get much below 90% in 2016 2017.
Now forgive me I know I've said a lot here but a lot of people are judging our company in its future performance on what will be happening literarily 3 years from now 3 to 4 years from now.
And I just don't think that there's enough visibility in the market at this point to say that all of that capacity is coming on on a timely basis it's all going to hit the market exactly the same time and thus depress prices as some people have speculated.
I got it.
Follow-up if I may on the TiO2 side of things.
I know you're talked about exploring options and you don't want to discuss that on the call.
But if you were to say sell the TiO2 business or any other business for that matter in terms of priorities to use any cash proceeds would debt pay down be front and center or high up there? Well immediately our priority -- and I'm speaking on behalf of the board so I'm going to be very careful here -- but I would say that our immediate priority would be to strengthen our balance sheet and so forth.
But you've also got a genetic mutation that exists perhaps within the Huntsman's family that I don't think that you're going to see a business shrink for very long.
And so I think that if we were to all of a sudden have a large cash infusion because we were able to sell or spin or merge or do something with some asset I think that we'd also have an eye out for opportunities to create further shareholder value.
And that's not to say that we want to go out and re-lever our balance sheet and anything like that.
But I think it is to say that as we look out over the next couple of years we want to maintain a strong balance sheet we want to maintain cash.
But at the same time I think that we're anxious to see what opportunities are out there.
Next question is from the line of Frank Mitsch from Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> This is Sabina Chatterjee in for Frank.
Peter just bigger picture here and sort of touching on some of your previous answers.
If I look back to the guidance you gave during Q4 report there actually isn't much that's different relative to what you shared today.
Maybe despite the force majeure impact.
And I realize it's only 10 weeks later but could you comment on what if anything has materially changed maybe by end market or region in what's underlying your outlook? I'm not sure that there's a great deal that's changed I think from where we were just a few months ago.
I think that perhaps there are greater storm clouds over Europe than what I would have thought a month or 2 ago.
But having said that I think that what we're seeing in the United States economy and frankly what we continued to see in Asia I'm not saying that Asia is -- China is just on fire but our business in Asia just feels like it's better than a lot of what I'm reading people talking about a slow down and so forth.
We continue in the areas of our means our downstream differentiated chemicals and so forth building materials automotives not just in China but in Southeast Asia as well.
We continue even in textiles and in some of the advanced materials applications we continue to see strong markets in Asia.
And so I think that I'd probably see a little bit larger storm clouds in Europe but I think North America I think Asia I think even parts of Latin America are better than where they were a few months ago.
And as I look at raw material costing I think that raw material prices are probably going to be in downward pressure if I look at Brent and so forth I think that oil has taken a drop in the last month or so which means that our raw materials may be falling which means I think we have an opportunity perhaps in the short-term hopefully to expand the margins.
So I think you take all of that give-and-take and it sounds like it's the same forecast but I guess since I spoke last we had an additional $10 million hit that I wasn't expecting we weren't expecting on performance products.
And as I said this morning I think that we can make up that $10 million throughout the year in higher margins.
Yes.
And actually my follow up was on raws.
It actually looks like benzene is likely to increase further.
And obviously now gas has climbed considerably in the past few months.
So what is supporting -- you mentioned the Brent but can you give us maybe a little more detail on your outlook for raws maybe the potential impact and how if any way contracts could provide you some insulation? Well we -- I think with raw materials we look at our largest raw materials on benzene.
Benzene prices fell from the fourth quarter on average coming down in the first quarter we saw prices in the fourth quarter actually were about $4.75 in the first quarter averaged about $5.
In the second quarter we're actually going to see them come down just a little bit because mind you there's about a 60- to 90-day delay in when we buy benzene to when we actually process that benzene.
So I think benzene with crude oil prices coming down and so forth I know that is seems like it's ticking up right now today.
But I think longer-term benzene prices ought to stabilize perhaps even come down just a little bit.
Natural gas prices I think typically this time of year we've had an extremely late winter in North America and Europe I think natural gas prices probably will be under some downward pressure here with crude prices come down with winter finally ending here.
But again that's just -- I'm an optimist when it comes to these sort of things.
The next question is from the line of Jeff Zekauskas from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Your -- the expense that you're excluding for your -- the amortization of pension and postretirement losses was $19 million in first quarter of '13 versus I think $11 million in the first quarter of '12.
Why is it so large versus last year's loss? And that your pension liability went up but it didn't go up -- but it didn't double.
And does this mean that the amounts that you plan to exclude in the coming 3 quarters are much less than $19 million or is $19 million the run rate? Where does that stand? Sure.
Thanks Jeff.
So the change in the discount rate or the actuarial assumptions increased the obligation Jeff by just about $600 million.
And you amortize that over 15 years roughly.
It's an increase of $40 million over 2012.
So the difference between the $19 million and the $10 million from last year is what we will show in the remaining quarters of this year.
So roughly $40 million for the year or $10 million increase each quarter.
Does that make sense? Research Division</strong> Yes it does.
And then secondly in just listening to your commentary about MTBE basically did you think that the adverse change year-over-year did you use to think that it was $90 million and now you think it's $60 million? Is that basically what's happened either because of lower butane prices or because of some other factor? Yes I mean Jeff if I take a snapshot right now today that's what I believe.
I believe in the first quarter instead of seeing a deficit of $60 million we saw something substantially less than that because of lower butane prices that we were able to take advantage of.
And C factors were slightly higher.
But again as I look going forward I think that there is a -- I continue to be optimistic about MTBE but I'd say that our expectation compared to the last year is that it's probably going to be a smaller gap in the $90 million that we talked about earlier.
Ladies and gentlemen that's all the time we have for questions today.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a good day.
Thank you.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Quarter 2 2013 Huntsman Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Julianne and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Kurt Ogden Huntsman Corporation Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Julianne and welcome everyone to Huntsman's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
Joining us on the call today are Jon Huntsman our Founder and Executive Chairman; Peter Huntsman President and CEO; and Kimo Esplin Executive Vice President and CFO.
This morning before the market opened we released our earnings for the second quarter 2013 via press release and posted it on our website huntsman.com.
We also posted a set of slides on our website which we intend to use on the call this morning in the discussion of our results.
During this call we may make statements about our projections or expectations for the future.
All such statements are forward-looking statements.
And while they reflect our current expectations they involve risks and uncertainties and are not guarantees of future performance.
You should review our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for more information regarding the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these projections or expectations.
We do not plan on publicly updating or revising any forward-looking statements during the quarter.
In addition we will also refer to non-GAAP financial measures such as EBITDA adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income or loss.
You can find reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure in our earnings release which has been posted on our website at huntsman.com.
Let's begin on Slide #2.
In our earnings release this morning we reported second quarter 2013 revenue of $2 830 000 000 adjusted EBITDA of $304 million and adjusted earnings per share of $0.39 per diluted share.
I will now turn the call over to Peter Huntsman our President and CEO.
Thank you Kurt.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for taking the time to join us.
Let's turn to Slide #3.
Adjusted EBITDA for our Polyurethanes division in the second quarter of 2013 was $174 million.
During the second quarter of 2013 we declared force majeure in Europe on the supply of certain grades of MDI products.
The situation was primarily caused by a lack of critical raw material supply an offtake from our MDI facility in Rotterdam The Netherlands.
We estimate the EBITDA impact on the second quarter 2013 to be approximately $25 million.
And although the facility is now operating at full rates we expect an approximate $10 million of EBITDA impact in the third quarter as our production catches up with demand.
Excluding the impact of the force majeure outage our MDI volumes grew at approximately 3% globally.
In the Americas we continue to see strong growth in a number of end markets driven primarily by a strong housing rebound.
Our composite wood products business grew at over 20% in Q2 while our commercial insulation sales increased over 10%.
In Asia-Pacific we are seeing the development of different growth rates across the region.
Outside of China we are experiencing attractive growth notably in the ASEAN countries and Japan.
However China's growth has clearly slowed and we remain cautious relative to the second half expectations.
The demand environment within Europe is expected to continue to be flat driven by consumer weakness impacting both our automotive and furniture end markets.
We blend the propylene oxide-based polyols with MDI to create specific polyurethane system solutions for our customers.
In the U.S.
we manufacture our own propylene oxide.
MTBE is a byproduct of this manufacturing process.
Propylene oxide/MTBE earnings in the second quarter improved $11 million compared to the prior year primarily as a result of lower butane costs.
On July 8 2013 we announced a definitive agreement to acquire the business of Oxid a privately held manufacturer and marketer of specialty urethane polyols.
Oxid generates $86 million of revenue in 2012.
This transaction is expected to close during the third quarter of 2013.
The acquisition price is for an amount up to $75 million.
Let's turn to Slide #4.
In the second quarter our Performance Products division earned $111 million of adjusted EBITDA an increase of $24 million compared to the prior year of $87 million.
Contribution margins in our maleic anhydride business improved as a result of raw material costs and firm demand in Europe as well as North America.
Earnings also improved in our U.S.
ethylene derivatives primarily as a result of improved sales volumes.
We feel confident about the trajectory of our amines business which continues to improve.
We have seen increased margin pressure in our European surfactants business that serves the home and personal care markets.
Thus far demand in margins for specialty surfactants have offset this earnings pressure but we are looking at ways to improve the earnings in our European business.
Let's turn to Slide #5.
Adjusted EBITDA in the second quarter in our Advanced Materials division was $32 million an improvement of $6 million compared to the prior year of $26 million.
Our self-help measures announced earlier this year to improve efficiencies and increase our global competitiveness is benefiting this business.
Increased average selling price and lower fixed cost more than offset the negative impact of lower volumes compared to the prior year.
We are on track to deliver approximately $70 million of savings by the middle of 2014.
While globally commodity basic liquid resin margins remain weak we are seeing strength in pricing or demand in more of our specialty products.
Regionally in Europe we are seeing successfully -- we are successfully improving selling prices in coatings construction and wind applications.
In Asia certain specialty applications such as NGL tankers and storage have been a bright spot.
In North America we see continued growth in aerospace and other multifunctional products.
And finally in India and the Middle East basic liquid resin weakness is being offset by a number of Do-It-Yourself applications.
Turning to Slide 6.
Our Textile Effects division reported adjusted EBITDA of $3 million in the second quarter an improvement of $7 million compared to a prior year loss of $4 million.
We have been focused on key market growth as part of our overall restructuring efforts within this division.
As a result our sales volume grew 9% compared to the prior year.
We believe the majority of our growth exceeds improvements in the underlying market.
Most of the increase in earnings is attributed to reduced fixed costs resulting from our restructuring efforts.
We expect this business to slowly improve as approximately half of our expected $75 million in annual restructuring benefits are yet to come.
Let's turn to Slide 7.
Our Pigments division earned $33 million of adjusted EBITDA in the second quarter an improvement of $24 million compared to the prior quarter of $9 million.
We are encouraged by the sequential improvement in our TiO2 business and believe the earnings in our business bottomed out in the first quarter and will improve throughout the remainder of this year.
We believe our restructuring efforts known as Project Transform are having a positive impact on our sales portfolio and cost structure.
In addition our ability to use sulfate ores in approximately 60% of our raw materials production capacity provides a structural cost advantage as the cost of higher-quality ores remains elevated.
We see this advantage remaining for the next several years.
During the fourth quarter we will further reduce our inventory -- during the quarter we further reduced our inventory days to approximately 40 which is normal for this time of year.
We believe the industry is closer to 60 days at the end of the quarter.
We are seeing price stabilization for TiO2 as a result of lower industry inventories and improving demand.
We expect margin improvement in the second half of this year.
We also expect earnings in the fourth quarter to approach seasonally adjusted normalized run rate levels and 2014 is setting up to be at or above our EBITDA normalized run rate of approximately $200 million.
Before sharing some concluding thoughts I'd like to turn a few minutes over to Kimo Esplin our Chief Financial Officer.
Thanks Peter.
Let's turn to Slide 8.
In the second quarter of 2013 our adjusted EBITDA decreased $72 million to $304 million from $376 million in the prior year.
$103 million of this change was attributable to our Pigments division which is going through an industry-wide business cycle.
This was most evident in the decrease of our average selling prices where pigments' prices decreased 26% in local currency terms.
It's worth noting however that we are -- we have now seen sequential stabilization in our Pigments division selling prices.
Compared to the prior year we saw an increase in our raw material costs which is reflected in the direct costs column on the chart.
Notably within our Polyurethanes division the average cost of benzene increased approximately 5%.
These headwinds were partially offset by an increase in sales volumes and lower fixed costs as a result of our restructuring efforts.
Compared to the prior quarter our adjusted EBITDA increased $84 million from $220 million.
Most of the increase was attributable to lower raw material costs as direct costs improved $75 million as well as planned maintenance in our Performance Products division which was completed in the first quarter of 2013.
The impact of the maintenance was approximately $55 million.
Lower fixed cost from our restructuring efforts as well as improved sales volumes also lifted our earnings sequentially.
Slide 9.
Our year-over-year consolidated sales revenue for the second quarter decreased 3%.
Sales volumes improved 3% but were limited as a result of the force majeure at our European MDI facility.
Regionally our sales revenue increased 7% in our North American region where we saw favorable economic conditions.
Sales revenues were flat in our Asia-Pacific region where we've seen lower growth in the Chinese economy.
Sales revenues decreased in other regions of the world.
Our Polyurethanes business is our largest and made up 43% of our total revenue in the second quarter.
Its revenue decreased 1% as a result of the force majeure at our European facility.
Excluding this impact we believe our revenue growth would have been approximately 2%.
The revenue decrease for PO/MTBE was a function of lower average selling prices as sales volumes were flat compared to the prior year.
Compared to the prior quarter sales revenues increased 5% as a result of increased sales volumes partially offset by a decrease in our average selling prices.
Sales revenues increased in all of our divisions with the exception of Advanced Materials.
Slide 10.
At the end of the quarter we had approximately $838 million of cash and unused borrowing capacity.
During the second quarter we completed an amendment to our accounts receivable securitization programs that extended the maturities and reduced the applicable borrowing rates and increased the availability under these low-cost programs.
We spent $92 million on capital expenditures in the second quarter.
In 2013 we expect to spend approximately $450 million on capital expenditures which approximates our annual depreciation and amortization.
Peter? Thank you Kimo.
As we hit the midway point of the year I think it is worth reviewing a few of the objectives that we set out to accomplish earlier in the year.
We said at the beginning of the year that we intended to see all of our non-TiO2 Pigment businesses improve over the previous year regardless of a slowing economy.
While recognizing the steep falloff in earnings that we experienced at the end of last year in our TiO2 business we believe that through our own initiatives and small-market improvements in the TiO2 industry that our earnings would end the year very close to a normalized annualized run rate of approximately $200 million.
While many parts of the global economy continue to languish if you adjust for the impact of our Polyurethanes force majeure our non-TiO2 divisions earned more than $50 million compared to last year.
We continue to weigh various options for our TiO2 division.
I'd like to reiterate what I've said in the past we continue to explore opportunities to participate in a TiO2 consolidation that would create value for our shareholders.
Of course most major TiO2 producers DuPont Rockwood Tronox have made similar public statements in the last 6 months.
Given the recent volatility of the TiO2 profitability cycle we understand that a transaction of any nature would need to be accretive before we would consider deploying additional capital to or exiting this product line.
As we continue to evaluate options that are before us we will refrain from answering questions dealing with potential M&amp;A activity in this area.
Despite modest or flat economic growth around the world we continue to see real opportunity to expand shareholder value.
Just 2 years ago our Textile Effects division was losing $70 million per year.
Today it is contributing to our earnings.
Our Advanced Materials division is showing its first year-on-year and sequential improvements in earnings in over 2 years.
Our Polyurethanes business continues to improve its cost structure and expand its operations with the recent Oxid acquisition.
We stand to benefit in our propylene oxide/MTBE and maleic businesses with lower butane prices and I believe that our TiO2 segment business is advantaged compared to most of our peers.
As we enter the second half of 2013 we will continue to see the benefits of our cost-reduction initiatives as we move closer to completing these projects in early 2014.
These projects remain on track or ahead of schedule.
To date we have seen approximately $65 million of cumulative annual run rate benefit from these initiatives and expect an additional approximate $155 million of annual benefit by the middle of next year.
While we are well positioned to take advantage of an improvement in global economic conditions by this time next year with the completion of an additional $155 million of further cost reduction and continued market growth all of our divisions should be stronger than they are today.
In short we are well positioned to see continued growth in earnings throughout the remainder of the year and 2014.
This across-the-board improvement in margin growth I expect to improve the mix of our earnings and the multiple of our stock value.
And with that I'll turn the call back over to Kurt.
Thanks Peter.
Julianne that concludes our prepared remarks.
Would you explain the procedure for questions and then open the lines? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of P.J.
Juvekar Citi.
Research Division</strong> Peter I just want some clarification on your TiO2 comment about consolidation.
Are you a buyer or seller of TiO2? That would depend on where we think the most value can be created for our shareholders.
P.J.
at this point given where we are in discussions and so forth I don't wish to comment if we're specifically buying or selling.
But again I would just reiterate that our objective in anything that we would do would be to do something that is accretive and something that will add value to our shareholders.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one of your competitors was talking about some real issues in epoxies the new capacity in China.
What are you seeing in that business? And will you proactively look at any options for epoxies? Well I think that as we look at the business globally we continue to be concerned about the margins in the basic liquid resin which is I'll remind you the commodity side of the business.
As we look at the more differentiated side of the business the more specialty side of the business we remain very optimistic.
I think that we continue to see growth in the aerospace in the multifunctional in Do-It-Yourself applications.
We continue to see growth opportunities.
This is a division also that's benefiting directly from the $70 million of costs that are being cut from this division.
So a combination of growth in the specialty ends reducing the footprint of our commodity side of the business and cost initiatives again as I said in my comments we're seeing quarter-on-quarter and sequential growth in our earnings in this business when many of our competitors are seeing a deterioration of earnings in this business.
So again as we see longer term in this business in spite of some of the weaknesses that we'll see in the commodity side of the business this business will continue to improve I believe year-over-year throughout the remainder of this year and going into 2014.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Koort Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Neal Sangani on for Bob.
A question on polyurethanes.
With the slower growth in China has there been any impact to some of the capacity expansions in the region? None that I would think would be material to the business and none that I've read publicly.
I would just note that typically the expansions that we see that are taking place and I'm talking about new facilities go through a multi-year process of approvals and then go through a multi-year construction and startup phase.
So anything that would be kind of under way today as far as construction would already have been started years ago and probably still have another year or 2 until completion.
So I want to emphasize too that as we look at China we are certainly seeing a slowdown in the growth but we're still seeing growing markets.
And as Huntsman looks to our position in China we continue to see growth opportunities there.
We continue to export products into China and this is going to continue to be a very important market for Huntsman.
I think longer term as you look out over the next couple of quarters and over the next year we certainly see this as a growing market and quite an aggressively growing region outside of China as well.
Research Division</strong> And then on TiO2 in the past when looking at these consolidation opportunities you've given some pretty robust synergy targets.
Is there any update there as you've looked at some of these options? No.
I would just say that as we -- you characterized those synergy numbers as being robust and I would say that that is an accurate characterization.
I think that as we look at everything from raw materials to operating synergies logistics and so forth I would continue to believe that that's a potential advantage that we may have.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin McCarthy Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> This is Alex Yefremov for Kevin.
I had a question on your TiO2 profit commentary.
Does your expectation of $200 million EBITDA next year assume any price increases in TiO2? Yes it does...
Research Division</strong> And can you share me the extent of what kind of price increases are required to get there? Well we believe by the end of this year that is in the fourth quarter we will be really close to as Peter said a seasonally adjusted run rate of that normalized level.
And that comes with just very modest price increases largely outside of the U.S.
We are hopeful that we will get more significant increases in 2000 -- towards the end of 2013 and into 2014 as inventories fall.
But generally we believe we can get to that normalized run rate with very modest price increases.
Research Division</strong> I have a follow-up on polyurethanes market.
You indicated that growth is slowing in China and Europe.
If you look out maybe over the next 2 to 3 years should we assume a slower growth rate in that market in terms of demand growth from maybe a 7% to 8% over the last few years? Could it come down from that level or do you think it could sustain -- it could be sustained at that level given that China seems to be slowing? Well obviously that's going to be dependent on the macroeconomic direction that these large economic blocks of the European Union or China or North America take in general.
But it is worth noting that as you look at the growth rates over the last 20 years in MDI it has largely been dominated by the growth in North America and in Europe.
As you look at the growth rates going forward its Asian demand for -- in consumption of MDI now exceeds that of Europe or North America the growth rates in Asia will start to dominate global growth patterns in MDI.
So I remain of the belief that as you look out over the next decade that global growth rates for MDI should be very stable if not even better than what they've been in the past couple of years because China is going to continue -- and the ASEAN market Asia in general India and so forth these are going to -- the growth rate of these countries will start dominating the global growth rate where again in the past that would have made up 20% 25% of the global demand.
Now you see it closer to 30% 40% depending on which region you're looking at here.
So I remain bullish.
And I -- again I would just note that as you look at what's taking place in China I don't see this necessarily as a long-term slowdown in China.
I think that you'll see a quarter or 2 of a slowdown and then a return to a more traditional growth in China of 6% 7% 8% GDP.
And I'll just add Peter I think in Europe and in Asia we can continue to see a trend an accelerating trend of interest and investment in energy efficiency.
And so this growth in the construction insulation markets we think will continue at well above normalized or average levels.
Your next question comes from the line of Ivan Marcuse KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> The first question on your performance segment you had sales that dropped I guess $7 million year-over-year but your EBITDA was up nicely I think $24 million if I remember correctly.
Was that more of a function that raw materials fell faster than pricing did? Or was there something that came out for cost savings? Could you just bridge how that contribution margin was so high? Sure.
Yes you're right on.
Costs raw material costs fell on a direct basis and we held price so price is pretty flat.
So we enjoyed an increased contribution margin.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then as a follow-up to that in -- for performance even with sort of the I guess you mentioned pressure on surfactants in the European region.
With everything else going right would you still expect to see some year-over-year improvement in EBITDA margin in the third quarter and going forward? Yes.
I mean we believe that the run rate for the second quarter is sustainable at these $100 million kind of quarter levels.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then my last question for Europe and your Polyurethanes business there's been a couple -- a few companies that have recently mentioned there's been a weakness in the insulation business specifically in Northern Europe are you seeing that? And is that incorporated into your outlook in Europe in regards to a flat European demand in polyurethanes? I think that we continue to see -- compared to the -- we continue to see things pretty flat in Europe on a construction basis and I think that's probably going to continue.
We'll continue to see modest growth in the areas of insulation and construction materials.
But as I read recently this last week as we look at the producer -- or excuse me the Purchasing Managers Index and so forth of Europe I guess I have been pretty bearish on Europe in the past.
I'm not saying that I think Europe is going to go through the roof.
But as I look at the overall trend in Europe I'm hopeful in the next couple of quarters here that we'll start seeing gradual improvement that is taking place in Europe as you see a lot of pent-up demand.
We believe that the market year-over-year was flat in Europe in MDI consumption.
We were down double-digits because of the force majeure but we think the market generally was flat.
Your next question comes from the line of Andy Cash SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just staying with polyurethanes I mean you had overall flat volume.
Could you break out rough terms in the second quarter or the first half what was the year-over-year volume growth in the Americas versus x Americas? And then in order to achieve similar EBITDA for this year versus last what sort of volume do you expect in the Americas and outside the U.S.? So in the Americas in the second quarter year-over-year we grew at roughly 11%.
And we continue to see those sort of growth trends driven by construction in the overall economy in the U.S.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the second...
If you look at sort of first half versus first half last year I think we're on track when you adjust for the force majeure in Europe.
And so the kind of growth rates we would expect would be similar to what we're experiencing now.
I think we would hope to see Europe and Asia strengthen in the second half but we can achieve these last year's profitability in MDI specifically with these kinds of growth rates.
I will note that in the second half of the year last year there was an industry outage in propylene oxide/MTBE -- excuse me specifically in MTBE that benefited us by $30 million in the third quarter last year.
So that comparison will be negative.
But the core MDI business we're on track to meet last year's profitability and a little bit more.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's very helpful.
And then just I'm assuming that raw materials in the second half will be a little bit of a help compared to the first.
Is that a fair assessment in polyurethanes? Yes.
Prices have been falling yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Frank Mitsch Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to get a better understanding on the TiO2 side of things with respect to the comment that the fourth quarter will be "seasonally adjusted normalized EBITDA." I just want to make sure that we're on the same page.
You're talking something shy of that $50 million per quarter run rate I would imagine given the fact that it is normally a little bit of a falloff.
And to that end as you're ending -- the industry is ending Q2 at a 60-day inventory level which is above normal and here we are at the end of the coating season.
Just tick through some of the factors that gives you confidence in being able to hit that quasi-above current run rate in the TiO2 space? Well Frank as we get to the fourth quarter we said that we would be approaching or slightly below that run rate of annualized run rate $200 million which would -- say that the guidance that we're giving for the fourth quarter -- and again that's still a distance away when you take the volatility of the TiO2 market.
But we're saying that we believe that there will be quarterly improvement going into the third quarter and subsequently going into the fourth quarter and that the fourth quarter would be just under that $50 million sort of a run rate.
We base that on improving demand and on our ability to improve pricing particularly outside of North America.
We're not a major player in the North American markets.
And I think that it's -- North America has got substantial pricing protection with the rest of the world I think we've got a little more of an ability to adjust prices on a more timely basis.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
And I think you earlier mentioned that you are seeing some benefit on the raw materials side there as well? Look I would suspect that in the third and fourth quarter we will see some gradual benefit in raw material.
But the majority of our raw materials is ilmenite and that's kind of in the 2 to 230 [ph] sort of a -- per ton sort of a pricing.
And I'm -- yes you might see a bit of incremental improvement there but it's not going to be substantial.
Frank let me just add that of course we've had a legacy ore contract most of which expired at the end of last year that we've continued to enjoy the benefit of.
Because ilmenite and sulfate slag prices have continued to fall the benefit of those contracts or those -- that legacy inventory is much smaller than it was.
And so moving into 2014 without the benefit of that ore you're not going to see a big increase in ore prices for us.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's helpful Kimo.
And coming back to Slide 8 the waterfall slide obviously you showed the year-over-year price decline and much of that was TiO2 but you showed sequentially a $118 million negative impact from Q1.
What's the major driver or drivers of that? Well we saw -- excuse me let me just grab -- $118 million on price sequential is that what you're asking Frank? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes correct.
Yes.
It's -- you saw it in our MTBE business and of course that tracks crude oil and octane prices so that's half of it.
And we saw some decreases in our Performance Products businesses in terms of price.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right great.
But raw's dropped even more so therefore you saw the benefit in the Performance Products.
All right.
Yes I mean -- so in Performance Products specifically roughly $40 million decrease in price on EBITDA terms but our benefit was $65 million on the direct costs.
Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Laurence Alexander Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Rob Walker on for Laurence.
I guess just on the cash flow.
I'm having a hard time getting to the cash from operations.
If I look at your net income your D&amp;A your working capital it still leaves about $180 million use for the first 6 months of the year.
I understand there are some outages and so forth but can you roughly break out that $180 million? And what are your expectations for the second half of the year for cash from operations? Yes.
Well we've built some receivables.
Inventory came down and payables we lost some of our cash from payables.
But we expect the second half of the year to be positive cash flow from working capital.
Again specifically on cash flow from operations what was your question? Research Division</strong> I guess even if you factor in the use from working capital the first half of the year there's still a large use of cash of about $180 million to get to the negative 2 from the 6 months.
So what was that and what are your expectations for cash from operations for 2013? We have -- of course we're using cash for restructuring.
We used roughly in the second quarter $30 million of cash for restructuring.
And we have been funding our pension over and above our expense and that's roughly $40 million.
So that's probably the lion's share of what you're looking at.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And do you expect that in the back half of the year we should see more of net income being converted to cash from ops? Yes.
Yes absolutely.
Again first half of the year from a working capital standpoint is always a big use and we usually enjoy a pretty good cash flow from working capital in the second half of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just a quick question on maleic anhydride.
Can you talk about your ability to hold pricing given falling butane prices? Well butane obviously is just a component of that maleic pricing.
I think that more important with the maleic profitability is going to be around overall demand and the overall basket of raw materials.
Many of our competitors are using other raw materials other than butane specifically benzene so there's also a difference there as well.
But yes I believe that we certainly will be able to hold our margins in maleic.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Ritzenthaler Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> On Oxid you've shown the benefits of focusing on specialization on the Isocyanate side and as it sounds like from Oxid it's a relatively small I guess acquisition but the opportunity seems like it's in the technology leverage.
So I was curious about your view on the potential for margin lift in that segment when the polyol side of the Polyurethane is specialized as well as the Isocyanate.
Yes.
I believe that globally we intend to take this technology.
We'll first capitalize on the acquisition itself and make sure that we fully integrate it to customers and the overhead and so forth.
And this is certainly a technology and know-how that we want to take globally.
This is an end of our Polyurethanes business that we continue to move downstream.
We also continue to move horizontally and using -- utilizing our own propylene oxide to develop propylene or polyol production and consumption internally both in Asia Europe and in North America.
So as we look at our improvements that we've seen in MDI year-over-year a nice part of that is the acquisitions not only that we have seen or will be from the acquisition of Oxid but also the acquisitions we've had in Turkey and Russia Systems House in Germany an acquisition in Japan.
These have all contributed to again diversifying and moving further downstream our MDI strategy margins and pricing.
And I think longer term this is certainly going to give us better stability.
But yes we do intend to take this acquisition and to leverage it on a global basis.
We have had and have great operations in polyether polyols.
This is -- we've never been basic in polyester polyols that go into spray-on foam and insulation.
And so this is a great acquisition for us.
It gives us that technology as Peter said.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful to kind of put that in context.
And then I guess I'm going to ask the China question from a little bit different angle.
On the potential for licensing some of your technology over there is there an impact on the NPV of some of the royalty streams that you've already licensed over there? And has it sort of impacted the conversation around other licensing opportunities? You're talking in context of the slowing growth? Research Division</strong> Yes exactly.
Yes.
No.
I've not seen anything that would -- that has materially moved any of our discussions or licensing payments.
Your next question comes from the line of Hassan Ahmed Alembic Global.
One of the things that you talked about as you were talking about considering any transaction within Pigments was that you wanted it to be near-term accretive which obviously is completely understandable.
But if one were to think about the longer-term side of things let's say if you were to take a look at the 5- or 10-year history of TiO2 within your broader portfolio what the returns look like there and what the returns historically over call it 5 to 10 years have looked like without TiO2 in the mix would the overall company returns be higher or lower? And obviously the only reason I'm asking this question is just in terms of considering any transaction.
I'd imagine that you would be considering such things.
Well let me just comment on the macro side of that question.
I'm going to ask Kimo to comment on some of the percentages of make up of earnings and so forth.
We have talked about in TiO2 in the past about our wanting to be part of a consolidation play or something that will create value.
I would remind you that we've also mentioned about the opportunity to give us optionality in TiO2 and this may include something that would be the opportunity to take our TiO2 business and perhaps merge it sell it or combine it with another and spin it.
So there's -- I think when we talk about TiO2 and its optionality I don't want to see us get pigeonholed into there's only 1 or 2 options there.
I really do think that there are multiple options here and including the idea of taking a group of assets in combination and looking at that as outside of our portfolio but continue to benefit from that.
As it relates to return on capital at roughly $150 million of EBITDA the business generates above its cost to capital.
It's probably around 13%.
In our forecast of a normalized EBITDA of $200 million that generates kind of a 16% return on assets.
And so it is accretive.
It is a positive generator of value relative to the capital we've employed.
So again we think there's a step change here with the ore situation and our ability to consume sulfate-based ores.
It's going to increase that normalized level and of course the return.
Very good.
And a follow-up again sticking to TiO2.
As I take a look at your slides the quarter-over-quarter volume improvement was 4% within Pigments.
Now if I compare that to say DuPont that number was closer to 18%.
So just trying to figure out what the reason was behind such a delta.
Was it maybe in the quarter you had much stronger sort of chloride-based sales such as sulfate or anything to that effect? Well we have -- over 50% of our sales are in Europe.
And obviously European growth rates were a lot lower than North American growth rates.
So that was the main cause of the drag? Well not as a drag but sort of delta.
Our view of -- year-over-year growth rates was roughly in line with what we grew.
Year-over-year we were at 9% and we think global growth rates are really really close to that.
Sequentially we think the industry grew at about 10%.
We were a little less than that and that -- well we were about what 4% 5% and that's largely due to our European mix.
Your next question comes from the line of John Roberts UBS.
Research Division</strong> Do you think down the road it might make sense at some point to combine your Advanced Materials and Performance Products segments into one and take out another layer of cost.
It just strikes me that Advanced Materials isn't all that much more advanced than the Performance Products in terms of the financials.
It's just one big portfolio that maybe you might be able to rationalize a little better and take some more cost out if it were combined.
In the short term I certainly don't see that happening.
I mean as I look at the chemistry the manufacturing and the end-use applications between our Performance Products and our Advanced Materials I don't see a great deal of synergies.
I think where we see overlap in these businesses in the areas of procurement and SG&amp;A in the areas of environmental health and safety and so forth we're certainly capitalizing on those things.
But if we were to combine those businesses I don't see really any cost savings that would come from that.
The reason that we have the businesses broken out is to be able to maximize our focus on manufacturing costs and managing that supply chain going all the way from raw materials all the way to the customer.
And if we have commonality we will combine.
But as we look on a broad sense to the applications where we are supplying in Advanced Materials and Performance Products I think they are distinct.
Again now where we have overlap for instance in wind where we're supplying both an epoxy product and an amines hardener in the production of wind blades we are working internally to take advantage of those sort of opportunities.
But I think as we look at a broad sense and again I don't mean to expand the answer here but I hope that people on this call get a sense for the magnitude of the synergies that we are focused on company-wide that magnitude of pushing $0.25 billion.
And we're looking at a number of positions of full time and contracted positions over the course of the last couple of quarters and over the course of the next few quarters the 1 700 positions that we reduced in the company as we continued to wring out these synergies and the market improvements that we'll continue to see that we've seen so far this year we'll continue to see throughout the year and we'll see going into next year.
And certainly if we see any opportunities of combining divisions we'll do those.
But right now our focus on the divisions is managing that supply chain as effectively and as efficiently as we can and I think that we're benefiting from that structure.
The only thing I'd add is that the Advanced Materials business for the most part is a formulation business and Performance Products is a component business.
So if you look at Jurong Island and look at the amines we produce there they are components.
If you go to Panyu China and it's a formulation business where you're mixing all sorts of different things together to make a more customed product.
So we think fundamentally the manufacturing footprint is very different.
Research Division</strong> And do you have an intermediate-term view on butane prices? There's a debate whether there's more length to the lighter NGLs or will it go back to being more net back from oil-based raw material pricing? Well I think if I had an accurate view on that I'd probably be more into trading.
But I do think that as we look forward there will be more C4s or butane products that will be coming off of the shale gas production.
A lot of that shale gas that's being produced is a heavier wetter gas that does contain butane.
And I believe that butane fundamentally going forward will be an advantaged raw material in North America and it will lean a bit more towards the natural gas area of pricing rather than its traditional ratio to crude oil.
I think that you'll see advantaged pricing particularly in the summer months when it's coming out of the gasoline pool and it continues to be supplied from the natural gas production and you'll see prices probably increase a bit throughout the winter months.
But I think in North America butane -- in North America in particular butane is going to be an attractive raw material.
And relative to crude oil in its ratio to crude oil I think that it will continue to improve going forward.
You're next question comes from the line of Roger Spitz Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Your basic epoxy resins is that EBITDA in Q2 still negative? And did it decline or improve versus Q1? It's negative and it's in line with the loss in EBITDA terms with the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Can you give a sense of the size of the negativeness? It's roughly $5 million loss in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And last excluding the Rotterdam MDI force majeure would MDI contribution margins have strengthened year-over-year? Yes.
Yes it would have.
And I think that we reported -- I know your question is around contribution margin.
As we look at the EBITDA we reported a flat EBITDA and when you take out the impact of the Rotterdam force majeure I think that we would've seen a particularly in MDI a nice improvement in earnings during that time period about $25 million higher.
Operator I think that will conclude the time that we have this morning.
Thank you.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Kurt Ogden for closing remarks.
We want to thank everyone for joining us on the call today.
If there are any additional follow-up questions feel free to reach out to the IR team.
Thanks again for joining us.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Quarter 3 2013 Huntsman Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Matthew and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
And now I'd like to turn the call over to Mr.
Kurt Ogden who is Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Matthew and good morning everyone.
Welcome to our third quarter earnings call.
We are dialing in from a remote location and so hopefully the sound quality is okay.
Joining us on the call today are Jon Huntsman our Founder and Executive Chairman; Peter Huntsman President and CEO; and Kimo Esplin Executive Vice President and CFO.
This morning before the market opened we released our earnings for the third quarter 2013 via press release and posted it on our website huntsman.com.
We also posted a set of slides in our website which we intend to use on the call this morning in the discussion of our results.
During this call we may make statements about our projections or expectations for the future.
All such statements are forward-looking statements.
And while they reflect our current expectations they involve risks and uncertainties and are not guarantees of future performance.
You should review our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for more information regarding the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these projections or expectations.
We do not plan on publicly updating or revising any forward-looking statements during the quarter.
In addition we will also refer to non-GAAP financial measures such as EBITDA adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income or loss.
You can find reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in our earnings release which has been posted on our website at huntsman.com.
Let's turn to some highlights on Slide #2.
In our earnings release this morning we reported third quarter 2013 revenue of $2 842 000 000 adjusted EBITDA of $376 million and adjusted earnings per share of $0.54 per diluted share.
I will now turn the call over to Peter Huntsman our President and CEO.
Thank you Kurt.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us.
Let's turn to Slide #3.
Adjusted EBITDA for our Polyurethanes division in the third quarter 2013 was $215 million.
This compares favorably to the prior year's adjusted EBITDA of $243 million considering the extended force majeure at our European MDI facility which had a negative impact of approximately $10 million in the third quarter of 2013 and the approximate $30 million of nonrecurring PO/MTBE benefit from the industry supply outages in the third quarter of 2012 that we identified last year and last quarter.
After these unusual events our earnings this quarter would've reflected an increase of approximately $12 million compared to the prior year.
On August 29 2013 we announced the completion of the acquisition of Oxid a privately held manufacturer and marketer of specialty urethane polyols.
We're very excited about this business and expect it to contribute approximately $15 million to $20 million of annual adjusted EBITDA.
Excluding the impact of the force majeure outage our MDI volumes grew at approximately 9% globally compared with the prior year.
Within the quarter we saw double-digit growth in 2 of our largest end market insulation and composite wood products.
We expect continued strong demand in the Americas and Asia with Europe showing modest growth driven by a recovery in our insulation end market.
We combined propylene oxide-based polyols with MDI to create specific polyurethanes system solutions for our customers.
In the U.S.
we manufacture our own propylene oxide.
MTBE is a coproduct of our manufacturing process.
PO/MTBE earnings in the third quarter decreased $30 million compared to the prior year primarily due to the approximate $30 million of nonrecurring benefit from industry supply outages in the third quarter 2012.
Recently we've seen a moderation in MTBE margins.
Butane prices which are key raw material have increased since we approached the winter driving season in North America.
In addition the price of premium unleaded gasoline for which the value of MTBE have a strong correlation had decreased noticeably.
At present relative to last year's fourth quarter we are seeing a margin squeeze of about $0.30 a gallon on 65 million gallons we expect to sell in the fourth quarter of this year.
Let's turn to Slide #4.
In the third quarter our Performance Products division earned $122 million of adjusted EBITDA an increase of $13 million compared to the prior year period of $109 million.
Following the successful first quarter maintenance shutdown of our olefins and ethylene oxide facility in Port Neches Texas we're seeing improved production yields which together with lower ethane have lowered our manufacturing costs.
During the quarter we saw strong demand in Europe and North America from maleic anhydride.
We believe our butane-based process is economically advantaged compared to others that consume benzene.
In addition we believe we benefit due to some industry outages that occurred during the quarter.
Our amines business continue to recover.
We saw an improvement in sales volumes and margins in the third quarter of this year.
We expect this trend to continue.
We have seen increased margin pressure on the part of our European surfactant businesses that serve the home and personal care markets.
On October 1 we announced plans to restructure this business and focus on more differentiated chemistry.
We expect to be completed with these initiatives by the end of 2014 with an annual EBITDA improvement of approximately $20 million.
Let's turn to Slide #5.
Adjusted EBITDA for the third quarter of our Advanced Materials division was $39 million an improvement of $8 million compared to the prior year of $31 million and an improvement of $7 million compared to the prior quarter of $32 million.
Earlier this year we announced restructuring efforts within this business to improve efficiencies and increase our global competitiveness.
We are now seeing the benefit of these efforts.
Our results this quarter are the first time in multiple years where we've seen back-to-back sequentially improving quarterly earnings.
I'm very encouraged by the momentum within this business particularly when I consider the majority of our estimated $70 million savings program are yet to be realized.
We are preferentially walking away from certain low-margin business most noticeably in the basic liquid resin market where conditions continue to be oversupplied or weak.
In response and in order to rebalance our internal material needs we are closing our Spanish and Indian basic liquid resin-producing facilities by the end of this year.
Although our sales volumes decreased 15% compared to the prior year the majority of this decrease was attributed to basic liquid resin which decreased 26%.
Conversely volumes have been growing at double-digit rates in our Aerospace business.
And although it comprises only 10% of our total revenue it has our largest -- it has our highest margins and make up approximately 20% of our earnings.
Let's turn to Slide #6.
Our Textile Effects division reported adjusted EBITDA of $8 million in the third quarter an improvement of $17 million compared to the prior year's loss of $9 million.
Our restructuring efforts in this division have been focused on improving our sales profiles through market share gains and improving margins as well as lowering our fixed costs.
During the quarter our sales volumes grew 6% compared to the prior year driven in large part by above-average growth in key countries that we have been focused on within Asia and Eastern Europe.
More than half of our sales are generated in Asia where we saw double-digit growth compared to the prior year.
Our fixed costs decreased compared to the prior year as a result of our restructuring efforts that will be completed by the end of this year.
We successfully finished production in our facility in Switzerland during the third quarter while maintaining excellent environmental and safety performance throughout the transition phase.
We will decommission the facility in the fourth quarter.
We expect to capture approximately $25 million of incremental annual run rate savings next year.
Let's move on to Slide #7.
Our Pigments division earned $36 million of adjusted EBITDA in the third quarter.
Sales volumes improved 20% compared to the prior year as demand improved in all regions.
Compared to the prior quarter our sales volumes decreased as we experienced production issues resulting from the ramp up of production rates to meet current demand.
We estimate the EBITDA impact on the third quarter this year was approximately $4 million.
We believe our restructuring efforts known as Project Transform are having a positive impact on our sales portfolio and cost structure.
We have successfully contained inflationary pressure on our fixed costs which were flat during the quarter compared to the prior year.
In addition our ability to use low-cost feedstock ores such as sulfate slag and ilmenite in approximately 75% of our production capacity provides a structural cost advantage as the cost of higher quality ores remains elevated.
We expect this advantage to remain for several years.
Our inventory days were approximately 45 days at the end of the quarter which is normal for this time of year.
We believe the industry is closer to 65 days at the end of the quarter.
On September 17 we announced an agreement with Rockwood Holdings to acquire their Performance Additives and Titanium Dioxide businesses for $1.1 billion in cash and the assumption of unfunded pension liabilities estimated $225 million.
We expect to close off the transaction in the first half of 2014.
With improving market conditions and pro forma synergies in excess $130 million we believe this acquisition will add significant shareholder value.
Before sharing some concluding thoughts I'd like to turn a few things over to Kimo Esplin our Chief Financial Officer.
Thanks Peter.
Let's go to Slide 8.
In the third quarter of 2013 our adjusted EBITDA decreased $35 million to $376 million from $411 million in the prior year.
We experienced 2 meaningful headwinds in the quarter that obscure the tremendous improvements in our underlying business.
First our Pigments division which has been going through an industry-wide destocking cycle decreased $39 million compared to the prior year.
This was most evident in the decrease of our average selling prices where Pigments decreased 24% in local currency terms.
It's worth noting however that we have now seen sequential quarterly stabilization in our Pigments division selling prices.
Second within our Polyurethanes division last year we enjoyed the benefits of approximately $30 million of PO/MTBE earnings [ph] that were attributable to nonrecurring industry supply outages.
Compared to the prior year we saw an increase in our raw material costs which is reflected in the Direct Costs column on the chart.
The headwinds were partially offset by an increase in sales volumes and lower fixed costs of $37 million as a result of our restructuring efforts.
Compared to the prior quarter our adjusted EBITDA increased $72 million from $304 million.
As noted in our press release this morning all of our divisions improved compared to the prior year.
Most of the increase was attributable to lower raw material costs as direct costs improved $57 million.
Continued sequential restructuring benefits of $13 million in both -- in lower fixed costs as well as improved sales volumes also lifted our earnings Slide 9.
Our year-over-year consolidated sales revenue for the third quarter increased 4%.
This was primarily due to an improvement in our sales volumes of 7% partially offset by a decrease in average selling prices of 3%.
Regionally our Rest of World category which makes up 20% of our total revenue and is primarily comprised of Latin America the Middle East and Africa saw sales revenue increase of 14% despite the fact that Brazil was down 6%.
Asia-Pacific and Europe each grew 3% partially offset by the 1% decrease in North America.
The decrease in North America was primarily attributable to lower PO/MTBE selling prices where last year's price was unusually high as a result of industry supply outages.
Our Polyurethanes businesses is our largest and made up 45% of total revenue in the third quarter.
MDI revenue increased 8% and more than offset lower PO/MTBE prices.
Performance Products and Textile Effects both saw attractive growth whereas we preferentially walked away from low-margin business in Advanced Materials.
And Pigments is going through an industry destocking cycle.
Compared to the prior quarter sales revenues were flat and increased average selling prices were offset by sales mix effect.
Sales revenue was flat to up in our large divisions Polyurethane and Performance Products which represent more than 70% of our total revenue.
Let's go to Slide 10.
We spent $114 million on capital expenditures in the third quarter of 2013 and $295 million in the 9 months ended September 30.
In 2013 we expect to spend approximately $450 million on capital expenditures which approximates our annual depreciation and amortization.
On average our annual maintenance capital expenditures are approximately $150 million.
However this year and next we expect it to be between $175 million and $200 million as we update process safety systems at our largest facilities.
In our review of discretionary capital expenditures we look for projects with unlevered internal rate of returns in excess of 20%.
We summarized for you on this slide some of the projects that are underway and we've been investing in.
In polyurethanes we've been investing in an MDI expansion in the United States.
And in Europe we've increased our capacity to further derivatize the MDI molecule downstream.
We've also leveraged our PO/MTBE expertise in technology and partnered with Sinopec to build a joint venture PO/MTBE facility in China.
One of the largest projects we've been going -- we have going on right now is an expansion of our ethylene oxide capacity in the United States which will allow us to maximize underutilized ethylene oxide derivative capacity existing already at Port Neches Texas plant.
Within our Performance Products division we also plan on adding additional polyetheramine capacity in Singapore to meet growing demand in the Asian region.
Within Advanced Materials we're expanding our ability to produce multi-functional resins in the United States.
These high-performance specialty resins are used in composite materials in the aerospace and other high-value markets.
Our capacity will ramp up with increased demand for these strong lightweight materials.
In our Textile Effects business we have migrated our production out of Europe and into Asia.
We're expanding our production capabilities in Thailand to meet this shift in regional production.
Large projects within our Pigments business are focused on improving our manufacturing and production efficiency.
In France we're using byproduct from the manufacturing process to convert what would otherwise be waste into magnesium sulfate and sold into the fertilizer market.
In Italy we're increasing our ability to consume low-cost ilmenite ores.
Combined we expect these projects to have an approximate $190 million EBITDA impact.
Let's turn to Slide 11.
Our adjusted effective income tax rate for the third quarter this year was 39%.
During the quarter we experienced higher earnings in the United States and losses in certain European countries where we don't enjoy the benefit into tax valuation allowances.
We expect our fourth quarter and full year tax rate to be approximately 36%.
We expect our long-term effective income tax rate to be approximately 30% to 35%.
At the end of the quarter we have a little more than $1 billion of cash at unused borrowing capacity.
We've made meaningful improvements in our working capital investment.
During the quarter our primary working capital decreased providing a source of $121 million of cash.
We expect the full year 2013 primary working capital to be a cash flow positive.
As it relates to the pending acquisition of Performance Additives in TF [ph] to the business of Rockwood which was announced on September 17 we have been making good progress in a number of areas over the past 6 weeks.
This includes the following: We have secured certain amendments to our senior secured credit facilities and have successfully completed the syndication of a new $1.2 billion 7-year term loan and $200 million increase in our revolver that was funded -- will be used to finance the cash purchase price of $1.1 billion.
S&amp;P and Moody's have concluded their review of the acquisition on Huntsman's credit profile and have confirmed Huntsman's corporate credit rating of the existing BB and Ba3 levels respectively.
We are fully engaged with competition law regulators in both United States and EU as they begin their process of reviewing proposed combination.
We have begun detailing -- detailed planning around the transition of the business from Rockwood ownership to Huntsman ownership with the goal to accomplish this as smoothly and efficiently as possible in order to put Huntsman in the position to capture the synergies that have been identified.
We are committed to closing the transaction with Rockwood as soon as possible.
However the exact timing is still somewhat uncertain given the nature of the regulatory approval process.
We expect to close on the transaction sometime in the first half of 2014.
With that we'll turn it back over to Peter for some concluding remarks.
Thank you Kimo.
I believe that the underlying quality of earnings in the third quarter were exceptionally strong.
A year ago at this time our Textile Effects division lost $9 million of EBITDA.
This past quarter thanks to lower cost and stronger sales we improved EBITDA by $17 million.
Our Advanced Materials business have seen continued downward pressure on its commodity products.
Yet we saw a year-over-year EBITDA improvement of $8 million as we cut costs and push downstream formulated and specialty systems.
Our Performance Products division had the strongest quarter in its history earning $122 million of EBITDA.
While we are seeing very strong results in our maleic anhydride business I still see plenty of upside as the means continue to improve.
This past month we broke ground on our ethylene oxide expansion that will make our Port Neches Texas facility the largest North American ethylene oxide facility allowing plenty of growth in the years to come.
With our European MDI force majeure behind it we continue to see strong growth and margins in our MDI business.
In fact the results of our combined non-Pigments divisions are as strong as they've ever been.
Having said that we still have plenty of opportunity to improve our earnings even in the sluggish global economy.
While we cut over $100 million in costs by the end of next year we will have an additional $140 million in EBITDA as a result of our restructuring -- ongoing restructuring efforts.
We continue to see our Pigments demand improve industry conditions continue to get better and I believe that we are positioned to see strengthening market conditions.
During the third quarter we announced the acquisition of Rockwood's Performance Additives and Titanium Dioxide businesses.
Having had a chance to visit additional sites and to meet with more associates I believe that we are buying this business at the right time.
I further believe that the $130 million in synergies that will come from combining our businesses will make a strong and value-creating company.
Looking ahead we expect to see the usual fourth quarter seasonal slow down as it typically impacts our EBITDA by approximately 25% in the fourth quarter compared to the third.
That being said we continue to see better than GDP growth in most major markets around the world and see continued opportunity to further create shareholder value.
With that I'll turn the call back over to Kurt in question and answers.
Thanks Peter.
Matthew that concludes our prepared remarks.
Will you explain the procedure for questions and answers and then open the line? [Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of P.J.
Juvekar of Citi.
Research Division</strong> How much inventories do you have -- ore inventory do you have from -- under ore contracts? And is there another tranche of ore contracts that will expire at the end of 2013? P.J.
the legacy ore contracts really expired at the end of 2012 and really sort of carried over with inventory -- have for the most part all been consumed.
So really they were consumed in the third quarter.
I think you'll see in the fourth quarter our average ore costs won't move very much simply because ore prices have dropped pretty close to where those legacy ore prices were priced at.
So there won't to be much of a change in terms of our cost structure.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And secondly on MDI can you just review the supply-demand balance and tell us what your view is on this MDI expansion in China? Well we're a bit premature to announce anything in China.
I think that we continue to make meaningful progress in the approval process.
But I don't want to get ahead of Chinese authorities and where we expect to come out there.
But we certainly are expecting to have a new facility online sometime by the end of 2017.
This is going to put some strain on our overall global demand fixture and that we are today essentially sold out.
I think that we do have an opportunity to increase prices in the coming years and increase bottom slice perhaps our less profitable customers and products and upgrade.
The recent maintenance work that we did in Rosenberg added the ability to split more MDI and to upgrade the quality of the MDI that we're producing.
So going forward I would expect MDI as we look into 2014 to continue to tighten.
I think that industry rates today are around 90%.
I will tell you that it might be a little less than that.
And Europe it would certainly be tighter than that in Asia at least for us.
And in North America so -- but as we go forward again I want to emphasize that we want to put as much emphasis on the margin per ton and our ability to take that MDI further downstream and to create more value on a per ton basis because I think that as we look at the outyear the '15 '16 going to '17 fill and then capacity starts out.
We're going to have more of an opportunity to increase the value the tonnage we have rather than adding a lot of new tons.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Koort of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> If you could give us some data that might help us figure out the progression of Pigment earnings as you go through 2014? Specifically can you give us some sense of how variable operating rates were through '13 -- through the quarters in '13? And then secondly can you give us some sense of what you'd expect on spreads for TiO2? So I recognize higher rates will give you better fixed costs but what would your -- be your expectation on price versus cost looking into '14? And then how quickly do ore contracts move relative to the past few years? Would we expect a coincident effort by your suppliers to gain any price that you might see in the Pigment markets? Well I think that the majority of our pigments -- I'll start with the back end of that question and maybe let Kimo answer on the front end of the question.
I think with the ore contract we envision ilmenite ore and ilmenite slag -- sulfate slag to remain pretty stable in pricing if not over the course of next quarter to have a bit of downward pressure on the pricing.
Conversely in the rutiles in the higher end ores I would imagine those pricing will probably stay pretty constant if not have upward pressure on some of those ores.
So I don't foresee as much volatility in our ore prices over the next 2 years as we've seen in the last few years.
Bob when you think about sort of the progression of our utilization rates and I'm sure they would sort of reflect the rest of the industry we really began the 2012 calendar year operating in the high 80% range.
And then really in the second half of the year that drops in mid-to-low 70% utilization rates.
The first half of 2013 we ramped up to mid-80% range.
And I think in the third quarter of 2013 I'd say our utilization rates are in the high 80s between 85% and 90%.
So you can see the progression of inventory destocking as Peter mentioned earlier.
We actually brought our inventory down so far that we missed some sales in the third quarter with roughly 42 days of inventory.
So that's good news and bad news right? We have pretty good inventory situation.
We just need to ramp up our plants a little harder.
Research Division</strong> And just to qualify -- or clarify did you suggest in the fourth quarter there was a year-on-year MTBE margin compression hit of around $20 million? Is that what I heard? From what we're seeing today Bob I think that's spot on.
We may have missed one of your questions there Bob.
Was there one we didn't get to? Research Division</strong> I think that was only just asking what you might expect on the price cost spread as you go through '14 on TiO2.
In other words there seem to be plenty of price initiatives.
I think you answered that your cost side will be pretty static so maybe you did answer it.
I think that our cost -- we would expect our cost to be pretty stagnant.
We'd expect our operating price could be tightening.
And we are very aggressively -- we publicly have announced an October to January price increase.
And we're going to very aggressively pursue these increases.
I would certainly expect by the end of next year that the market should be tight enough that we would be able to get some price increases throughout the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin McCarthy of Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Peter could you comment on the outlook for epoxy resins? You mentioned you're rationalizing capacity in Spain and India I think it was.
One of your competitors looks like they're exploring strategic options for the business.
How do you see the next year or 2 unfolding in terms of utilization rates? And when do we start to turn the corner on volumes? Yes.
I guess I'm not overly optimistic on the DLR [ph] the commodity bulk end of the business.
I would've hoped it would've turned around long before now because we're just seeing so much capacity to market.
That's why we're taking steps to rationalize our earning capacity.
We have been successful over this past year of shutting capacity down in Spain and in India.
And we continue to look at the competitiveness of our other capacity that we operate internally.
So we would want to be in a position when we're supplying ourselves or that we're able to purchase.
And in some cases in Europe I believe that our economics are such that we're able to manufacture our own epoxy raw materials to be able to supply our own needs.
And in Asia we actually can produce -- we believe we can actually buy -- excuse me epoxy is cheaper than we can produce.
And in North America we'd want to see that evaluation right now.
I think longer-term our focus is better spent to focus not on the upstream side of the epoxies but downstream in the formulation the systems looking at the fast-growing and the growth that we see in the epoxy business.
So when we talk about the epoxy business I know that that's a phrase that's thrown around a lot in our industry.
We've got some competitors that talk to their epoxy business and so forth.
We're actually getting out as much of the commodity side as we can and moving our focus and moving our cost structure and our alignment to further downstream applications where we continue to see significant growth and opportunity for margin expansion.
Kevin the capacity we've shut down represents about 1/3 of our total basic liquid epoxy resin globally.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then shifting gears to Performance Products.
Can you give us a sense of how the incremental restructuring benefits will flow through over the next several quarters? I think you mentioned $20 million of EBITDA? What does the cadence there look like? And what are the associated cash costs? Well because we're either divesting or shutting down 2 facilities and parts of 2 others you're really sort of get the benefit all in one shot.
So we think that run rate we'll enjoy at the end of 2014.
Research Division</strong> And then final question for Kimo if I may.
What is your expected cash contribution to the pension plan looking ahead to 2014? Sure.
We will -- that's just about what we did last year and this year.
It's pretty consistent about $150 million of cash.
That is pretty consistent over those 3 years roughly $150 million.
That includes that piece of expense and over and above expense and cash cost day [ph].
Your next question comes from the line of Hassan Ahmed of Alembic Global Advisors.
Peter you guys have identified a series of growth projects kicking in in 2014.
And then on top of that obviously there should be some accretion from -- on the back of a variety of cost-cutting measures.
My question was more around raw material prices.
Obviously butane prices have come down a fair bit as have benzene.
How should we be thinking about sort of potential tailwinds from there as we look towards 2014? Yes I think that you make a good point here.
I think that when we look at -- it's a growth prospect kind of where we're going.
Hassan I think that if you look at Slide #10 we showed -- as you pointed out $190 million in the next few years relative short period of time.
$190 million of annual life EBITDA is coming from this.
This is in addition to the $140 million of further internal cost cutting that we have -- it should be realized by the end of [ph] next year.
And that's in addition to what we believe will be in excess of $130 million dollars of what we will be able to get out from the Rockwood acquisition.
That's at over $450 million of improvement in EBITDA that I would say fall into the category of self help and things that we can control.
And I don't know if we put as much emphasis on that as we should.
I think if anything comes from this call it would be in a sluggish global economy.
We see real tremendous opportunity.
On the other hand the impact at raw material prices I can't look into 2 or 3 buckets if you will of raw material.
Our biggest block of raw materials that we buy are natural-gas-related products.
That would be methane ethane butane and the corollary natural gas that goes with that that we've earned in our cogeneration facilities our ethylene production and so forth.
So as we look at that I think that when we look at the "North American shale gas advantage " I believe that that's probably going to remain somewhere between $3 and $4 for MMBtu range for the foreseeable future.
As we look at the other kind of bucket of I would say heavier raw materials that would be benzene prices and so forth I'm not sure that I -- that that's going to be volatile.
But I don't see that price really changing a great deal outside of the bandwidth spent over the last 2 years or so.
And then the third bucket I will see [ph] of the major materials that we're purchasing would be the pigments that we saw -- that we've seen over the last couple of years.
I just said I believe that given the 75% of our Pigment acquisitions -- excuse me our ore acquisitions are ilmenite or sulfate slag I believe that those prices are going to be relatively stable over the course of the next 2 to 3 years.
So I believe that we have a fairly stable raw material environment going forward.
Now I say that just as something may happen in the Middle East or something obviously but I mean as far as the macroeconomic issues I think that we've got an excellent opportunity to take advantage of relatively stable U.S.
GAAP prices stable ore prices and relatively stable heavier liquid prices which make up the vast majority of our raw materials.
And where we take advantage of these $450 million of self-help expansion projects and synergy projects that we have coming on over the next 18 months or so.
So I hope that answers your question there.
It does indeed.
And just to follow up on the polyurethane side of things Peter.
Nice sequential tickup in EBITDA margins the 16.5%.
Now you obviously talked about MDI tightening through the course of 2014.
I mean could you just give us some sort of sense of how much more upside there possibly could be in polyurethanes EBITDA margins or MDI EBITDA margins in sort of 90-plus percent operating rate environment? Well I'm always reluctant to try to call it a peak or a valley.
So it's not like I would say that if we go back to kind of the last peak sort of economics that we saw the last margins that we saw in urethane I think that we were earning about $700 million-ish dollars kind of an annualized sort of a number.
And if I take that margin then I put it over the $740 million in 2005.
And if I look at that same margin that 22% EBITDA margin and over the volumes we have today that's the number that would be exceeding $1 billion just in urethane.
So I see substantial upside from where we are today.
Now are we going to hit that and so forth? I'd sure like to see it hit that but what's going to be more important I think as we look at over the next 5 years what's really going to be important is creating as much value on a per pound basis moving our MDI further downstream and making our MDI business a business is truly a core business.
We've got to take some of the volatility out of it that we've seen the last couple of years.
I think the best way to do that is just further move downstream move into more specialty intermediate products and embedded applications where we're going to see higher margins less volatility.
And frankly less competition.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Ritzenthaler of Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> We talked quite a bit last quarter about MDI markets in China maybe looking a little softer.
I know you had touched on this on an earlier question but it sounds like your view on the fundamentals in China for MDI have changed.
Could you elaborate on that a little bit? And perhaps which end markets have changed your outlook the most? Well when we look at Asia.
I'll just -- I'll take a shot at this.
We continue to see a really strong automotive market.
And of course the insulation side of growth we're seeing continued strong markets there.
So Asia it didn't ever get soft but there was a pause there last quarter where we looked at it and wondered if we were going to see a general slowdown.
But as we came off the end of the quarter it felt very strong.
So we've seen in the Asian market about a 6% year-over-year increase.
I would just note that last year at this time we had exceptionally strong MDI markets in Asia one of our largest competitors there have some manufacturing problems and their plant was out.
We were selling everything we could a year ago that we could get our hands on everything that we could resell everything we could move in from the U.S.
A year ago markets were extremely tight in Asia.
And so growing at 6% over that while [ph] a year ago I think that that was unusually strong market a year ago.
And so while 6% may not be the $0.09 or $0.10 growth I think compared to where we were last year I am more bullish today of Asian particularly Chinese MDI demand than I would have been a quarter ago.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And then we don't spend a lot of time discussing Textile Effects but volume growth has been pretty tremendous even on difficult comparables.
And now this quarter you're able to follow with a little pricing.
Do you see that top line growth sort of leveling off in '14? Or is there still more runway? And I guess as a follow-up to that could you discuss how that segment -- how you see that segment fitting into the broader portfolio longer term? Well I see the segments sitting into the broader portfolio.
And when we look at the return on assets which is very important to us this [indiscernible] should be a business as a 15% mid-teens sort of return on assets and a 10% sort of EBITDA.
Given when we bought the business and how much cash we have tied up in the business yes that's going to be a significant value creator.
I believe that by the time we're done with our cost-cutting I believe that the business going forward that again [ph] room for improvement.
We have excess capacity.
We've moved and expanded and made more efficient our production facilities in Thailand in India in Mexico.
And as we look at our business going forward with many of our competitors having gone through recent sales or through a sales process or through some sort of -- something that we get confidence -- or our customers less in full confidence in the business we've actually been able to take market share and increase margins at the same time.
I think that we are one of the few that are investing in real substantive R&amp;D when we talk about these mills and Bangladesh and some of the environmental and ecological problem safety issues and so forth in the textile industry.
Our products provide a great deal of safety they provide new formulations.
And I think that we're going to continue to see a stronger than GDP and stronger than textile growth in our Textile Effects division.
And when I read that paragraph this morning in the script about making $8 million I almost paused and wanted to read it again.
But I thought it'd be a bit cheesy because when we're talking a year or 2 this business was moving in a run rate of $70 million not too long ago.
And I think that we're still ways away from being done with our restructuring.
I see upside in the business.
I see upside with new products.
And I think that that business can and will become a real contributor to creating value into company.
I would just note here Kimo I think at the beginning of this year you said we will be profitable this year in Textile Effects so I think you said "I'll stake my job on that." Probably right maybe.
Next question comes from the line of Laurence Alexander.
Research Division</strong> This is Rob Walker on for Laurence.
Thanks for the growth project slides that's very helpful.
Should we read into the fact that your MDI expansion in China is not on the list? No.
I think as we want to make sure that we have full approval from the Chinese authorities.
And I have all the respect for that process.
And one thing that probably wouldn't endear us all that much to the Chinese authorities would be for us to try to presume -- try to assume that we know what they're going to be doing here so we'll wait for them to give us the green light.
We believe that we're making good progress here.
And that's a facility that we desperately need.
And I talked to them today and they said we'll be getting us [ph].
So Robert if you're modeling that one that's an investment of about $100 million in roughly $750 million -- $800 million facility.
And it's not [indiscernible] financing.
But our commitment our investment cash investment over 2.5 years 3 years will be roughly $100 million.
And it's a project that would be done sometime near the 2017 so it's aways out there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess on the bridge as you think about for Performance Products you had the outage this year.
You're seeing improvement in the amines market you're restructuring surfactants.
I guess can help us think about where profits or margins could get to next year? Well we haven't been giving guidance on the division-by-division basis.
I think that if we look at next year Malaysia is very strong.
I'm not very sure how much stronger that will go.
But I think that it's well positioned to be able to continue to give material benefit to the division.
I think that next year -- by the end of next year we will see it one way or the other through a closure or divestiture we'll see improvements in our European surfactants business.
And I believe that again given the increase in demand and the increase in capacity utilizations that are amines division will continue to improve throughout next year.
So all of that taken together I think that 2014 would be a good year for our Performance Products division.
There's no reason to think about this business other than whatever we're going to do this year plus roughly $50 million that we missed out on the turnaround of the first quarter.
The businesses will continue to operate as they have in 2013 plus we get the benefit of not having that turn around.
Yes good point.
Your next question comes from the line of Frank Mitsch of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Kimo so you stake your job on Textile Effects being positive in 2013? Let's not jump to conclusions.
We've got 4 quarters yet here.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes no exactly.
In the fourth quarter call we'll know what happens.
LLC Research Division</strong> Please tell me that October trends in Textiles has been very strong.
I just wanted to double back on the production issues in the TiO2 side of the equation.
Is that behind us? And is the expectation that -- is that related to the France startup? And is the expectation here that given the guise [ph] -- given that you're at low inventory levels you're going to be ramping up production fairly significantly here in Q4? Well it's really Frank across the board.
These plans -- and this really leads to the sort of destocking cycles.
They're slow to ramp up.
When you're running -- what I say generally in 2012 we were in the 70% utilization rates so now we're trying to run this plant at close to 90% and it's hard to bring them all up.
And likewise sometimes it's not easy to bring it down and slow them down.
And that lends itself to increased inventories as well but it's across the board.
It's not specific to the Calais France plant.
Frank while we're talking about that I just want to [indiscernible] in my script I talked about the sales have improved 20% compared to the prior year.
Have we been operating -- we talked about the EBITDA impact of the slower operations have we been operating at capacity where we should've been operating our sales would've increased by about 25% instead of 20%.
I think it's probably more in line with some of the numbers that have been plastered about [ph] from what was reported [ph].
So and then we also -- I would just note that if we look at our inventory levels that we've made mentioned to this year we're at 45.
Last year at this time we were at 85 days.
The industry was at 94 days last year when we're at 65.
So certainly we look at the macroeconomic conditions it feels like it's heading in the right direction here.
LLC Research Division</strong> And I just wanted to follow up.
I wasn't sure I understood exactly the $140 million restructuring program that you have what percent of that is incremental in '13 and what percent is incremental in '14? And if you could just recap the biggest buckets that's coming from that would be very helpful.
Sure.
So we've announced roughly $240 million in annual benefit in these restructuring programs in polyurethanes Performance Products Advanced Materials and Textile Effects.
I think we've mentioned that the Performance Products benefits has really pushed that all the way to -- end of 2014 as we considered those 2 specific plans.
By the end of the year we will enjoy the benefit of $130 million run rate in the fourth quarter.
That's roughly 55% of the $240 million benefit.
Then by the end of 2014 there will be nearly 100% of benefit.
Just a little bit of instruction in 2015.
But again these are run rate numbers and so again by the end of 2013 we'll be at $130 million run rate and by the end of 2014 we'll be at just about $240 million run rate.
And I think Frank if you look at that bridge in Slide 8 it's a pretty helpful slide with year-over-year -- in our quarterly kind of performance.
Yes we're pretty much on track to what Kimo has just said.
It's really falling to the bottom line here.
Your final question comes from the line of Ivan Marcuse of KeyBanc Capital.
Research Division</strong> I just have a couple of quick ones.
On the Oxid contribution is $15 million to $20 million -- is that assuming synergies or restructurings? Or is that sort of the run rate that the business has been running at? That's the run rate where we have the first months of financial performance so strong contributor right out of the gates.
Research Division</strong> And then on Advanced Materials business once restructuring is done and you've closed and exited -- or if you wanted to go how much of the business would you -- will you gauge will be linked directly or indirectly to aerospace and sort of the higher value industrial markets? It would probably be overall volumes of 10%.
And that probably will be closer to 20% 25% of our EBITDA business.
It's actually aerospace.
2 key [ph] aerospace.
Of course the electrical insulation and transmission markets there are some specialty coating markets.
There's several other really high-valued pieces to that but at the Aerospace specifically roughly 10%.
I would just say that as we look at Advanced Materials the first phases of that business improvement is getting your costs straight.
The second phase is really around getting your pricing your products and marketing and sales straight.
And I tell you when we're done with the cost side I think I foresee it over the course of the next year or so a real opportunity to continue to push further downstream looking at new products enter the pipeline coming to market and so forth.
So I don't want there to be a perception that where you cut costs and [indiscernible] materials mean you kind of plateau and that's as good as it gets.
That business I think has more products and more opportunities a product pipeline going out 2 or 3 years down the road.
So as we look at that business going forward I would certainly look at it from more than just what you get from cutting costs.
Research Division</strong> And then my last question and I apologize if you already answered this I jumped on late.
But if you look at cash flow on Slide 10 how much have you -- on the cash outlay that you're -- for these projects how much has been spent this year? And how much would you project that that will be spent in 2014? I'm sorry Ivan.
One more time? Research Division</strong> On the capital project that you laid out on Slide 10 how much of those -- of the capital outlay has been spent to date? And how much would you expect that sort of the CapEx would be for 2014 on these projects? Yes of the roughly $500 million we will have spent through the end of 2013 roughly $100 million of it.
The rest is to come into '14 '15.
Okay.
Thank you Ivan and thank you everyone for joining us on the call today.
Thank you for joining today's conference ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a very good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q1 2014 Huntsman Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Kim and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Kurt Ogden Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Kim and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Huntsman's First Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
Joining us on the call today are Jon Huntsman our Founder and Executive Chairman; Peter Huntsman President and CEO; and Kimo Esplin Executive Vice President and CFO.
This morning before the market opened we released our earnings for the first quarter 2014 via press release and posted it on our website huntsman.com.
We also posted a set of slides on our website which we intend to use on the call this morning in the discussion of our results.
During this call we may make statements about our projections or expectations for the future.
All such statements are forward-looking statements and while they reflect our current expectations they involve risks and uncertainties and are not guarantees of future performance.
You should review our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for more information regarding the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these projections or expectations.
We do not plan on publicly updating or revising any forward-looking statements during the quarter.
In addition we will also refer to non-GAAP financial measures such as EBITDA adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income or loss.
You can find the reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in our earnings release which has been posted on our website at huntsman.com.
Let's turn to some highlights on Slide #2.
In our earnings release this morning we reported first quarter 2014 revenue of $2 755 000 000 adjusted EBITDA of $329 million and adjusted earnings per share of $0.43 per diluted share.
I will now turn the call over to Peter Huntsman our President and CEO.
Thank you Kurt.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for taking the time to join us.
Let's turn to Slide #3.
Adjusted EBITDA for our Polyurethanes division in the first quarter 2014 was $167 million.
Compared to the prior year period we saw favorable earnings growth from our MDI urethanes business of $6 million which was more than offset by lower earnings from PO/MTBE.
Our MDI urethanes first quarter EBITDA has exceeded the previous year's first quarter in each of the past 5 years.
Demand for our MDI remains strong.
Global sales volumes grew 6% compared to the prior year.
Notably half of the volume's growth came from the Asia Pacific region where our differentiated automotive adhesive coatings elastomers and furniture businesses all grew at strong double-digit rates.
Solid demand in the Americas and European region was led by 14% growth in composite wood products as we continue to substitute for other materials while benefiting from improved housing conditions.
Despite some moderation from the record-high benzene prices we saw in the first quarter raw materials overall remained high.
We successfully raised our MDI urethanes selling price late in the quarter and were able to offset some of the increase in raw materials.
We expect to improve margins in the second quarter as the full impact of our announced price increases take effect.
We combined propylene oxide-based polyols with MDI to create specific polyurethane system solutions for our customers.
In the U.S.
we manufacture our own propylene oxide.
MTBE is a coproduct of our manufacturing process.
PO/MTBE earnings in the first quarter decreased $17 million compared to the prior year due to lower MTBE selling prices as a result of a slightly weaker gasoline market than the prior year's first quarter.
Let's turn to Slide #4.
In the first quarter our Performance Products division earned $118 million of adjusted EBITDA an increase of $64 million compared to the prior year period of $54 million which was impacted approximately $55 million by planned maintenance.
During our fourth quarter earnings call Q&amp;A I indicated that maintenance in the first quarter of this year may reduce our EBITDA by $8 million to $9 million.
Our operations team successfully completed the maintenance sooner than planned and some will be carried over into the second quarter.
The impact on the first quarter was negligible.
However we expect planned maintenance projects in the second quarter to decrease our EBITDA by approximately $15 million in the second quarter.
We continue to see strong demand for our amines.
Noticeably we have seen earnings growth for ethyleneamines used in oilfield applications.
Maleic anhydride was particularly strong as well in the quarter.
A few weeks ago we announced an agreement with Wilmar whereby they agreed to buy our European commodity surfactants business.
Coupled with the closure of our Patrica Italy commodity surfactants facility we believe these actions will improve our annual EBITDA by approximately $20 million beginning in 2015.
Let's turn to Slide #5.
Adjusted EBITDA in the first quarter in our Advanced Materials division was $46 million an improvement of $19 million compared to the prior year of $27 million.
We've seen a tremendous improvement in this business as a result of our recent restructuring efforts.
We are on schedule and on target to deliver the full $70 million of annual EBITDA restructuring benefit by the middle of this year.
In addition we -- in addition to taking action on our fixed costs we have preferentially walked away from certain low-margin business which led to a 16% decrease in sales volume compared to the prior year.
We have realigned our top line to focus on higher-value component and formulations such as the aerospace transportation and industrial markets the benefit of which are reflected in the 6% increase in average selling price and the 6% improvement in sales mix compared to the prior year.
In the first quarter this year demand for our products serving the aerospace market grew at 9% compared to the prior year.
This important end market comprised approximately 1/3 of our earnings in the quarter.
Turning to Slide #6.
Our Textile Effects division reported adjusted EBITDA of $16 million in the first quarter an improvement of $19 million compared to the prior year loss of $3 million.
This division has successfully completed the realignment of its business and manufacturing footprint from Europe to Asia.
We continue to see sales growth significantly above GDP through increased market share.
This increased demand for our products is being pulled through by improving consumer confidence and the demand for more sustainable products at U.S.
and European brands and retailers.
This has allowed us to successfully increase our selling price and expand margins in the first quarter.
Offering the most environmentally and economically sustainable textile chemicals and dyes within the industry allows us to win business on tighter technical specifications not just on price.
Let's turn to Slide #7.
Our Pigments division earned $26 million of adjusted EBITDA in the first quarter 2014 compared to $9 million in the previous year an improvement of $17 million.
Much of the improvement was the result of stronger production volumes and increased fixed cost absorption.
Our global sales volumes were essentially unchanged compared to the prior year.
Strong volume growth in Europe which is our largest region was offset by lower sales volumes in other parts of the world where we sacrificed some sales volumes in order to protect our selling price.
Although our average selling price decreased compared to the prior year it was essentially flat compared to the fourth quarter.
We saw a notable demand strength in Europe where we have 45% of our revenue.
We are encouraged by the general trends within the industry and believe that warming weather in North America will help boost demand in this year's paint season which begins in earnest in April although the second quarter seasonal increase in demand may be muted by maintenance currently taking place at one of our facilities.
As a result we expect the second quarter EBITDA to be flat with the prior year comparable quarter.
We remain actively engaged with the European Union in their antitrust review of our proposed acquisition of Rockwood's Performance Additives and Titanium Dioxide businesses.
Before sharing some concluding thoughts I'd like to turn a few minutes over to Kimo Esplin our Chief Financial Officer.
Thanks.
Let's turn to Slide 8.
As Peter has already outlined in the first quarter of 2014 compared to the prior year our adjusted EBITDA increased 50% to $329 million from $220 million.
Much of the improvement was a result of the maintenance that took place at our Port Neches Texas site last year which impacted the EBITDA by approximately $55 million.
In addition the benefits from our self-help restructuring accounted for approximately $53 million in lower SG&amp;A and indirect costs.
Compared to the prior quarter our EBITDA improved $16 million.
Increased raw material costs more than outpaced our ability to raise selling prices during the quarter resulting in a squeeze on margins of approximately $25 million.
Fortunately the benefits of improved sales volumes lower SG&amp;A and indirect costs and other benefits more than offset lower margins.
We expect our restructuring efforts to contribute an additional approximately $45 million of future EBITDA.
Turning to Slide 9.
Our year-over-year consolidated sales revenue for the first quarter increased 2%.
This was primarily due to an improvement in sales volumes of 8% partially offset by a decrease in average selling prices of 2% and sales mix effect of 4%.
The increase in volume was affected by our first quarter 2013 maintenance in Performance Products.
Regionally our largest category North America which makes up 31% of total revenue increased 4%.
Our second largest region Europe increased 5% whereas Asia Pacific sales revenue increased 5%.
This was partially offset by a 9% decrease in our Rest of World's category which is comprised of Latin America the Middle East and Africa.
Our Polyurethanes business is our largest and made up 43% of our total revenue in the first quarter and grew at 2%.
However the MDI urethanes segment revenue increased 4% and more than offset lower PO/MTBE segment prices.
Textile Effects revenues increased the most at 19% as a result of increased selling prices and improved sales volume.
Performance Products revenue benefited from the first quarter 2013 maintenance.
However we saw significant revenue growth in our important amines and maleic anhydride products.
In Advanced Materials we preferentially walked away from certain low-margin businesses resulting in a 5% decrease in sales revenue and Pigments revenues decreased 4% as a result of lower industry selling prices for TiO2.
Our total sales revenue increased 2% in the first quarter this year compared to last quarter and are encouraged by improvements in sequential selling prices and as well as overall sales mix.
Sales revenues increased in all our divisions with the exception of Polyurethanes where volumes were seasonally low.
Let's turn to Slide 10.
At the end of the quarter we had approximately $900 million of cash and unused borrowing capacity.
During the quarter we spent $107 million on capital expenditures.
We expect to spend approximately $500 million on capital expenditures in 2014 excluding any amounts associated with the planned acquisition of the Performance Additives and Titanium Dioxide businesses of Rockwood.
We are accelerating depreciation expense this year by $17 million related to the closure of our commodity surfactants facility in Patrica Italy and the sale of our ethoxylation facility in Lavera France.
The accelerated depreciation charge in the first quarter was $6 million which will continue each quarter at slightly lower levels through the remainder of the year.
Our adjusted effective income tax rate for the first quarter 2014 was 32%.
We expect our 2014 adjusted effective tax rate to be approximately 35% excluding the impact of the acquisition of the Performance Additives and Titanium Dioxide businesses of Rockwood.
We expect our long-term adjusted effective tax rate to be approximately 30%.
Peter? Thank you Kimo.
This past month we held an investor day event where our senior leadership team presented our vision for each division.
We also outlined our expectations for the next 2 to 3 years.
I invite you to review the materials from this event on our website at huntsman.com.
We set out an objective to reach $2 billion of adjusted EBITDA over the next 2 to 3 years.
In order for this to happen we outlined certain acquisitions capital projects and business improvements that will take place.
As we report our first quarter results we continue to see improvements in our Advanced Materials and Textile Effects business thanks in large part to self-help initiatives.
These 2 divisions earned nearly $40 million of adjusted EBITDA this past quarter over the previous year's result.
We see the benefits of strong growth and past investments in our MDI urethanes amines and maleic product lines where our adjusted EBITDA increased by $15 million over the previous year.
As we told you last year when we announced our intention to purchase Rockwood's Performance Additives and Titanium Dioxide businesses we continue to expect improvement in our Pigments business during the second half of this year.
While I'm frustrated at the pace of the approval process I firmly believe that this deal will get done.
We are committed to closing this transaction and feel it is a better deal today than we did 6 months ago.
Our future growth is not dependent on a single product or geography.
As I stated in our last call I believe that all of our divisions will improve this year over the previous year.
In short we've outlined bold and record-achieving objectives for this company over the next few years.
I believe the results we have reported in the first quarter are right where we need to be to reach these objectives.
With that I'll turn the time over to Kurt and we'll take in questions.
Thanks Peter.
Kim will you go ahead and explain the procedure for questions and answers and then open the lines? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Robert Koort from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Peter I wonder if you can talk in Performance Products the impact that getting out of that commodity surfactants business might have on your margin structure for the segment? Well we believe that the earnings of the business will improve by about $20 million EBITDA starting in the first of 2015 as we will have closed on the sale of one of the sites the closure of another site and in cutbacks in some of our other sites.
While the business -- the European surfactants business is about $450 million in sales we will be reducing the top line by about $140 million of sales and taking that margin from a sub-5% margin to something above 10%.
I think it's like 12% EBITDA margin from a 3% EBITDA margin.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And in the Advanced Materials business obviously your aerospace margins are pretty spectacular.
Can you talk a little bit about what the cadence of the growth rate for here as it seems like maybe on the Boeing side of things you're reaching a more of a steady-state growth period whereas Airbus is still accelerating? Can you sort of net it out and what you see over the next couple years? I know at your investor day you gave a 2018 target that was pretty impressive but what's in the interim between here and 2018? What's the cadence? I think it's going to be growing at a very strong single digit pushing 10% sort of a growth rate.
We've been averaging 12% and we might slow -- see that slow just a little bit with the build rate on the 787 project.
But we do have the 350 Airbus which is part of -- which I believe we have all of the business going into the 350 Airbus.
It actually has more of our products per plane than the 787 and then looking out over the next couple of years beyond that the next year or 2 beyond that the 737 Max and the 777-x.
While the 737 will only have about 5 tons of Huntsman product per plane the number of those estimated to be built in 2017 is pushing 550 575 units which is about 4x the amount.
So I -- as I look at each one of these projects we have a very strong market share in this segment.
And I see that continue really growing at that 10% kind of growth rate certainly for the next 3 to 4 years here.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin McCarthy from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Peter I'm not sure how much you're at liberty to discuss as it relates to the pending deal with Rockwood but you did express some confidence that the deal would get done.
Just wondering if there's anything incremental or any changes in your recent discussions that would engender that confidence and also with regard to timing when you might expect to ramp it up relative to the deadline of July 22.
Well I think it will be a third quarter event and I would be reluctant to get into any details of the discussions that we've had with the E.U.
And I would only say that we continue to make progress there and I continue to be very confident that we will be closing this in the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then on the Pigments earnings pattern I was just wondering if you could comment a little bit on the sequential dip in EBITDA.
It looked like your volumes were up 10% sequentially and price minus 1% not a terribly big move there.
So wondering if you could comment on why the sequential drop.
I think that -- and most of that was due to mix and a little bit in pricing but the volumes were about the same as a year ago.
As we look going forward in that business we are out aggressively pushing price as much as we can and I feel quite confident that in the second half of this year that we will be successful in getting some price traction.
Research Division</strong> And last one if I may on Advanced Materials.
Really excellent result there.
Just wondering if I look at the pattern there how much might have -- might restructuring have contributed relative to -- sounds like you walked away from some lower-margin business presumably on base LER.
Just any color on the strength there would help.
Well I think that we're seeing the benefit.
The overall segment really is not doing much better than it was a year ago.
I mean when I look at -- it's a basic liquid resin and kind of the commodified end to that business it has too much capacity and the pricing hasn't had traction probably for years literally on the commodity side.
And part of the restructuring wasn't just getting the cost right but longer term making sure that we're in the right product segments where we're going to see both growth and we're going to see growth in earnings.
And I think the first quarter of this year was one of the -- actually in the fourth quarter of last year I think that we saw strong improvement over the previous year.
In first quarter this year we see that same reflection.
So as I look in that division going forward I think that we're getting the costs right and I think that we're getting the product mix right.
I'll just add when you think about the 3 segments there's base there's formulated systems and specialty components.
Base sales were down as much as 50% so again reflecting the shutdown of 2 facilities.
But when you look at formulated systems from a volume standpoint up 11% year-over-year really driven as we've mentioned by aerospace.
But we have strong transportation and industrial segment and wind actually showed some strength in the quarter.
So while we don't have a huge wind business we're starting to see some of that wind business come back in the formulated area.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Ritzenthaler from Piper and Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Yes a question about the price stickiness of MDI.
Peter I'm taking from your prepared comments that raw material headwinds might persist somewhat in 2Q.
Is that fair just in terms of a timing standpoint? Yes I think so.
When we look at raw materials in Polyurethanes this is mostly an American U.S.
phenomenon that we have.
And so from the fourth quarter through the first quarter and kind of moving to the second quarter we've seen prices moving up.
We've seen them come down a little bit on benzene.
They're still kind of bouncing around that record level.
We've seen about a 15% increase in our raw material costs during that time period.
Between price increases that were initiated in the first quarter and will be further pushed in the second quarter we believe that certainly by the end of the second quarter unless there's a massive increase to take place we believe that we'll offset all of that 15% and then a little bit more.
We think that we'll also see margin expansion in Europe and Asia.
We haven't seen the -- necessarily the same amount of price increase in those areas.
We have seen some increase but not nearly as much as in North America where we're pushing for price increases in -- during the first and second quarter.
And given the successes we've had thus far I would expect margins to expand throughout the second quarter moving into the third quarter as well.
And maybe I'll just comment on PO.
The question was broadly Polyurethane pricing.
While the comparison year-over-year in PO/MTBE was down relative to price on the MTBE side we think the second quarter will be flat with last year's second quarter relative to the value of MTBE and propylene oxide.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's really helpful.
Second question is a follow-up on the sale of surfactant assets to Wilmar.
I was wondering if you could elaborate a bit on the supply agreement side of that deal and its strategic importance to Huntsman in the overall framework of how that came together.
And then maybe perhaps update us on the self-help line of projects specifically in Europeans surfactants as we progress through '14.
Well I think that when you look at the self-help on the European surfactants piece I think that we pretty much have outlined when we just talked about the improvement that we're going to see in that business.
That's not due to any one of them.
It's due to a combination of a site closure of selling off capacity to Wilmar and looking at reducing some commodity surfactants at other sites.
So it's kind of in 3 buckets there.
Whereas as Kimo said we'll see a reduction of about $100 million in sales and an improvement of about $20 million of cost benefit.
The relationship with Wilmar is kind of interwoven within those agreements.
In some of our facilities they'll be taking back some production.
Some of the facilities will be shut down and the volumes will be moved to other plants.
And the third facility the Lavera plant will outright be sold to Wilmar.
So that certainly is going to be an expanding relationship that we have with Wilmar and I think that it makes a lot more sense for them to be in these certain surfactant grades than us given their raw material integration.
Your next question comes from the line of Laurence Alexander from Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Two questions on MDI.
Can you give a little bit more detail on MDI price trends like why they haven't improved year-over-year in Q1 and what you think will happen this summer? But also can you give a little bit more detail on the MDI profit bridge into Q2 for Polyurethanes either year-over-year or quarter-over-quarter just to give a sense for what's going on in the industry? Well we're in the process right now of moving prices up in the second quarter and a lot of those are going to be effective June 1.
So I'm a bit reluctant to give any guidance in the second quarter on MDI given the fact that we're negotiating those price increases as we speak right now.
I think that the significant item that should be noted and I'll see if Kimo has anything to add to this but when we think about the first quarter of this year versus first quarter last year we will have seen very strong double-digit raw material cost increases during that time period yet we've also been able to expand margin during that time period.
So we've seen prices go up to not only offset record-high raw material increases but we've also seen it expand margins as well.
No that's exactly what I was going to say.
I mean we saw prices increase in the first quarter.
It was towards the end of the quarter and we will continue to see those move up through the second quarter where you see a second quarter results that will have offset all those raw material costs.
And we will see the benefit of the growth which we continue to see at sort of 6% to 8% per year and we expect that to continue.
So we are reaching great utilization levels in our 3 facilities around the world and the incremental economics of growth will fall to the bottom line very quickly.
Research Division</strong> And what are your utilization rates? We think in 2014 our plants will be in the high 90% utilization rate levels and that's why we've announced certain debottlenecks that will need to be effective in 2015 to be able to facilitate further growth.
Your next question comes from the line of Ivan Marcuse from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Real quick on your direct costs for the quarter in Polyurethanes.
What was the impact of raw materials? Well as we look from the fourth quarter to the first quarter and I'd say I'd use that just because the first quarter we saw benzene peak at a record high.
And since then it's come down a little bit but not a great deal was a 15% increase in our raw material costs.
Yes I think...
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Yes? Excuse me I was just going to say in dollar terms it was as much $20 million I think in the quarter of headwind.
And I think that was consistent with what we outlined on our last call and in the investor day presentation that we expected that would be the headwind roughly.
Research Division</strong> Do you expect the same degree going to the second quarter? I think there might be a little bit of a decrease but not much.
I'm not seeing a collapse taking place in benzene pricing which is already -- they're already out discussing May nominations and so forth.
So we're kind of 2/3 the way done with the quarter and haven't seen a great deal of movement.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just looking at cash flows real quick the restructuring costs how much were then in the first quarter with sort of your view of cash restructuring costs going after 2014? And I guess the same question would be in regards to the pension.
Sure.
In the first quarter our cash restructuring payments were $25 million and the pension payments in excess of the expense in the P&amp;L for adjusted EBITDA excuse me was about the same amount $25 million.
In both of those categories in restructuring obviously once we're done with this round of restructuring that will fall significantly.
For the full year cash payments on restructuring will be about $100 million and we would expect that to decrease significantly.
On the pension side we are close to 90% funded globally and we would expect that the pension funding requirements would come down also in 2015 significantly by as much as half.
Research Division</strong> And then real quick on the working capital that was a much bigger use on a year-over-year basis.
How do you -- where do you anticipate that sort of to unwind going out through the year? Or where do you think the most improvement could be coming from over the next couple of quarters in regard to just the working capital and the cash generation? Sure.
We always expect and plan for significant working capital build in the first and second quarters of the year.
That's our seasonal trend and then it cleans down in the third and the fourth quarters.
We've seen that for the last couple of years as you know.
First quarter working capital was higher than we originally had expected because of not inventories but receivables.
Our sales growth volumetrically of 8% lends itself to higher receivable levels.
Obviously that will turn into cash and that will benefit us in the next few months as that rolls.
But for the year we would expect working capital if our current crystal ball of raw materials holds through that we will be flat from a cash standpoint in terms of working capital.
And that would include improvements I think in all of our businesses on the inventory side in terms of days held inventory.
Your next question comes from the line of Hassan Ahmed from Alembic Global.
Peter apologies I joined the call a bit late so if you've already stated this apologies again.
But I was just trying to figure out where TiO2 inventory levels sit at Huntsman and you're always kind enough to give us the industry view as well.
So just wanted to figure out where those 2 numbers are at.
Yes.
As we look at our inventory days today the year end we reported about 66 days at the end of the year.
And today we're right around 62 days.
And I would remind you -- if you kind of look back the average for the first quarter is kind of in the high 50s low 60-ish.
So we're putting much in that envelope with 62 days.
Now I would estimate the industry -- and I'd say estimate because usually the industry publishes its data by now but it is not.
And I would estimate that the days inventory for the industry is probably right around 70 71 days of inventory.
Right.
So I mean I guess it's fair to assume one the things you talked about at least in the press release that was stated was sort of lower manufacturing costs.
So I would imagine you've jacked up your operating rates fairly significantly? Well yes we are seeing demand coming up but I don't think that that's too significant.
Well I think increased production relative to last year at this time where inventories were much higher than they are now.
That -- I don't think that's a good sequential comment.
That's a good year-over-year view.
Your next question comes from the line of P.J.
Juvekar from Citi.
This is Eric Petrie in for P.J.
Just on pigments do you still expect just to reach a normalized run rate of $200 million in the second half? The $200 million -- let's first talk about Rockwood.
We think $200 million is a good number for Rockwood and we think their first quarter will reflect that they're on pace with that.
Now the $200 million number I think we've updated since our -- the last time we talked.
We don't think we're going to be at $200 million.
We think that we will be at a $200 million run rate second half.
Okay.
And then could you provide an update on your TiO2 ore flexibility project in Italy and whether or not you'll see some of that benefit in second half? We are on track to bring that on.
I can't remember the exact date that's coming on but I think that's closer to the end of 2014 as opposed to midyear.
I would imagine that we'll see the benefit of some of those ores maybe falling in the fourth quarter.
But I'd question if that that would be material to the business until it's fully up and running.
Okay.
And then you mentioned expanding your capacity -- MDI capacity.
And just wondering how that timeline is progressing in the Netherlands and here in the States.
I think that we're -- what we presented in the investor day presentation that we would be having that completed by the fourth quarter of this year.
We believe that both of those projects both in the Netherlands and the U.S.
that we'll be done by the fourth quarter this year.
Your next question comes from the line of James Sheehan from SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering if you could elaborate on some of your comments on the amines and maleic hydride (sic) [maleic anhydride].
Results looks like they're pretty strong.
How are the end markets doing there and what are the some of the dynamics that are contributing to your results? Well I think that as we look at some of the end markets' growth in there the -- some of the strongest growth is happening in the oilfield services and the energy section.
So that's a whole bunch of different areas in there quite frankly.
It's not just frac-ing but it's also enhanced oil recovery and being able to extract sulfur and so forth from crude oil.
When we talk about the energy sector it's not just a single issue.
In the amines we're also seeing a strong improvement this time of year around the agricultural industry and the demand the pull-through on that.
And also we have a number of specialty surfactants that continue to do well for us.
And in the first quarter of this year we also benefited maleic by some coal producer issues and some of the disruptions that took place in some of the other producers during that time period in the first quarter.
But by and large maleic is strong just across the board.
We just -- the multiple end use from everything from food sweetener to unsaturated polyester resin going into the home market to the Spandex and the textile industry.
Those industries they're all not going through the roof.
We're just seeing good solid support and growth in all those end use applications.
It's really just a broad front that we're seeing these improvements.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Very good.
And also I just wanted to ask there is some chatter about Bayer being interested in selling its MaterialScience unit.
Is there any reason to think that some of their businesses particularly in downstream applications might be a good fit for Huntsman? I wouldn't be commenting on that.
It's -- we're always going to be looking for opportunities and so forth and rumors have been abounding for the last year on that one.
So I'm not really sure where they're going or what they've decided to do with that business.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay last question on the housing market in the U.S.
Looks like we've got some headwinds from mortgage rates.
Has that affected your outlook for the insulation market and other MDI businesses for the U.S.? Not really.
We're still going to see double-digit growth I believe throughout the year and the U.S.
is going to be a good market for us.
I would just remind you that our biggest growth -- our biggest factor in the growth rate there isn't just a housing recovery but it's also product substitution and replacement.
So when we talk about spray-on foam our biggest opportunity there is we are starting in such a low basis.
We've got years of opportunity to expand market share to displace that cheap pink stuff people sometimes put in their house.
And we've got -- we just -- I think for the next couple of years our biggest opportunity is going to be product substitution and replacement.
You've probably heard a lot of our competitors talk about weather-related issues.
When we think about weather and insulation demand in North America that affected North American demand by 2% to 3%.
So we may see even stronger insulation results in the U.S.
in the second third quarters as those bounce back.
Your next question comes from the line of John Roberts from UBS.
Research Division</strong> You talked earlier in Advanced Materials about different margins in the other segments and how high the aerospace-related margins are.
How separable are the aerospace margins from what happens in the other parts of Advanced Materials? That is can you proactively shrink the lower-margin parts without affecting the aerospace margins? I think that we pretty much have effectively done that.
And as you start shrinking too much you're going to see your fixed costs spread out over smaller pounds that are produced.
And so what we've done it's where we can close dedicated lines and facilities in BOR the basic liquid resins in the commodity products.
We've done that.
Yes we still might have a little ways to go in the vast majority that's been done already.
And so I don't see that is something that is going to significantly impact the business going forward.
I think the benefit of doing just that has been shown in the numbers in the fourth quarter and more completely in the first quarter this year.
Research Division</strong> Is there a way to think about how you can migrate resources from the lower-margin assets into aerospace over time? I mean should we expect you to be able to grow for a long period with no additional capital let's say into the business? Well we think -- and again if you go back and look at our investor day presentation on Advanced Materials we have the capacity pretty much in place today.
We're in the process of also putting that capacity in that will be able to satisfy our needs for probably the next 4 to 5 years in -- and for the aerospace demand increase that we're expecting.
Or say we're not expecting to add capacity every year.
We've oversized the production facilities and so forth.
And well I think that that -- we're probably looking out for the next 5 to 6 years.
Well I can say maybe even longer.
We spent $60 million -- we're in the process of spending $60 million in our McIntosh Alabama facility that is going to take us -- aerospace out as you said 7 8 years.
So -- and when you look at the resources to service aerospace and the resources to service the basic liquid resins it's really not either/or.
If we cut back on the commodity side of the business there's not a whole lot of overlap where you're able to take those pieces of machinery and utilize them in aerospace.
So the first part of your question you're talking about this overlap of redeploying resources.
We will be perhaps with some of the technicians and some of the operators and people but not a lot of overlap there kind of 2 completely separate manufacturing processes.
Your final question comes from the line of Frank Mitsch from Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> You also talked that demand will be strong in Asia but modest in Europe.
And one of the things that I guess has been a positive surprise has been the strength of MDI and insulation in Europe.
Can you comment a little bit more about what's going on in those 2 regions? Well I think that as we look at that I think it's going to be continuous build-up as to what we've got.
And again when we think about insulation on MDI we're starting at such a low percentage of the overall market.
There really is substantial room for years to come on expanding that footprint expanding our market share and as the result of the effectiveness and the efficiency of MDI insulation become more apparent.
And the means of distribution the people that are out moving the product that are out selling it and so forth it's just going to continue to we think be a very strong product for us.
So that's not only going to be in new commercial but also in residential housing where we're seeing a pickup not only in the U.S.
but also in Europe and Asia in that area.
And it's also going to be in the area of retrofitting existing buildings.
So in all of those 3 segments they're going to have their various strengths depending on which region.
The U.S.
is going to be a lot focused on residential housing and Europe is going to see more of retrofitting and probably commercial and Asia will have a good mix of all of them.
When you think about the first quarter we saw volume growth in Europe of 4%.
And when we say it will grow modestly it's not the 10% we saw in Asia Pacific in the same time period.
But when you look at the subsegments it's really in a lot of the value-added areas like our adhesives coatings and elastomers that are our higher-margin businesses.
And that grew in Europe 7% in the quarter year-over-year.
So we think it's going to be solid growth.
We think it's going to be profitable growth but it's not going to be the 10%.
And then in the America as well growth was only 3%.
Weather affected that by 2% and we walked away from some low-margin business there.
We think fundamentally the U.S.
is growing 7% 8%.
So we think 4% relative to GDP in Europe is not a bad growth rate for that segment.
LLC Research Division</strong> Terrific.
That's very helpful and Peter and Kimo I'd be remiss if I did not ask you the topic du jour.
Obviously you guys have an ethane cracker and we are seeing some announcements about MLP-ing ethylene assets.
What are your thoughts on the potential for Huntsman to get involved in that as well? well Frank I think it's safe to say that this is an area of interest to Huntsman.
We think that there potentially could be more than ethane but it's something that we want to approach very carefully.
But it is something -- as we look at our overall group of assets and as we evaluate how best to create shareholder value that is certainly something that is safe to say that we have looked and will continue to look at options.
Yes and this is Kurt.
I believe that we'll conclude our call today.
We want to thank everybody for your interest in Huntsman and we look forward to talking with you throughout the quarter.
Thanks again.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q2 2014 Huntsman Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Stephanie and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
And now I would like to turn the call over to Kurt Ogden Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Stephanie and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Huntsman's Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
Joining us on the call today are Jon Huntsman our Founder and Executive Chairman; Peter Huntsman President and CEO; and Kimo Esplin Executive Vice President and CFO.
This morning before the market opened we released our earnings for the second quarter 2014 via press release and posted it on our website huntsman.com.
We also posted a set of slides on our website which we intend to use on the call this morning in the discussion of our results.
During this call we may make statements about our projections or expectations for the future.
All such statements are forward-looking statements and while they reflect our current expectations they involve risks and uncertainties and are not guarantees of future performance.
You should review our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for more information regarding the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these projections or expectations.
We do not plan on publicly updating or revising any forward-looking statements during the quarter.
In addition we will also refer to non-GAAP financial measures such as EBITDA adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income or loss.
You can find reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in our earnings release which has been posted on our website huntsman.com.
Let's turn to some highlights on Slide #2.
In our earnings release this morning we reported second quarter 2014 revenue of $2 988 000 000; adjusted EBITDA of $363 million; and adjusted earnings per share of $0.59 per diluted share.
I will now turn the call over to Peter Huntsman our President and CEO.
Thank you Kurt.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us.
Let's turn to Slide #3.
Adjusted EBITDA for our polyurethanes division in the second quarter 2014 was $197 million.
Compared to the prior year we saw favorable earnings growth from our MDI urethanes business of $24 million whereas PO/MTBE earnings decreased $1 million as a result of a manufacturing disruption at our Ft.
Neches Texas facility negatively impacted our EBITDA by approximately $10 million in the quarter.
Demand for our MDI remains strong.
Global sales volumes grew 7% compared to the prior year with excellent growth in our insulation automotive and adhesives coatings and footwear businesses.
The majority of this growth came from the Asia Pacific region where all markets grew at double-digit rates.
In July we formally announced and held groundbreaking ceremonies with our joint venture partners to expand our MDI capacity in Caojing China.
When completed in 2017 our offtake from this new capacity will be approximately 200 000 tons and yield approximately $85 million of annual EBITDA at full run rates.
Second quarter demand in the Americas was strong and accelerated at the end of the quarter as commercial construction conditions [Audio Gap] our European demand was stable [Audio Gap] year-on-year improvements in our differentiated automotive adhesives and coatings demand.
Most of the [Audio Gap] came from Eastern Europe partially offset by slower sales in Russia as a result of the ongoing political turmoil.
The costs have been [Audio Gap] based on the second quarter compared to the prior year and global contract prices declined further in late June with prices in the U.S.
settling in at all-time records for July.
We've been out selling price increases to try to offset the high cost of raw materials.
Demand for PO/MTBE remains strong and in recent weeks have been an increase in our average MTBE selling price as energy markets have strengthened.
Let's turn to Slide #4.
In the second quarter our Performance Products division earned $115 million of adjusted EBITDA.
Within the quarter we saw strong demand for amines used in energy oilfields and agrochemicals markets.
Margins continue to improve as a result of the tightening supply/demand balance.
Maleic anhydride volumes also improved and earnings benefited from certain one-off sales which won't repeat in the third quarter.
During the quarter we successfully completed multiple maintenance projects.
The combined net impact of the maintenance and one-off sales benefits was negative $6 million of EBITDA.
On June 25 we announced the completion of sale of our European commodity surfactants business to Wilmar.
Along with this sale the closure of our Patrica Italy facility and the refocus on differentiated surfactants we believe we will improve our annual EBITDA by approximately $20 million beginning in 2015.
Let's turn to Slide #5.
The adjusted EBITDA in the second quarter in our Advanced Materials division was $53 million an improvement of [indiscernible] dollars compared to the prior year and represents the highest earnings quarter since we bought this business.
During this past quarter we completed our restructuring initiatives within this business the benefits from which are clearly evident in the improved earnings.
In addition to taking action in our fixed cost we shut down 2 base resin units and preferentially walked away from certain low-margin business which led to an 11% decrease in sales volumes compared to the prior year.
We have aligned our top line to focus on higher-value areas such as aerospace transportation and industrial.
These markets have the highest margin within Advanced Materials and represents approximately 60% of its earnings.
Our share of aerospace resins and hardeners is greater than 50% in most of the next-generation aircraft and build rates continue to grow.
Furthermore  [Audio Gap] transportation and industrials market we're seeing increased demand for our epoxies and resin and automotive applications NGL tankers and in oilfield drilling.
We're encouraged by long-term trends that we believe will continue to benefit this business.
However we expect a seasonal slowdown specifically in Europe in the third quarter.
During -- let's turn to Slide #6.
Our Textile Effects division reported adjusted EBITDA of $22 million in the second quarter an improvement of $19 million compared to the prior year and represents a record earnings since our acquisition in mid-2006.
The benefit of our restructuring efforts and focused growth strategy are clearly evident in the improved earnings of this business.
In addition to lowering our cost structure we have refocused our emphasis on key sectors and markets.
In so doing we have deselected certain low value business.
Our sales volumes grew 3% compared to the prior year adjusted for this deselection process.
Strong demand for our environmentally and economically sustainable chemicals and dyes has allowed us to raise our prices and improve margins.
Our average selling price increased 19% compared to the prior year as a result of our focus on high-margin products and increased raw material costs.
We expect progressive environmental regulations to further increase our raw material costs.
In July we announced additional price increases to cover our ongoing raw material cost increases.
Let's turn to Slide #7.
Our Pigments division earned $23 million of adjusted EBITDA in the second quarter.
We saw an increase in demand as our global sales volumes increased 3% compared to the prior year.
Most of the growth in sales volumes came from Europe which is our largest region whereas sales volumes growth in North America was more modest.
This was partially offset by lower sales volumes in other parts of the world where we sacrificed some sales volume in order to maintain our sales price at current levels.
Our average selling price decreased compared to the prior year and was unchanged compared to the first quarter.
We are getting prices up in all sectors in Europe in the third quarter however it is in -- it is very modest amounts.
In other regions we see stable pricing.
We remain optimistic that we will get some price increase within the second half of this year.
Before sharing some concluding thoughts I'd like to turn a few minutes over to our Chief Financial Officer Mr.
Kimo Esplin.
Thanks Peter.
Let's turn to Slide 8.
In the second quarter of 2014 compared to the prior year our adjusted EBITDA increased 19% to $363 million from $304 million.
Most of the improvement came from higher average selling prices however we've also seen improvement in sales volumes as well.
Compared to the prior quarter our EBITDA improved $34 million.
A seasonal uptick in demand lifted sales volumes dramatically.
Average selling prices improved across all our divisions with the exception of pigments where pricing was flat.
Contribution margins improved by approximately $10 million as we were able to stay ahead of higher raw material costs.
Partially offsetting these positive trends among other things was an increase in costs related to lower inventories and higher costs associated with maintenance.
We've been delivering on the restructuring savings plans we've laid out the benefits from which are clearly manifest in the improvement of our earnings.
Most of the restructuring savings are included in our results this quarter with the exception of approximately $20 million from our Performance Products division which we'll see in 2015.
Let's turn to Slide 9.
Our year-over-year consolidated sales revenue for the second quarter increased 6%.
This was due to higher average selling prices of 3% and an improvement in sales volumes of 2%.
From a regional perspective Europe improved 8% whereas Asia Pacific and our Rest of World category which is comprised of Latin America the Middle East and Africa each grew 9%.
North America was impacted by the planned maintenance and manufacturing disruption and decreased 1%.
Second quarter revenue increased across all of our divisions compared to the prior year.
Polyurethanes is our largest division.
It made up 33% of our total revenue in the second quarter and grew 5%.
MDI urethanes revenue increased 8% and more than offset the negative impact from the PO/MTBE manufacturing disruption.
Performance Products revenue increased 7% as a result of higher average selling prices.
In Advanced Materials and Textile Effects higher average selling prices more than offset the impact of walking away from certain low-margin business.
Sales revenue increased 1% and 15% respectively.
Pigments revenues increased 2% as a result of higher sales volumes which grew 3%.
Our total sales revenue increased 2% in the second quarter this year compared to last year.
Average selling prices improved across all our divisions with the exception of pigments where pricing was flat.
Sales revenues increased in all of our divisions as a result of higher average selling prices and seasonally higher volumes.
Slide 10.
At the end of the quarter we had approximately $1 072 000 000 of cash and unused borrowing capacity.
Let me [Audio Gap] generally we build working capital in the first half of the year and reduce it in the second half of the year.
In June 2014 we issued an additional EUR 145 million of 5.125% senior notes due 2021.
The notes were issued at a premium to yield 4.57%.
The proceeds were used for general and corporate purposes.
During the quarter we spent $107 million on capital expenditures.
We expect to spend approximately $500 million on capital expenditures in 2014 excluding any amounts associated with the planned acquisition of the performance additives and titanium dioxide businesses of Rockwood.
As Peter mentioned we broke ground in July for our new MDI joint venture project in China.
Our net capital commitment to this project will be approximately $115 million with the balance funded by partners and nonrecourse bank financing.
We are accelerating depreciation expense this year by $17 million primarily related to the closure of our commodities surfactants facility in Patrica Italy.
The accelerated charge in the second quarter was $5 million and it is expected to taper off each quarter for the remainder of the year.
Our adjusted effective income tax rate for the second quarter was 2 -- second quarter 2014 was 25%.
The low tax rate was a result of the release of tax valuation allowances in part due to the restructuring of our European surfactants business.
We expect our 2014 fully or adjusted effective tax rate to be in the low 30s excluding the impact of the acquisition of the Rockwood businesses.
We expect our long-term adjusted effective tax rate to be approximately 30%.
Preliminary figures for the Rockwood performance additives and titanium dioxide businesses that we are purchasing indicates [indiscernible] business generated approximately $100 million of adjusted EBITDA in the first half of 2014 well on track to earn the $200 million we forecast for 2014 when we announced the deal.
This performance was primarily due to the strength of the non-TiO2 portion of the business which comprises approximately 60% of the first half adjusted EBITDA.
These non-TiO2 businesses include wood treatment color pigment functional additives water treatment and Gomet businesses.
We estimate the cash purchase price for these businesses to be approximately $1 billion after giving effect to certain adjustments in the purchase agreement.
At the time the deal was announced nearly a year ago we also believed that our pigments businesses would have a second half run rate of $200 million with the benefit of a midyear price increase which now appears unlikely at this point.
Peter? Thank you Kimo.
This [Audio Gap] Strong quarter moves us closer to our forecast EBITDA run rate of $2 billion in 2 to 3 [Audio Gap] with our shareholders this past March at our Investor Day.
In fact some of our non-pigment divisions equaled our best quarter ever and we still have plenty of upside coming in the next 2 to 3 years.
I would like to note that our restructuring is essentially complete within our Textile Effects and Advanced Materials division.
Long-term we will benefit further from our focus on aerospace transportation industrial applications and our Advanced Materials and sustainable textile dyes and chemicals.
However we expect near-term earnings to be more in line with current levels and seasonal trends.
Our Performance Products continues to grow at attractive rates specifically in our amines and maleic product lines.
And we are well-positioned to take advantage of cheap North American raw materials.
In the next year we will see the benefits of our expanded ethylene oxide and amines production as well as improvements due to our European surfactants restructuring.
While recently in China we broke ground on our MDI polyurethanes facility as well as reviewed the ongoing construction of our propylene oxide/MTBE joint venture with Sinopec.
We continue to see strong demand for MDI in China and other Asian markets as well as our urethanes North American markets.
We believe that as some of the announced global MDI capacity expansions are further delayed utilization rates will remain in the range of 90% for the next few years and market conditions will be favorable.
While I am not happy with the market conditions of our TiO2 business we are seeing gradually improving market conditions and we'll continue to push for price increases in the second half of this year.
This is certainly a division that has room for improvement.
Regarding our proposed acquisition of the Rockwood Holding Performance Additives and Titanium Dioxide businesses as Kimo mentioned in his comments we are right where we thought we would be with the Rockwood earnings for this year.
We continue to work closely with the European Commission in its review.
We have proposed certain remedies we believe [Audio Gap] the Commission's concern and are confident that final approval will be secured in the next -- by the end of the third quarter.
We are in the process of extending the termination date of the agreement with Rockwood and related financing to accommodate any possible delays that may arise from the European Commission review.
I believe this is a great acquisition at the right time and at the right value.
In short we had a very strong quarter.
But I see plenty of room for growth in earnings.
We're on track to deliver our plan to the market and we're off to a great year and we still have plenty more to come.
With that I'll turn the call back over to Kurt.
Thank you Peter.
Stephanie will you please go ahead and explain the procedure for questions-and-answers and then open the lines? [Operator Instructions] The first question comes from the line of Bob Koort from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could help out I think you talked to some of the points but it seemed that your cash from operations was relatively anemic compared to your EBITDA? And looks like a big increase in receivables.
Can you talk about what the factors are that led to some leakage down in the cash generation line? And then what you might see in the second half? Sure.
Actually second quarter cash generation was spot on what we thought it would be.
Again it's roughly $100 million build in working capital in the second quarter.
I think when I look at our budgets I think we were just a little higher than that.
CapEx is on track and cash taxes were a little higher relative to the rate because we pushed some cash taxes from 2013 into the first quarter.
But when you think about other cash payments in the quarter $19 million of cash restructuring payments were made.
Pension was $28 million.
And then of course the dividend but those were the items so that from an operating cash standpoint pretty well breakeven but that was expected.
Again second half you'll see that working capital line reverse and our expectation is for the year that working capital will be flat notwithstanding having built working capital by what almost $300 million a little over $300 million in the first half.
Research Division</strong> And so my follow-up could you talk a little bit about obviously you're not giving guidance for next year but sort of more of a range of where you might expect cash generation to be? And then can you talk a little bit about the scale of the businesses requiring the remedies in the Rockwood transaction? Is it 5% 10% 15% of the acquired assets? And I'm in an airport so I'll put it on mute.
Sure.
Sure.
I think in our Investor Day we sort of outlined what we think the next couple of years will be relative to cash generation assuming a certain EBITDA level.
But I think the important items are cash restructuring.
This year we'll spend over $100 million.
I think you can expect in the next few years that that will fall to say $25 million.
We've been spending in terms of cash on pension $140 million to $150 million.
My expectation that will be cut in half certainly as most of our European-defined benefit plans are fully funded and with the lower interest rate environment our liabilities have come down relative to our funding.
The capital expenditure line item I think will stay right around depreciation but at $500 million I think we can accommodate the Rockwood businesses and still spend right around that level adjusting for the Augusta new plant that will be completed here in the first part of 2015.
And I think the last component of cash Bob is interest expense.
We have $900 million of high-coupon bonds that become callable early in 2015.
We just issued some bonds at roughly 4.5% and the bonds that we would be calling are -- have an interest rate of about 8.5%.
So I think we can reduce our cash interest expense by a significant amount as we call those bonds in 2015.
So all in all I think what we outlined was that our target level of $2 billion of EBITDA in the next couple of years we can generate right around $700 million worth of free cash before distribution back to shareholders in terms of share buybacks and dividends.
To your second question relative to the size of the remedies that we're talking about they are insignificant.
I would think about them in the neighborhood of $5 million to $10 million of EBITDA impact on the entire -- in the entire Pigments business.
Your next question comes from the line of P.J.
Juvekar From Citi.
Research Division</strong> Pete you talked about $2 billion of EBITDA in the next few years.
Is that a 2017 target? And then what has to go right? Or which segments have to contribute the most to get to that number? I think P.J if you look at this I would ask that you go back to our Investor Day slides where we broke out where we were in 2013 and where we expect to be over the course of the next 2 to 3 years.
So I'm not sure that I'd necessarily stated that $2 billion result will occur in any one specific calendar year but rather we believe that the business will be running at that $2 billion run rate over the course of the next 2 to 3 years.
As we look at that some of the divisions we believe are able to reach a very specific target that we've outlined and that we have on our Investor Day slides.
And as you look at the improvement in each of those divisions they're all associated with a specific project that's been attached to that division.
So we see our polyurethanes going to $875 million which is an improvement from where it is today of about $100 million.
We see our poly -- our Performance Products going to $500 million which is only about a 10% improvement over the run rate of where we are today.
We see our Advanced Materials going to $175 million annualized run rate which is about where we are today.
Our Textile Effects going to $75 million which is about -- a little bit further than from where we are today.
Our pigments and I think that this is the area where we would be expecting perhaps the greatest step forward from where we are today we see that number going to $225 million which is really getting the business back to a kind of a minimal nominal margin positive margin for the [Audio Gap] And then we see the Rockwood acquisition adding about $350 million of EBITDA on top of that which is simply the present run rate today plus second [ph] synergies.
So as we look at that $2 billion run rate I don't see any pie-in-the-sky.
We've got to go out and double margins in any one product or have some ridiculous unrealistic price increase or anything.
These are all projects that have been announced they've been approved by our Board of Directors and it's just a question of executing on those.
And I think when you look at our past quarter earnings from where we were in 2013 to where we are today we continue to see that sort of trajectory and that improvement in earnings to get up to that $2 billion.
So I feel today even more confident in that number than I was -- when in March when we gave that number to our investors.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And just in pigments you mentioned in your slides that inventory levels are high.
Have you seen a change in strategy for some of your competitors in terms of prices or volume? No I'm not really seeing any change in strategy that would be material.
I'd be very hesitant to talk about any of our competitors' strategies just simply because I simply don't know what goes on.
I can't even begin to guess what goes on in some of our competitors' thinking and so forth when it comes to inventory and so forth.
But anyway as I look at our TiO2 in the first quarter we had inventories of around 62 63 days.
Today we have inventories in about the mid-50s.
And typically in this industry if you have inventories in the mid-50s that's usually a pretty good area for -- to be able to achieve pricing.
But obviously there are other variables aside from inventory raw material costs and demand trends and seasonality and so forth.
But certainly I would see the pigments industry in better condition today to push pricing through than I would have in the last couple of.
[Audio Gap] P.J I'll add we no longer have the transparency we once had with the industry reporting inventories.
And that was part of a legal settlement where we no longer have that mechanism.
So it's hard to know exactly where inventories are so these are sort of our estimates on industry days.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin McCarthy from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Peter you expressed some confidence that MDA -- MDI operating rates would remain at 90% plus.
Can you talk about the changes that you've witnessed on the supply side of the equation? And perhaps give us some color on where you see operating rates today on a regional basis? I would say that operating rates on a regional basis it's -- certainly would be a fairly tight North America demand particularly in the end of June.
Seeing the pickup I think that we saw at the end of the second quarter demand pickup that we typically see in the beginning of the first quarter around housing and construction demand.
So I think that obviously it's no secret that we had a pretty late winter pretty late spring and I think that we've seen kind of a bounce in housing in North American demand across all of our businesses at the end of the second quarter.
I think as we look at Asia there's been some recent capacity that's come on in the Asian market particularly in China.
I'd say that we're operating somewhere in the high-80s and Europe demand has been -- growth in the last year has been pretty flat.
We've seen some stronger segments in kind of the higher-end automotive end in Eastern Europe and so forth but it's been pretty flat in Europe.
I'd say globally that you're looking at capacity utilization rates probably around 90-ish percent rate globally.
But that's going to vary a couple of percentage points depending on what region you're in around the world.
And as we look more and more at our business I think that our objective is to have our business less dependent on operating rates.
As we go further and further downstream you're going to have a business that's less dependent on operating rates than we would have had 1 year or 2 ago and I would imagine the next year or 2 as we continue to move further downstream we're going to be less sensitive to operating rates across-the-board.
So I would say again globally today you're probably give or take a few points around that 90% utilization rate.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then as a second question if I may going back to your Investor Day you provided a helpful slide outlining your various growth projects.
MDI in the U.S.
and Europe; I think you've got a PO JV in China EO expansion et cetera.
And so my question would be if you think about the last 4 or 5 months has there been any change in those projects with regard to cost timeline or expected EBITDA that you would consider to be meaningful? I'd say on the costing side and on the EBITDA side I would say no.
I would say that on the EO expansion in North America.
I would -- I think in the Investor Day we were talking about more of a first or second quarter 2015.
I would imagine that that's going to be closer to a third to fourth quarter probably fourth quarter 2015 I'm sorry so a delay of probably 2 quarters.
Now again I want to emphasize I don't see the price of the project going up.
We're -- just engineering -- third-party engineering that should've taken a quarter or 2 has taken 2 to 3 quarters.
This is not just pertaining to Huntsman.
I think it's more of an industry issue around a slowdown in construction.
As we look at our pigments projects and so forth I see those on stream coming on stream about what we told people on the Investor Day; Textile Effects should be about what we told people.
The MDI expansion taking place in the U.S.
and North America these are smaller debottlenecks.
That might be pushed back a quarter or so.
But again the annualized EBITDA impact of these might be pushed back a quarter or 2.
But I don't see the EBITDA once those projects are up and going being impacted at all.
Matter of fact again as I talked about some of the slowdown in my comments that we're seeing around the world I'm -- I would certainly think that it's safe to assume that our competitors and competing MDI projects around the world if anything kind of collectively are being pushed back quarters or even a year or so.
And so I think that that is going to push out the added capacity by another year or so.
And I think it's going to keep operating rates from going lower than I would've thought a year ago.
Kevin maybe I can just add one thing.
The very first project you mentioned it was the MDI investment in the Netherlands and the U.S.
I think you can think about half of that coming on early in 2015 the U.S.
piece.
The European piece would be the other half and that comes on the first part of 2016.
Your next question comes from the line of James Sheehan from SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering if you could discuss the sensitivity of your downstream MDI businesses to benzene prices? Are they less sensitive to raw materials as a result of them being more specialized? And how does that play into your overall expectations for the Polyurethanes segment in the second half? I think that if we look at it from the second half first half I think that the markets are tight enough.
We feel quite confident that we'll be able to offset these higher benzene prices with price increases.
We've got in the second quarter an $0.08 price increase per pound that was effective July 1.
Another $0.08 that's been announced for August 1 and I believe from what we're seeing in the market that we feel very confident at this point that we'll be able to offset the benzene -- the higher benzene prices that we saw coming out at the end of the second quarter.
Now if you look at the downstream businesses obviously when you differentiate your product the advantage that we have when you look further downstream is that benzene becomes less of a percentage of your overall cost.
You're mixing more raw materials you're mixing more components into your MDI and so instead of benzene being 20% 30% 40% of your cost it's going to be obviously quite a bit less than that.
And therefore I think that our pricing -- our need to increase prices to offset benzene price increases will be easier because it will -- it's a simpler -- it's a smaller percentage of increase we'll be looking for.
So I think in the short-term for the second half I believe that we do have price increases in place today to offset the benzene prices that we have seen thus far.
I would remind you that benzene moves on a daily basis.
So I don't think we can look at prices today and say that's what it's going to be 3 months from now.
But I think the market is tight enough that we can offset those prices in the second half.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And also on the Rockwood acquisition part of the business you gave some good color on color pigments and some of the various pieces there.
I was just wondering if you could elaborate a little bit more on the actual TiO2 portion of Rockwood? How is that doing especially in the more specialized applications? Well there's the more specialized applications that are maintaining good demand or maintaining their margins and that's an area where we're seeing better opportunity for price improvement than we are on the more commoditized coatings end of the business.
And I think that the Pigments business in Rockwood is playing out a little bit less than we had anticipated.
The other non-TiO2 ends of the Rockwood business are playing out better than anticipated.
And obviously as we improve pricing in our own TiO2 business we'll see an impact -- we'll see an improvement in the Rockwood business as well.
So I think that as we anticipate further price increases taking place in the pigments end we'll see that on both sides.
Your next question comes from the line of Hassan Ahmed from Alembic Global.
Just wanted to get more commentary around the comments that you made around TiO2 pricing in the second half possibly not being able to get it despite inventory levels being say close to the mid-50s.
I mean is this more a function like you said I mean inventory seems to have been rightsized now but is this more of a function of sort of trying to find some stability in ore prices? And as and when those stabilize you can probably go ahead with these price hikes sticking? I'm not sure that ore price movements have a great deal of impact on TiO2 prices.
This is a question of producers being able to hold the line with customers and that's where the battle is being fought.
I don't see a great deal of influence being pushed on TiO2 finished pricing because of what's happening in ore.
I do see ore prices stable if not having a bit of a downward pressure across-the-board.
And this may very marginally help pigments but the pigments industries is going to be out there and raise prices and that's a tough thing for any product to do and you need to see a material improvement in the business that's what needs to happen.
Fair enough.
Now moving on to the polyurethane side of things.
Obviously you have a sort of 2 to 3 forecast of $2 billion in EBITDA out there.
Just trying to get a sense of -- I don't have the numbers exactly in front of me but I do remember that you guys did around 20% EBITDA margins back in '05 in polyurethanes.
Since that period obviously I would imagine MTBE has become a far greater contributor to the Polyurethanes segment.
So just trying to get a sense of what is baked into that $2 billion EBITDA sort of estimate that you have in terms of polyurethane EBITDA margins particularly keeping in mind the higher contribution of MTBE now? I would say that of the $2 billion relative to today's MTBE price so if I look at our last year's 2013 EBITDA polyurethane around $750 million and we're saying that of the $2 billion where we see ourselves in the next 2 or 3 years $875 million of that is going to be polyurethane.
I don't believe that there's any -- we're not anticipating any material change in the PO/MTBE business as part of that $135 million improvement.
What we are seeing is an improvement in margins on the MDI side further downstream and we see continued growth of 7% to 8% over the next 2 to 3 years.
So that's really the improvement needs to take place on that and I don't think that it would be I don't know maybe right for us to sit here and say that we believe the MTBE margins are going to be materially higher in a year or so.
Fair enough.
But I mean just for the segment overall I mean the segment this quarter reported 15% EBITDA margins.
I mean is it fair to assume that as conditions particularly within MDI tighten from here you could get to north of 20% EBITDA margins in that segment? I think yes you point to 2005 when we had 20 [ph] EBITDA margins and we had a higher percentage of our business in components.
And obviously in very tight conditions which we had in 2005 those components achieved higher margins than what I would say our systems will do in an extremely tight market.
So our estimate is that if we had the 2005 conditions all over again with the current portfolio of polyurethanes systems and components businesses we have today we wouldn't do 22% margins.
But I think we would be approaching 20%.
So I think high-teens up to 20% is probably a good way to think about it.
The $875 million that we have in our $2 billion number Hassan that's probably around a 17% margin.
And we're not sitting here and saying that we're going to get back to 20%.
I think that there's a strong likelihood that we will.
I think that the market could very well get back to those sort of levels but when you look at the $2 billion number again I want to be realistic we're looking at something in the upper teens of that number.
If we get back into the same operating rates that we saw back in '05 you'll see a number well north of $1 billion not an $875 million of EBITDA.
Your next question comes from the line of Frank Mitsch from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Gentlemen I want to come back to the Rockwood deal Peter.
Back in March you guys were able to modify the transaction such that you lowered the cash portion by $50 million and I know that you're proposing certain remedies to try and get this deal closed by the end of the quarter and I was just curious how should we think about those certain remedies impacting either the purchase price or the asset base of what you're going to be acquiring or would like to acquire? I'll make a couple of points.
First of all I think that we cannot give details at this point as far as what we're doing with the EC.
But we are confident that the remedies address the EC's major concerns.
I'd also add that the remedies are immaterial to the overall business.
And it's consistent with what we've said in the past and they will not include a divestiture of a facility.
And I think that's an important part.
We've been very consistent in that.
And I think that we've given some light around the EBITDA impact as being immaterial to the business and so forth.
So I don't think that there's anything different to report at this time than perhaps what we were saying last time only that perhaps we're more confident today that something is going to get done by the end of the third quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
That's helpful.
So if you get the Commission approval by the end of the third quarter how should we think about the inclusion of those businesses flowing into Huntsman? What sort of timeframe should we think about? Fourth quarter event.
Obviously once we get the EU approval we'll be closing the business in a matter of days and from that point on we'll be including those earnings.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
Great.
And you've mentioned during the -- the discussion on Performance Products business something about one-off sales and then that was part of something that was negatively impacting EBITDA.
I guess I sometimes think about one-off sales as a positive event.
Any kind of color that you could provide as to what occurred there? My apologies if that was at all confusing.
What I was trying to say is we had a maintenance shutdown or maintenance work that was approximately $10 million in expenses.
We had up sales that were a positive $4 million and so -- and the one-off sales these were catalyst materials and the reason I say they're one-off we have catalyst sales throughout the year but I can't sit here and say third quarter next year I can basically tell you how much amines we're going to be selling next year.
As far as catalyst sales those sales come in somewhat haphazardly as catalyst wears down and so forth in our maleic late business and other sales dealing with technologies.
So we have this $10 million hit in maintenance work.
We had a positive number on the one-off sale which kind of is a net 6.
And so again yes any time a one-off sale would be a negative I'd question why.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Ritzenthaler from Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> A follow-up on raw materials and polyurethanes.
To what extent did raw material escalation impact profitability in 2Q given that the price increases came relatively late in the quarter? And I'd be interested in commentary on the effects geographically given that benzene is -- the benzene escalation is mainly a North American phenomenon? Sure.
Raw materials were about -- we're talking year-over-year in polyurethanes there was headwind of about $10 million almost entirely in benzene.
We've been talking about third quarter headwind with benzene continuing to go up.
If it stays at about $5 a gallon that's another I think $20 million of benzene headwind by the way.
The pricing initiatives in the second quarter offset that almost dollar-to-dollar.
So we do have a little bit of a luxury in that when benzene prices go up we've got inventory and so by the time we run through that inventory of if you will the lower price benzene hopefully we've got our prices up by the time we're taking it in the chops on the benzene prices so.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That makes sense.
And then I guess just as a follow-up on the component MDI sales in China and I'm just curious as to how long that market is.
And I guess the spirit of the question is around how transient those component sales I mean calling them out as a bit weaker how transient that is? We think that those are pretty solid sales in China.
We have -- we do very little third-party sales in China.
We're going through brokers and distributors.
The vast majority of our products there is going directly to the automotive directly into the construction materials and so forth.
And so I wouldn't characterize our sales there as transient.
I think as we look at those downstream sales we see those continuing to grow and we see it as a very solid base.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Walker from Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on polyurethanes and some of the bridge items looking into Q3 and Q4.
When you layer everything together I guess can you walk us through Q2 to Q3 and then Q3 to Q4? And then on that I guess just a follow-up to the previous question to what degree could lower component pricing in China impact the downstream systems pricing? I think the last question I'll take and that is systems prices tend not to move much.
And so we should as MDI prices fall if they were to fall usually are able to retain the system margin.
And therein lies the upside and if you're -- given a real fly-up scenario we have less upside in the system business but much more stable.
I mentioned that we have a third quarter headwind relative to the second quarter of about $20 million of benzene if you believe in $5 a gallon benzene.
And so obviously prices need to come up and Peter mentioned sort of the price initiatives.
We have seen some softness in China -- Chinese polymeric MDI pricing.
And that is a result of new capacity coming on in China from our competitors.
But we expect that to come back as that volume is placed in the market.
And we also expect to see prices in other regions rising.
And we expect to offset that pricing in the third quarter where MDI pricing on sequential basis -- excuse me MDI urethanes EBITDA will improve second quarter to third quarter and year-over-year.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And just briefly in pigments previously you mentioned the floor in that business being $100 million on an annualized EBITDA basis.
Do you need pricing in the second half to get to that this year? So to get $30 million [ph] for the year? Research Division</strong> Yes.
No we're on a run rate now of about $100 million.
And I would just say that as we look at pricing I did mention that we see prices in the fourth quarter slightly improving between now and the end of the year.
Obviously demand slows in the fourth quarter in TiO2 so you see a small improvement in pricing a diminishment in demand as it seasonally happens.
And I would think that as we look at the pigments pricing today the net effect on all that is I think you're looking at a pretty flat third and fourth quarter in comparison to the second quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Edlain Rodriguez from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on pigments Peter.
I mean in the last call you said you thought the deal back in April was a better deal than it was when it was announced in September.
I mean given the unimpressive results of the Pigments business both yours and somewhat in Rockwood do you still feel the same way that the deal is a better deal? And why is that? Well absolutely I feel it's a better deal.
I do on 2 reasons.
If you'd give me some more time I think I can come up with a lot more reasons than that.
But just of the shoot [ph] -- look TiO2 is a great product.
Longer-term the price of this is going to improve.
And we may be off 1 quarter or 2 on when prices go up and so forth but inventory rates aren't [ph] coming down in the industry demand is building.
Our principal market in Europe demand continues to improve in Europe better CDP [ph].
And longer-term TiO2 I think is going to be a great product.
But I guess what I'm more enthusiastic about with the Rockwood acquisition is the non-TiO2 piece.
And what we're trying to do here with our pigments is not just trying to get sale of TiO2 but we're also trying to get diversity.
We're trying to other than expand vertically and get into a business where we're digging for rocks we're looking at getting a business that is more horizontal in nature where we've got colored pigments water treatment wood treatment and when I look at the diversity of our technology and the diversity of applications and pricing and customers and so forth that's what we want at the end of the day.
So here you've got a pigments not just TiO2 but a pigments business that while pigment pricing is flat the other side the other end of the business is more than making up for it.
So yes while I'm disappointed in TiO2 pricing I'm very impressed that the non-TiO2 segments of the Rockwood business are performing as well as they are today.
And I think that that's better what I had expected.
So again TiO2 will come back.
If it's not this quarter it's going to be in the coming quarters.
It's a great industry.
But the non-TiO2 business the more I get my hands around that the more I see that the more opportunity I see in that business.
It's big business doing better than we thought it would be.
Well and again let's just do the numbers for you and remind you we talked about $1 billion cash purchase price $200 million of what we're going to say is trough EBITDA for these businesses is certainly trough TiO2-economic.
So we're buying a business at 5x trough with upside and post synergy we have a 3x EBITDA business at trough.
What's not to get excited about that? Research Division</strong> That makes sense.
And one last question on Advanced Materials.
You noted that you walked away from some low-margin businesses.
So when you look at the portfolio like how much of that type of business is still left that type of a low-margin business how much is still left in the portfolio? I think it's probably 10% or perhaps even less than 10%.
We might be -- if I look over the next quarter or 2 we might be exiting a few more of those applications and accounts depending on pricing.
And look we've done 2 areas in that business.
And I hope that the market doesn't focus so much on price cutting but rather where we're positioning ourselves in aerospace and transportation and automotive and industrial applications and so forth with our Advanced Materials group.
And so yes we're going to see sales down.
And as we reported this last quarter we might even see that in the next quarter or 2 see that continuing.
But when we look at the -- as we look at the aerospace industry and all these other areas of applications if you strip out and monetize the nonprofitable end of the business we're seeing 2x to 3x GDP sort of growth taking place in the other ends of the business and that's where earnings growth is going to take place and that's where the future of the business is.
So I think as we look at that business probably in coming quarters we're a little less focused on cost and much more focused on growth margin expansion and opportunities to further improve that business.
The next question comes from the line of Herb Hart [ph] from Monus [ph] The question is regarding the operating and expense line.
I noticed you've been holding it flat to down a little last couple of quarters.
Is that going to be able to continue? Can you actually drive costs down a little more in that part of the business? Well the announced restructurings relative to fixed costs are really sort of coming to an end.
As we mentioned we have performance products that has another $20 million to go with the shutdown of the Patrica Italian facility and with the sale of our Lavera France facility and European surfactants.
The direct costs are going to be largely raw materials and so they will move with energy prices generally.
So again what we're focused on is growth in this business.
And with that growth I think we're going to be able to improve our profitability as we grow without increasing our fixed cost portion of our business.
We'll take -- operator we've gone a little bit over time than what we had planned for.
We'll take one more question here.
Okay.
This is the last question and this comes from the line of Jeff Zekauskas from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So 2 things.
I think Chinese TiO2 exports are up something like 50% to 60% this year to about 275 000 tons from 175 000.
Does that have an influence on the market? And how do you see Chinese exports through the year in TiO2? And secondly you talked about additions in MDI capacity in China in 2014.
How much capacity do you think was added? If we look at the TiO2 I see that as being fairly flat from here on out.
As we look at the exports into U.S.
and exports into North America and I should say in the European market that's really not growing all that much from the Chinese export point of view.
Where you see the Chinese really growing their product is in further APAC Africa Middle East and a little bit in Latin America and so forth.
Look eventually those tons that are displaced there will come back and means that we've got to compete in those market areas and so forth.
But I personally and I mean absolutely no disrespect to Chinese producers -- their technology is getting better and better and I look at them as being formidable competitors.
I just don't see Chinese exports as having a great deal of impact on pricing and margin.
There's plenty of capacity.
There's plenty of supply and demand in North America and Europe.
If the producers there want to get serious they can improve margins.
So I wouldn't read too much into the Chinese exports and the impact that the Chinese are having in the market.
In China with the announced additions of capacities coming on in 2014 I'm reticent to start naming competitors and capacities and so forth.
So I would just say that we believe that the volume that's been added thus far this year with the present growth rate that we see in China we think that the vast majority of that capacity would be absorbed in the Chinese market.
And that operating [indiscernible] will stay relatively consistent in that market and the operating rates will improve in North America and in Europe.
So globally you'll probably see an improvement of a couple of percentage points throughout the year because you're going to see tighter markets in Europe and North America and it's going to be lumpy.
When you get a new facility come on at 200 000 or 300 000 tons coming on in China you're not going to absorb all that in 1 month or even 1 quarter.
But I think that these plants don't come up just overnight.
When somebody adds about [ph] 300 000 tons into the market it used to take a couple of quarters for an MDI facility to come up and run at capacity and run at design rate and run on spec material.
So it's kind of -- I mean statistically you say 400 000 tons is added into the market in the second quarter but I don't believe that much capacity comes in on spec in the second quarter all at once.
It's a gradual impact that hits the market.
This is Kurt Ogden.
I believe that concludes our call today.
We want to thank everybody for joining us and of course if you have additional questions don't hesitate to reach out to us.
Thanks everybody.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen that concludes your conference call for today.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you for joining and enjoy the rest of your day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the third-quarter 2014 Huntsman Corporation earnings conference call.
My name is Denise and I'll be the operator for today.
[Operator instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I will now turn the conference over to Mr.
Kurt Ogden Huntsman Corporation's Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Denise.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to Huntsman's third-quarter 2014 earnings call.
Joining us on the call today are Jon Huntsman our Founder and Executive Chairman; Peter Huntsman President and CEO; and Kimo Esplin Executive Vice President and CFO.
This morning before the market opened we released our earnings for the third quarter 2014 via press release and posted it on our website huntsman.com.
We also posted a set of slides on our website which we intend to use on the call this morning in the discussion of our results.
During this call we may make statements about our projections or expectations for the future.
All such statements are forward-looking statements and while they reflect our current expectations they involve risks and uncertainties and are not guarantees of future performance.
You should review our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for more information regarding the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these projections or expectations.
We do not plan on publicly updating or revising any forward-looking statements during the quarter.
In addition we will also refer to non-GAAP financial measures such as EBITDA adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income or loss.
You can find reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in our earnings release which has been posted on our website at huntsman.com.
Let's turn to some highlights on slide number 2.
In our earnings release this morning we reported third-quarter 2014 revenue of $2.884 billion adjusted EBITDA of $356 million and adjusted earnings of share of $0.60 per diluted share.
I will now turn the call over to Peter Huntsman our President and CEO.
Thank you Kurt.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us.
Let's turn to slide number 3.
Adjusted EBITDA for our polyurethanes division in the third quarter 2014 was $187 million.
During the quarter we experienced a manufacturing disruption at our Port Neches Texas facility which negatively impacted EBITDA by approximately $30 million.
Demand for our MDI remains strong.
Global sales volumes grew 5% compared to the prior year despite a weak European economy which led to flat sales in Europe.
Our Asia business continues to expand.
Within China our sales volumes grew 7% in the third quarter albeit at a slower pace than the second quarter.
Asian growth was led by strong double-digit growth in our differentiated and consumer-driven automotive and furniture markets.
North America was the real highlight in the third quarter with volume growth at 12%.
Demand in our 2 largest North American markets were strong with insulation growing at more than 20% and composite wood products increasing 9%.
As a reminder we have scheduled maintenance for the first quarter of 2015 at our PO/MTBE facility in Port Neches Texas.
We currently estimate that the facility will be offline for approximately 60 days beginning around the 1st of February.
The EBITDA impact will be approximately $60 million.
This amount includes lost revenue and unabsorbed fixed costs for the period.
In addition the maintenance costs will be approximately $90 million.
However these costs are capitalized and amortized over approximately 5 years until the next scheduled maintenance outage reducing future EBITDA over that future period of time.
The total cost of the maintenance will be approximately $150 million.
We expect a typical seasonal slowdown in the fourth quarter as MDI demand slows and PO/MTBE prices soften.
Turning to slide number 4 in the third quarter our performance products division achieved record margins and earned a record adjusted EBITDA of $129 million.
We continue to see strong demand for amines used in energy oilfield and epoxy markets.
Margins continue to improve as a result of the tightening supply-demand balance.
Maleic and hydride volumes have been strong in part due to some industry supply outages in North America.
Our margins have improved generally as a direct result of our attractive integrated position and our leverage to low-cost raw materials on the US Gulf Coast.
In the fourth quarter we expect to see a typical slowdown in demand as customers' business activity slows down and they reduce their year-end working capital.
It's not unusual to see fourth-quarter sequential earnings decrease more than 20%.
This year we sold our European commodity surfactants business in the second quarter and closed our Patrica Italy facility in October.
Along with the concentrated focus on differentiated surfactants we believe we will improve our annual EBITDA by approximately $20 million beginning in 2015.
Let's turn to slide number 5.
Adjusted EBITDA for the third quarter in our advanced materials division was $57 million in part due to $7 million of one-time benefit related to inventory accounting.
We continue to see strong demand in our aerospace composites.
Volumes in this key market increased at double-digit rates compared to the prior year.
This important market was the highest margin within the division and represents approximately 30% of its earnings.
We are encouraged by the long-term trends as production rates of next-generation aircraft such as the Boeing 787 and the Airbus 350 continue to ramp up.
We've seen strong demand in earnings growth in our composites used in NGL tanker linings oilfield drilling and epoxy coatings.
Favorable business conditions in these applications led to a year-over-year increase in earnings of $7 million in our transportation and industrial and coatings construction markets.
Although much of the fourth-quarter seasonality has been overshadowed recently by results of improved earnings from our restructuring it is not unusual for fourth-quarter sequential earnings to decrease as much as 30% in this division.
Turning to slide 6 our textile effects divisions reported adjusted EBITDA of $14 million in the third quarter the most we have earned in any third quarter since we've owned the business.
Second-quarter earnings are usually the strongest within this business.
We've lowered our cost structure and refocused our emphasis on key sectors and markets.
As a result we have deselected certain lower-value business.
Our sales volumes grew 6% compared to the [indiscernible] adjusted for this deselection process.
Strong demand for our environmentally and economically sustainable chemicals and dyes has allowed us to raise our prices and improve margins.
Our average selling price increased 17% compared to the prior year as a result of our focus on higher margin product and increased raw material costs.
We are proud of the product improvement in this division.
Chemical industry experts are also taking note.
We recently received the highest award available and were the overall winner of the ICIS innovation awards.
Let's turn to slide number 7.
Our pigments division earned $18 million of adjusted EBITDA in the third quarter.
Our global sales volumes improved 6% compared to the prior year as we saw meaningful improvement in North America and Asia Pacific.
This is partially offset by lower demand in Europe where sales volumes decreased 8% which we believe was consistent with the overall industry.
Our average selling price decreased compared to the prior year and prior quarter.
We believe the soft pricing environment is a result of high industry inventory days.
At the end of the third quarter our inventory days on hand were in the mid 50s.
Starting in the fourth quarter this division will be reported as pigments and additives.
All of the businesses acquired from Rockwood will be included in this division with the exception of a small business known as Gomet which makes specialty automotive polyurethane molded components and will be part of our polyurethanes division.
Although we didn't own the assets in the third quarter the Rockwood businesses earned $37 million this year and was impacted by approximately $5 million of planned maintenance at its Duisburg Germany facility.
This compares to $40 million last year.
We believe TiO2 prices and volumes in the fourth quarter will be seasonably soft.
Last year the Rockwood businesses earned approximately $26 million in the fourth quarter and we expect this year will be similar.
We now have 7 pigment manufacturing facilities in Europe with over 700 000 metric tons of capacity.
In light of the sluggish European economy and softer TiO2 demand we're in the process of evaluating whether we need all of our current capacity.
Before sharing some concluding thoughts I'd like to turn a few minutes over to Kimo Esplin our Chief Financial Officer.
Thanks Peter.
Slide 8 – in the third quarter of 2014 compared to the prior year our adjusted EBITDA decreased to $356 million from $376 million as a result of our PO/MTBE manufacturing outage which impacted EBITDA by approximately $30 million.
Sales volumes decreased in large part due to the deselection of lower-margin business.
Average selling prices improved across the majority of our divisions which more than offset higher raw material costs.
Compared to the prior quarter our EBITDA decreased $7 million.
Our average selling prices improved offsetting lower sales volumes.
Slide 9 – our year-over-year consolidated sales revenue for the third quarter increased 1%.
This was primarily due to higher average selling prices of 3% offset by a decrease in sales volumes of 3%.
From a regional perspective US and Canada improved 12% and Asia Pacific improved 11%.
Europe decreased 4% along with our rest of world category which is primarily comprised of Latin America the Middle East and Africa which decreased 7% as a result of our PO/MTBE manufacturing disruption.
Third-quarter revenue increased across the majority of our divisions compared to the prior year.
Polyurethanes is our largest division.
It made up 45% of our total revenue in the third quarter and grew 1%.
MDI urethanes revenue increased 8% which more than offset the negative impact from the PO/MTBE manufacturing disruption.
Performance products revenue decreased 2% due to the sale of our European surfactants business.
In advanced materials and textile effects higher average selling prices offset the impact of walking away from certain low-margin business.
Sales revenue for advanced materials was flat while revenues for textile effects increased 12%.
Pigments revenues increased 3% as a result of higher sales volumes which grew 6%.
Our total sales revenue decreased 3% in the third quarter this year compared to last quarter.
All sales regions were down with the exception of Asia Pacific which was flat.
Our average selling price was also flat.
Sales revenue decreased in all our divisions with the exception of polyurethanes where MDI urethanes revenue increased 5% more than offsetting the negative impact from the PO/MTBE manufacturing disruption.
Slide 10 – at the end of the quarter we had approximately $1.4 billion of cash in unused borrowing capacity.
During the quarter we generated $173 million of cash from improvements in working capital.
Improvements in the fourth quarter are expected to be more modest as we prepare for our PO/MTBE maintenance beginning in the first quarter.
In August of this year we increased the capacity of our revolving credit facility by $200 million to $600 million.
During the quarter we experienced a $6 million decrease in EBITDA as a result of unallocated foreign currency exchange losses attributable to the decline in the value of the euro versus the US dollar.
During the quarter we spent $137 million on capital expenditures.
We expect to spend approximately $550 million on capital expenditures in 2014 including $50 million in the first quarter for the newly acquired Rockwood businesses and the Augusta Georgia color pigments facility which is under construction.
We expect to spend approximately $525 million on base capital expenditures in 2015 net of partner contributions and including approximately $75 million for the Rockwood businesses.
In addition in 2015 we will spend approximately $100 million combined on our new Chinese MDI facility the completion of the Augusta Georgia pigments facility and replacement of the Rockwood IT systems.
During the quarter assets from our 1999 ICI acquisition became fully depreciated.
Including the impact from the newly acquired Rockwood businesses we expect our fourth-quarter depreciation to be approximately $105 million.
Our adjusted effective income tax rate for the third quarter 2014 was 29%.
During the quarter we made elections on our US tax returns from 2008 through 2013 which allowed us to utilize substantially all of our US foreign tax credits.
As a result of utilizing these assets that have been subject to evaluation allowance we recognized a one-time income tax benefit of $94 million which we adjusted out of our earnings.
We expect our full-year 2014 adjusted effective tax rate to be approximately 30% including the impact of the Rockwood acquisition.
We plan on opportunistically taking advantage of the low interest rate environment and refinancing higher cost debt as practical.
Peter? Thank you Kimo.
Let's turn to slide number 11.
This past quarter subtracting the $30 million one-time operating disruptions proved to be one of the strongest quarters on record yet we still see plenty of opportunity for improvement.
Since the end of the third quarter we've seen a great deal of equity market volatility with our own stock seeing drops and rebounds far greater than what market conditions warrant.
While we're still in the early weeks of the fourth quarter with the exception of our pigments division I am not seeing any fall-off that is materially different from what we would normally see going into a seasonally slow part of the year.
Asia's growth has slowed but it still continues to be a growing market with plenty of opportunities and one where we are still importing products to meet growing demand.
North America demand continues to be strong across all of our divisions.
At the present time Europe has shown signs of slight growth but for the most part continues to be as it has been for the past 2 or 3 years quite lethargic.
I'm not saying these economic conditions are not without their risk.
However we simply do not see the market conditions that we read about in the headlines.
The one exception to this is our TiO2 business in Europe.
While this is a product that used to be considered a leading economic indicator I see it being more sensitive to inventories and pricing than overall GDP.
While I'm not happy with the present margins and pricing I do think we are hitting the bottom of pricing as we close out 2014.
In the fourth quarter for our entire company we will see our usual seasonal softness which historically has meant a 20% to 25% decrease in EBITDA.
A few weeks ago we successfully completed the acquisition of Rockwood's performance additives and specialty titanium dioxide businesses.
As we've now had an opportunity to visit all of our sites associates and many of our customers we feel stronger about this business than ever before.
Regardless of market conditions our combined pigments businesses will be stronger a year from now than they are today.
We're confident in our ability to deliver $130 million in annual synergies and more than $50 million in working capital savings by the middle of 2016.
With market conditions where they are I fully expect for us to be even more aggressive than we have committed to the market.
Having purchased this business for approximately 5 times EBITDA before synergies and 3 times post synergies this acquisition will be extremely accretive to shareholders.
Over the past 18 months this management team has been successful in turning around our advanced materials and textile effects businesses at a time when market conditions did not give us any help.
I feel that this is a very similar opportunity if not larger.
Earlier this year in March at our investor day we laid out our plans to deliver approximately $2 billion of EBITDA within the next 2 to 3 years.
Integrating the Rockwood business is a key component to our value-creation plans.
Relative to current earnings the acquisition provides a significant step change and future earnings potential.
In addition we have a number of projects that will fuel our growth and drive our earnings to a much higher level.
Our EPS for the last 12 months was approximately $2.10.
However we can see a pathway to deliver approximately $3.75 of EPS to our shareholders in the next 2 to 3 years as we continue to see improvements across all of our divisions.
Most of these improvements are within our control.
2014 is shaping up to be a great year for us.
But as I said at the beginning of my remarks we still have plenty of room for improvements.
With that I'll turn the call back to Kurt.
Thank you Peter.
Denise we'd like to take some questions.
Will you explain the procedures for Q&amp;A and then open the line? [Operator instructions] Our first question comes from Bob Koort with Goldman Sachs.
Good morning.
This is Neal Sangani on for Bob.
A question on TiO2 and following up on your comments on Europe are you seeing any changes in export behavior out of China impacting that market as well? No I wouldn't say that materially we're seeing a lot of export coming out of Asia that's really impacting the market.
As you look at where export business has grown over the last couple of years coming out of Asia it's mostly going to APAC.
And what we're seeing going into the European market today isn't materially different from what we were seeing two 3 years ago in the business.
I wouldn't say that's materially having an impact on the business.
I'd say the biggest area is around pricing and the larger producers you see outside of Asia frankly.
And I'd just add that we're not seeing U.S.
imports into Europe either.
Obviously higher-priced market in the U.S.
So either Asia or US imports into Europe are pretty consistent with historical trends.
I think it's always difficult to call the bottom of the market.
I my prepared remarks I talked about being at the bottom of the market on pricing and demand.
As I just anecdotally speak with customers and speak within our own management I think that with a softer European economy I think that many of the buyers of TiO2 are hesitant to be buying at this time.
I think that inventories by and large across the board are thin going downstream to our customers and so forth.
Again I think that as we look at the pricing and the supply/demand most of the European market is determined by European suppliers and people that are selling in to the European market.
Great thanks for the color.
And then in advanced materials great margins there.
You closed some units last year.
Have you now annualized most of the margin benefit? Or your ongoing mix improvements is it still suggesting some upside from here? I think most all of the improvements that we achieved in cost cutting and getting out of the lower-cost margins are reflected in our third-quarter numbers.
I think that those are – for that seasonality effected and supply and demand and so forth I think that's a pretty representative quarter as to where we ought to be in the strongest time of demand for the year.
Great thanks.
Our next question comes from P.J.
Juvekar with Citi.
Good morning.
Peter if you take a step back your volume EBITDA really hasn't grown in 2 years.
It peaked in 2012 and then it has been flat to slightly down each year.
Can you talk about reasons behind that and why do you think EBITDA will turn around next year and begin to grow when we have all this capacity coming online in China? We do have capacity coming in China.
We also see quite a bit of growth coming on in China and the pricing that's coming on China.
As I look at the opportunities around MDI urethane performance we continue to do well in that particular business.
I continue to see growth in the earnings in MDI and MDI-related downstream businesses and so forth.
So I would continue to be quite optimistic about MDI and where it's going.
P.J.
if you go back all the way to 2009 – if you go back 6 years – each year consistently our urethanes MDI urethanes business has improved.
So again 2014 over 2013 by a significant amount.
Roughly 10% year-to-date EBITDA improvement on the urethane side.
So 6 years of consistent improvement.
What we've had is some PO/MTBE noise.
PO/MTBE when you adjust for the outage is pretty flat with last year.
Okay thank you.
And Kimo you talked about cash flow.
I think in the last quarter you said you'll begin to see working capital release.
We saw some good positive free cash flow this quarter.
What is your expectation for 2014 and how do you see that progressing next year? As you know working capital is volumes and price and raw materials certainly are a variable that is hard to peg for next year.
For this year we will see some more improvement in the fourth quarter.
There will be roughly $40 million worth of inventory build for our propylene oxide MTBE turnaround in the first quarter.
That build will be in the fourth quarter so that will offset some of the gains we'll have.
But we won't see the same kind of benefit in working capital in the fourth quarter that we saw in the third quarter even though that seasonally is usually our best working capital quarter.
Again because of the PO business.
In 2015 I think we'll start to see some benefits in the Rockwood working capital.
You remember nearly half of our purchase price was net working capital there.
And we think we're going to be able to improve by $60 million in working capital just on the Rockwood side.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from James Sheehan with SunTrust.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
Just wondering if you could give us your broader thoughts on oil prices and the impact on some of your feedstocks like butane.
Do you see the drop in oil prices as overall a positive or negative for Huntsman over the next year? For Huntsman almost categorically across the board assuming we don't see – I'm more concerned about severe volatility both up and down than necessarily higher or lower.
But by and large we benefit by lower oil prices.
As butane prices drop benzene prices all of our major raw materials related to the price of oil we are going to see a fall-off in our raw materials.
As we see a fall-off in our raw materials most of the products that we produce as I look across the gambit – MDI armines our epoxies and so forth – most of the products we produce are operating in the high 80%s or the low 90% capacity utilization.
So with falling raw materials you're going to be able to grab some of that additional margin.
I would think that falling raw materials is something that by and large ought to be something that's positive for us and certainly will help our working capital as well.
Thanks.
And could you also give us your sense of where MDI operating rates are today in each region of the world? I think that we're probably region by region I think that we'd probably be around 90%-ish when you look at the North American markets.
I think that you're probably looking at in the European market you're probably less than that.
And Asia I think you're probably in the high 80%s pushing 90%.
It's a tough one for us to get a handle on because so much of our MDI is not sold as MDI.
We sell very little actual MDI.
We're selling more and more downstream derivatives.
So as we look at capacity utilization we're looking at the utilization the impact of that 2 or 3 steps further down the chain as we look at formulations and systems and so forth.
Our objective is to see where capacity utilization has less impact on the business than perhaps it did in the last cycle.
But I would say globally I think the market is somewhere around 90% give or take 1 or 2 points on either side.
Regionally US has a bit of a tighter feel to it.
Asia feels about that way and Europe is probably a bit sluggish in the high 80%s.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from Kevin McCarthy with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Good morning.
Peter you referenced your 7 TiO2 facilities in Europe and the softer regional volumes there in the quarter.
If you did decide to go ahead with some consolidations would the benefits be above and beyond your synergy target of $130 million related to the Rockwood deal or is that something that you have baked in? The $130 million did not include any plant closures so that would be something that would be above and beyond the $130 million.
Okay.
And then switching gears on the polyurethane side it seems we have quite a lot of moving parts these days.
You referenced the seasonality MTBs oil-linked.
You've had your own outage.
I think Shell has had an outage in Europe.
If you boil all that down what is your expectation for the fourth-quarter trend versus the third quarter? When you adjust for the outage – well if you don't adjust for the outage in the third quarter it will look an awful lot like what we had in the third quarter – flat.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then as a final maybe clarifying question you referenced the step-down in depreciation related to I suppose the 15-year anniversary of your 1999 ICI deal.
Can we annualize that number into 2015? So should D be running about 420 or so next year? You would expect in the fourth quarter depreciation would be roughly $105 million – $96 million in the Huntsman businesses which was the third-quarter number and then another $9 million for the Rockwood businesses.
Obviously that's subject to evaluation that we have to do here in 2015 but roughly $9 or $10 million for the Rockwood businesses.
So roughly $105 million for the quarter and that's a good number to annualize for next year.
Great thank you.
Our next question comes from Hassan Ahmed with Alembic Global.
Good morning Peter.
Couple of questions about titanium dioxide.
First and foremost I think you talked about your inventories being around the mid $50 millions which pretty much seems flattish with Q2 levels.
Where exactly do you see inventory levels for the entire industry? That used to be something that was pretty well known throughout the industry that is just not known today.
I assume that it's probably pretty similar to ours but I just really have no way of knowing.
We used to participate in a survey by industry participants but as part of the antitrust litigation settlement we all agreed not to do that anymore.
So there's no visibility across the industry.
Okay fair enough.
Then you talked about the Rockwood contribution or the Rockwood side of the business generating around if I remember correctly $37 million in EBITDA.
That was ex of $5 million charge.
So that's around $42 million I think relative to $50 million in Q2.
So that business seemed to be far more resilient.
Can you talk a bit about the volume side of things within the Rockwood side of assets? Did you see similar European volume declines there? Or were they more resilient than call it the legacy Huntsman pigment business in Europe? As you remember Hassan that business's mix is a little different and they have more specialty businesses.
Their European business actually was up a couple of percentage points versus ours being down.
We don't think that is necessarily reflective of the overall industry given again the niches that they participate in.
But the business globally looks a lot like ours outside of Europe in terms of volumes.
Fair enough.
And one final one again on the TiO2 side of things.
Peter you sounded a bit positive in terms of bottoming out titanium dioxide pricing obviously very cognizant of the fact that Q2 is a seasonally weak reporter.
But one of the fares of this is that pricing for pigment may not bottom out till the pricing for ore bottoms out.
So what are your views about that? And again this is across ilmenite and rutile and the like for the overall industry.
Not being a big rutile buyer I'm not sure that I probably as am well equipped to answer that question as to the impact that rutile buyers have in the industry right now.
A lot of them seem to be really content with falling margins.
I really can't answer that.
On the ilmenite side prices have been low for ilmenite ores and I think there's going to be continued downward pressure on those ores.
Understood.
Thanks so much guys.
Our next question comes from Laurence Alexander with Jefferies.
Hi this is George d'Angelo on for Laurence this morning.
Are you guys seeing end-of-year destocking initiatives by customers starting any earlier than normal this year? I wouldn't say anything that would raise awareness.
Typically as we track our order patterns division by division day by day compared to what we saw a year ago we're not seeing anything that would say that there's any sort of destocking earlier this year than took place last year.
Okay thanks.
And I know it's not a huge part of your business but enhanced oil recovery with the lower oil price can you talk about trends what you're seeing there? And just is there a peg for oil price where your products become a lot less important to the process? Thanks.
Again I read about there being a migration out of North Dakota and the Bakken and Eagle Ford and so forth.
I'm just not seeing it in our sales to these areas.
When somebody makes a multi million-dollar investment and they've got everything invested in an enhanced oil recovery project a fall-off of 30 days in oil pricing is not going to materially change that business.
They're not going to start shutting wells down the first sign of an oil fall-off.
Obviously a year or so into this there might be something.
But I think when you look at advanced oil recovery that's usually some of the lower cost of bringing oil out of the ground.
Certainly it's cheaper than the fracking.
We sell more in to the enhanced oil recovery than we do into the fracking side of the business.
I just don't see it in the demand trends that we're seeing right now as we look at fourth quarter.
That's not to say it can't change but I don't see it.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Roger Spitz with Bank of America.
Can you provide a sense of your base epoxy resin EBITDA and how that looked year over year excluding the shutdown plant and the effects of the shutting down of those 2 facilities? Base epoxy resins on an EBITDA basis continues to be a negative EBITDA business for us.
It looks an awful lot like last year on a per-unit basis.
But on an absolute basis the loss is lower simply because we've shut down the Chennai and Pamplona businesses.
So the loss has narrowed but still a loss nonetheless.
I think now you're a net buyer if I'm not mistaken of LER.
Can you describe the LER price levels versus year over year and quarter over quarter? Sorry I don't have that in front of me Roger.
That's probably something we ought to come back to you on.
You're talking about base liquid epoxy resin prices year-over-year comparisons? I don't have that unfortunately.
Okay.
That's fine.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from Mike Ritzenthaler with Piper Jaffray.
Good morning.
Just wanted to ask about to what extent the lower margin pruning is still a factor in advanced materials and textile effects as well.
We've seen a couple quarters now sequentially where volumes are lighter but pricing is well up.
Could these dynamics still be playing out in say 2 quarters? I think that as we look as price pruning on the low end of the business and that would be around the basic liquid resins and so forth I think in both textile effects and advanced materials we've really seen the end of this.
And the restructuring is pretty much done and the value uplift is ongoing.
I see less and less quote walking away from various businesses and so forth.
That almost happens simultaneous – as you shut down facilities you'll sell out your inventory there might be a drag of a quarter or 2 in some of those areas.
But I don't see especially as we move into 2015 that you'll see a material amount of either advanced materials of either epoxy or textile products that we'll be walking away from.
Some of the pruning we've been doing on the textile side relates to some of the raw material volatility too in H acids specifically which has made some of the pricing and margin in some of the specific colors – I think black for example has been commoditized and margins have dropped to where we just didn't want to participate in some of those basic colors.
Okay that makes sense.
And then I just wanted to make sure I heard correctly – on the outage for 1Q 2015 it sounds like there may have been a slight benefit versus previous expectations to the 1Q shutdown the turnaround impact from the unplanned outages this quarter.
Is that fair? Again we see $60 million of EBITDA impact in the quarter.
Still $150 million cash.
So if there was a little bit of movement it was really – EBITDA impact moving to maintenance capital that will be amortized.
Okay thanks very much.
Our next question comes from Frank Mitsch with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC</strong> Good morning gentlemen.
Peter you gave a nice breakdown of how you expected the fourth quarter to play out.
And you said I think seasonally you typically see a 20% to 25% EBITDA step-down seasonally.
If I think about looking at the third quarter it makes a little bit of a difference if you're looking at it from a normalized adding back that $30 million of outage in the polyurethane's business versus not it makes a difference I think of like $310 million adding in Rockwood or $325 million.
Just to set the base line are you looking at the former or the latter? I would add the $30 million back in.
LLC</strong> Terrific.
And speaking on the polyurethane's business when you were talking about it you also mentioned that I think you had insulation North American insulation up 20% and composite wood products up 9%.
Obviously the housing data wouldn't suggest that level of jump.
Can you expand upon that and how we should think about that playing out in the future as well? Again as I look at it among housing start-ups I look at it around product substitution and so forth as I look at our last quarters I look at the orders thus far into the fourth quarter around MDI polyurethane's and so forth Frank I'm not seeing anything that would tell me – yes things aren't going through the roof in the fourth quarter but I'm not seeing any slowdown that wouldn't be typical of seasonality.
If you look at the growth rates in insulation remember we have a large commercial business but also we're seeing a lot of substitution on the residential side with spray foam that's substituting fiberglass.
So you may be seeing higher growth rates than underlying housing because of that substitution.
LLC</strong> All right that makes sense.
Thanks so much.
Our next question comes from John Roberts with UBS.
Good morning.
Sequentially it looked like pricing was up overall for the Company $33 million if I look at slide 8.
But when I look at the individual segments only textiles had an up sequential local price.
So how do you get the $33 million for the entire Company positive when everything except textiles look like it went down in local pricing sequentially? I don't know the answer to that.
In terms of the growth the numbers there it excludes some tolling volumes and those tolling volumes may push the variance analysis one way or another when they're excluded from the volume data.
Have you given a timeframe when we should expect the first filing with the SEC around the TiO2 IPO? We said we would do something within 2 years of the closing so the clock is ticking.
Obviously we'd like to see capital markets we'd like to see the TiO2 underlying business trend positive.
I think we want the debt markets to be strong as well because obviously we'll be placing nonrecourse debt on that entity.
So there are several markets that we're watching and we're getting ready with carve out audits and so forth.
Wouldn't you like a placeholder filing just to have so you're ready in case market conditions change quickly? That seems like a good idea.
Denise this is Kurt.
Do we have any more questions in the queue at this point in time? At this time we have no further questions.
Very good.
We want to thank everyone for joining us on the call today.
A replay of this call will be available later on this afternoon.
And of course if anyone has additional questions please feel free to reach out to us.
Thank you once again.
This concludes the conference.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day everyone.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q4 2014 Huntsman Corporation earnings conference call.
My name is Alison and I will be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
We will conduct a question-and-answer session towards the end of the conference.
As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
And now I would like I turn the call over to Mr.
Kurt Ogden Vice President Investor Relations and Finance.
Please proceed sir.
Investor Relations</strong> Thank you Alison and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us on our earnings call this morning.
Joining us on the call are Jon Huntsman our Founder and Executive Chairman; Peter Huntsman President and CEO; and Kimo Esplin Executive Vice President and CFO.
This morning before the market opened we released our earnings for the fourth quarter and full year 2014 via press release and posted it on our website huntsman.com.
We also posted a set of slides on our website which we intend to use on the call this morning in the discussion of our results.
During this call we may make statements about our projections or expectations for the future.
All such statements are forward-looking statements and while they reflect our current expectations they involve risks and uncertainties and are not guarantees of future performance.
You should review our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for more information regarding the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these projections or expectations.
We do not plan on publicly updating or revising any forward-looking statements during the quarter.
In addition we will also refer to non-GAAP financial measures such as EBITDA adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income or loss.
You can find reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in our earnings release which has been posted on our website at huntsman.com.
We have chosen to include comparisons of our results to prior periods on a pro forma basis adjusted to include the acquisition of the Performance Additives and Titanium Dioxide businesses of Rockwood Holdings and the related sell of our TR52 product line used in printing inks to Henan Billions Chemicals.
We believe this helps understand trends specifically within our Pigments and Additives division.
In our earnings release this morning we reported fourth quarter 2014 revenue of $2.951 billion.
Adjusted EBITDA of $292 million and adjusted earnings per share of $0.33 per diluted share.
On a pro forma basis our revenue was $2.937 billion and adjusted EBITDA was $300 million.
I will now turn the call over to Peter Huntsman our President and CEO.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Kurt.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for taking the time to joining us.
Let's turn to slide number three.
Adjusted EBITDA for our Polyurethanes division in the fourth quarter of 2014 was $171 million.
Compared to the prior year EBITDA was essentially unchanged for both our MDI urethanes and PO/MTBE businesses.
Our Polyurethanes division has the most absolute foreign currency translation exposure to the euro on an EBITDA basis of all of our divisions.
In the fourth quarter our MDI business was negatively impacted by approximately $7 million as a result of the stronger U.S.
dollar compared to the prior year.
MDI volume growth was lower than the full year average of 5%; lower fourth-quarter growth was primarily the result of destocking effects as some end market customers anticipated price relief combined with a weaker economic climate in Europe.
North America continues to be a bright spot as MDI volumes grew at strong rates across all of our major end markets.
Asian growth was comparable to North America although the construction related end markets were less robust.
The global automotive market remained strong which grew almost 20% compared to the prior year.
The primary raw material in the manufacture of MDI is benzene; we purchase approximately 200 million gallons of benzene annually.
Benzene is a derivative of the oil refining process and as the cost of oil has decreased so has the cost of benzene.
As we've indicated in many of our end markets we provide differentiated customer-specific products and as such we expect near term margin expansion from the decline in benzene.
In addition PO/MTBE pricing is highly correlated to the cost of premium unleaded gasoline which has decreased.
Lower PO/MTBE margins will partially offset the benefit of lower benzene costs.
As a reminder we started scheduled maintenance on our PO/MTBE facility in Port Neches Texas on January 26 we estimate the facility will be offline for approximately 60 days with an EBITDA impact of approximately $60 million.
This amount includes lost revenue and unabsorbed fixed cost for the period in addition the maintenance cost will be approximately $90 million.
However these costs are capitalized and amortized over approximately 5 years as we've done in the past.
The total estimated cost of the maintenance will be approximately $150 million.
Let's turn to slide number four.
In the fourth quarter our Performance Products division recorded adjusted EBITDA of $111 million compared to $116 million in the prior year.
It should be noted however that as a result of our successful efforts to reduce our investment in inventory we incurred additional charges of $5 million compared to last year from inventory revaluation costs this year.
We sold our European commodity surfactant business including our Lavera France facility in the second quarter of 2014 and closed our Patrica Italy facility in October.
We believe our refocus on differentiated surfactants will improve our annual EBITDA by approximately $20 million beginning in 2015.
Excluding the impact from the sale of our European surfactants business our fourth quarter 2014 volumes decreased 4% within this division.
Higher sales volumes for amines and maleic were more than offset by lower sales volume for surfactants and other ethylene oxide derivatives.
Many have inquired about the impact of lower priced oil on this division.
It's worth noting that most of our oilfield applications are used in oil production not in drilling.
As a result we don't expect much of an impact on demand.
Lower priced oil will reduce our U.S.
Gulf Coast ethylene oxide manufacturing cost advantage relative to the rest of the world.
However we believe that this impact will more than be offset by expanding margins in ethylene oxide derivatives and other downstream product.
Earlier this month we announced the start of construction on the expansion of our polyetheramines facility in Singapore which we expect to be operational in the second half of 2016.
This expansion will help us meet the growing demands of our customers in the Asia Pacific region where annual volume is set to grow at at least 10% in the coming decade.
Our capital expenditure is expected to be approximately $80 million with expected annual EBITDA of $30 million when the facility is sold out.
Let's turn to slide number five.
In the fourth quarter adjusted EBITDA in our Advanced Materials division was $43 million which represented a record fourth quarter for this business and an improvement of $10 million compared to the prior year of $33 million.
Key to this improvement has been our success in the aerospace market where our epoxy resins are used in composites compared to the prior year EBITDA in this market improved $6 million.
This important market has the highest margin within the division and represents more than a third of its earnings.
We are encouraged by the long-term trends as new production rates – as production rates for new generation aircraft such as the Boeing 787 and the Airbus 350 continue to ramp up.
We've also seen improved earnings in our epoxies used in automotive oilfield drilling and epoxy coatings.
Favorable business conditions in these applications led to a year-over-year increase in EBITDA of $3 million in our transportation industrial and coatings construction markets.
Let's turn to slide number six.
Our Textile Effects division reported adjusted EBITDA of $6 million in the fourth quarter.
As a result of our successful efforts to reduce our investment in inventory we incurred additional charges of $12 million from inventory revaluation costs in the fourth quarter compared to the prior year.
Our average selling price increased 9% compared to the prior year as a result of our focus on higher margin products and increased raw material costs.
We are encouraged by strong consumer confidence readings in the U.S.
and expect to benefit from improved demand in 2015.
Throughout 2015 we expect tighter environmental regulations and better control of supply chains by major retail brands.
As we're a market leader in innovation and research we should see better than GDP growth in sales and expanded margins for these reasons.
Now let's turn to slide number seven.
Our Pigments and Additives division earned $9 million of adjusted EBITDA in the fourth quarter.
On a pro forma basis adjusted EBITDA decreased $43 million compared to the prior year.
Our non-TiO2 portion of this division earned $14 million and was essentially unchanged compared to the prior year.
Our TiO2 business lost $4 million in the quarter as business conditions deteriorated in Europe throughout the quarter.
As it relates to profitability our TiO2 business is facing two primary challenges right now.
First there is an imbalance between global supply and demand.
The supply demand imbalance is amplified in Europe where the majority of our TiO2 business resides.
Second European prices for TiO2 are at unsustainable levels driven predominantly the weakness of the euro.
Price differences between major sales regions are currently more than historical averages notably between Europe and North America.
In response to these challenges we've taken the following actions.
On February 12 we announced a plan to shut down the black end of our Calais France facility effectively reducing European TiO2 supply by approximately 100 000 tons representing 13% of our European TiO2 capacity.
The black end of the facility represents approximately 75% of the costs of the facility.
We expect to be finished with this shutdown by the summer of 2015.
Further we've accelerated the timing for savings delivered on the original $130 million of synergies program and we expect to deliver approximately $60 million of savings in 2015.
With the synergies and restructuring programs combined we're projecting more than $75 million of cost savings in 2015 and combined annual cost benefits exceeding $165 million by the second half of 2016.
In addition to our aggressive cost-based actions we have taken action to recover margins by recently communicating to all of our European TiO2 customers a price increase effective April 1 2015 of €150 per metric ton.
We believe that the TiO2 industry remains under pressure impacting minerals and pigments producers alike particularly in China where there is a noticeable scale back in expansion plans capacity moderation and a consolidation shakeout.
Exports to Western markets from China remains essentially flat over the past four years at approximately 150 000 tons per annum to Europe and the U.S.
combined.
Furthermore as industry experts TZMI have recently noted the shakeout of Chinese TiO2 producers should lead to a net reduction of Chinese capacity in 2015 and beyond.
In summary we believe that the TiO2 industry will cycle upwards and that we are taking aggressive and effective actions to improve the profitability of this business.
Before sharing some concluding thoughts I would like to turn a few minutes over to Kimo Esplin our Chief Financial Officer.
Thanks Peter.
Let's turn to slide eight.
In the fourth quarter of 2014 compared to the prior year our adjusted EBITDA decreased to $292 million from $313 million.
The decrease was primarily the result of $43 million in lower TiO2 earnings approximately $11 million foreign currency translation headwind and approximately $9 million in higher inventory revaluation costs.
Sales volumes decreased in large part due to the de-selection of lower margin businesses.
Average selling prices improved across the majority of our divisions which more than offset higher raw material costs.
Our full year EBITDA increased $127 million from $1.213 billion in 2013 to $1.340 billion in 2014.
Our average selling prices improved more than offsetting lower sales volumes higher raw material costs and negative impact from foreign currency translation and higher inventory revaluation costs.
Let's go to slide nine.
During the quarter the impact from foreign currency created an approximate $11 million earnings headwind compared to the prior year.
This was primarily the result of a stronger U.S.
dollar against major European currencies.
Each of our businesses has different foreign currency translation exposure.
In an effort to provide greater transparency there is a table in the lower left quadrant of the slide which lays out the divisional exposure to certain primary European currencies.
This will continue to be a headwind as we move into 2015 as the euro has now fallen to $1.14 and the Swiss franc has appreciated to $1.07.
More specifically if rates hold where they are for the rest of the quarter we think that in the first quarter we could see foreign currency headwinds of approximately $10 million on a sequential basis and approximately $20 million compared to the prior year.
Bottom-line as a company we are net long the euro and net short the British pound and Swiss franc overall net long positioned on European currencies.
As a general rule of thumb a 10% change in the U.S.
dollar against these primary currencies will result in approximately $40 million annual EBITDA impact and $20 million annual impact on net income.
We continue to place greater emphasis on free cash flow.
We have aggressively made efforts to reduce our working capital investment.
We successfully reduced our investment in inventories by approximately $90 million in 2014 and as a result we recognized higher inventory revaluation costs compared to the prior year.
In the fourth quarter the change in inventory revaluation costs in EBITDA compared to the prior year was approximately $9 million representing another meaningful headwind during the quarter.
Slide 10 at the end of the quarter we had approximately $1.6 billion of cash and unused borrowing capacity.
In November 2014 we issued $400 million of 5.125% senior notes due 2022.
We used the proceeds to redeem all of our outstanding 8.625% senior subordinated notes due 2020 pay associated accrued interest and for general corporate purposes.
We expect to save approximately $12 million in annual interest expense as a result of this refinancing.
We intend to opportunistically pursue additional refinancing of higher interest rate debt as practical.
On October 1 2014 we successfully completed the acquisition of the Performance Additives and Titanium Dioxide businesses of Rockwood for $1 billion in cash subject to certain purchase price adjustments.
The acquisition was funded by a new $1.2 billion term loan due 2021.
During the quarter we spent $250 million on capital expenditures of which $48 million was invested in the former Rockwood businesses.
During 2014 we spent $601 million on capital expenditures.
We expect to spend approximately $525 million on base capital expenditures in 2015 net of partner contributions including approximately $75 million for the Rockwood businesses.
In addition in 2015 we will spend approximately $100 million combined on our new Chinese MDI facility the completion of Augusta Georgia pigments facility and replacement of the Rockwood IT systems.
Now that we've completed the preliminary allocation of the purchase accounting for Rockwood Performance Additives and Titanium Dioxide businesses we expect our annual depreciation and amortization rate to be approximately $450 million.
Our adjusted effective income tax rate for the fourth quarter and full year 2014 was 34% and 30% respectively.
We expect our long-term adjusted effective tax rate to be approximately 30%.
We expect our 2015 adjusted effective tax rate to be slightly higher as a result of reduced earnings from our Pigments and Additives division which has a meaningful concentration of businesses in countries primarily Europe where we have tax valuation allowances which prevent us from recording a tax benefit on pre-tax losses.
2014 cash generation followed historical seasonal patterns working capital increased in the first half of the year and decreased in the second half.
In the fourth quarter we generated $210 million from lower working capital and $68 million for the full year.
As we work toward improving our free cash flow generation I want to highlight a few items that should be considered in 2015.
We believe we will be able to generate an improvement in our working capital investment by approximately $100 million.
We have a number of planned maintenance projects that will take place most notable of course is our PO/MTBE facility in the first quarter which will consume approximately $90 million of cash.
However the total company cash flow for maintenance versus amortization expense in the P&amp;L will only be approximately $40 million.
Pension funding in excess of expense will be approximately $100 million and restructuring payments will be approximately $200 million.
In spite of an elevated level of cash requirements in 2015 with approximately $300 million higher than normalized capital expenditures and restructuring activities we expect to have positive free cash flow for the year and expect these initiatives to be largely complete by the end of the year.
Peter? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Kimo.
2014 ended a very strong year for our company.
Our differentiated businesses had their best year by more than $200 million of adjusted EBITDA in spite of meaningful FX and raw material volatility as well as destocking throughout fourth quarter we finished the year with a strongest differentiated EBITDA in our history.
While it is early in this year as we look at the gives and takes we are going through we see our differentiated businesses consisting of MDI Polyurethanes Performance Products – it includes our amines maleic surfactants our epoxy and textile dyes and chemicals all doing better than their record 2014 performance.
No one here is happy with the condition of the TiO2 industry but we are in a position where I believe conditions will bottom out in the first quarter of 2015 and improve throughout the year.
Our confidence in improving TiO2 profitability are threefold.
First we committed to deliver $130 million of Rockwood synergies in the next three years with $40 million of that in 2015.
We are now saying that based on work thus far completed we plan to increase that to over $140 million in the next two years and $60 million of that will be realized in 2015 an accretion of $20 million compared to our original plan.
Second this week we announced the closure of nearly 100 000 metric tons of TiO2 capacity in Calais France.
While site closures are never something happy we're happy to do we will tighten our capacity utilization by 13% something that is badly needed in today's market condition.
This closure will save us approximately $15 million this year and $35 million thereafter and we will still have available capacity to serve 100% of our global requirements.
Third we announced earlier this week a €150 per ton increase on all European TiO2 grades.
This will impact over half of our volumes.
Even after the implementation of this increase European TiO2 prices will still be below North American prices and in need of further initiatives.
When we read the publicly available information regarding global or in pigments margins of the entire supply chain we simply will not continue with business as usual.
Between our Rockwood integration cost-cutting and our Calais black end closure we expect savings in excess of $75 million in 2015 alone.
Effective April 1 we will be implementing further margin expansion moves with our price increase of €150 with over 350 000 metric tons of volumes that we presently service in Europe.
We can't control the TiO2 industry but what we can control is our own capacity and cost structure.
We're moving aggressively to do as much as we can.
A year ago at this time we told the market that in 2014 we would exceed 2013 EBITDA.
We did this by over $100 million in spite of tremendous year-end volatility.
As we look out over 2015 we expect a year of strong performance with our non-pigments business and continuous improvement in our Pigments and Additives business.
I believe we're well positioned for the future.
We've recently completed our five-year planning review with senior leaders of our company and we are well on our way to delivering $2 billion of EBITDA and $700 million of free cash flow.
With that I'll turn the time back over to Kurt.
Investor Relations</strong> Thank you Peter.
Alison will you explain the procedure for Q&amp;A and then open the line for questions please? Thank you very much sir.
Your first question comes from Bob Koort from Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed sir.
Thanks very much.
Good morning gentlemen.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Bob.
Good morning.
Peter I was wondering if you could talk a little bit in the MDI business in the fourth quarter did you see any benzene relief? And then how would you expect that to flow through during 2015? And can you help us size – you get some moving parts with the PO/MTBE outage which sounds like maybe it's a little bit bigger hit in the first quarter than before.
But of your $730 million of EBITDA in that segment can you give us some sense of what's MDI and other things and what's PO/MTBE? Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you Bob.
Yeah as we look at the pricing in the fourth quarter we saw average pricing for benzene in the fourth quarter was just under $4 a gallon.
That was down where our average price in the third quarter was around $5 a gallon.
So we started to see the falloff in benzene prices take place in the fourth quarter.
We currently see benzene today depending on where you're buying it around the world somewhere between $2 a gallon and $2.20 a gallon and that price does move every day.
I would note that we have a supply chain of about 75 days to 85 days from the time that you buy benzene somewhere around the world and we transport it we ship it you store it you put it into to nitrobenzene you then put it into aniline you're putting it through your MDI processes you're taking that to system houses and so forth.
So – and then you're ultimately selling that to a customer.
So from the time that we're buying $2 benzene today hypothetically in the market we're going to see the full impact of that probably sometime in the middle of the second quarter to the end of the second quarter – excuse me – even into the third – yeah the second quarter of this year.
And so when we think about that impact to the bottom line when we think about the impact in the fourth quarter I would think that the impact that we saw in benefit during the fourth quarter would probably be in the singular millions of dollars.
And so again depending on where that is in the supply chain.
I would expect that to obviously gradually start expanding in the second quarter and through the – the first quarter and throughout the second quarter and how much of that we actually keep? I think that's – I think it's going to be obviously a net benefit for us Bob.
But let's remember the last time that prices fell this suddenly in the market.
It was something of a disaster.
It was something of a disaster because of the massive destocking that took place and the demand wasn't there on the backend to be able to have any pricing support.
I think that as we look at the industry today the industry is operating depending on where you are around the world North America is probably I would guess in the 90% 91% capacity utilization.
Asia is probably in the high 80%.
I think there's a – the capacity on a global basis is such that we ought to be able to hold on to pricing.
We ought to be able to expand margins.
And then certainly as you get out towards the end of the year your price for MDI products will calibrate.
Some of the more commodity side of the MDI products will move down with the price of benzene.
Others of our MDI will move with the price of benzene because we have locked-in formula prices we've communicated in the past.
This is a smaller portion of our sales obviously.
And then we have a differentiated piece of our business where the raw materials make up a relatively smaller percentage of our overall cost and the cost of labor delivery service research other products that go into making that MDI systems product is going to be factored in as well.
So I guess what I'm saying is when you look across the board we think that as the price of benzene falls we ought to be able to capture that margin.
It will not be instantaneous as benzene falls.
And it will not be permanent.
And obviously any more than it would be a permanent hit on the business if benzene prices were to go up we'd be expected to get our finished prices up.
So I would think with the margin expansion here over the next quarter or two and that will gradually fall off at the end of the year but I think that the growth in the industry the expansion that we have taking place around the world the recent acquisitions and so forth that will continue to allow us to more permanently expand our EBITDA.
And Bob I apologize for that answer I wish I had a more concise a dollar for dollar customer for customer but I think that in the world of – this is volatile as it is we've tried to listen to what some of the other companies are doing.
There's just a lot of unknowns out there as far as our ability to hold up pricing and so forth.
I'm more optimistic today as I look at global demand than I would have been two or three months ago when prices were falling.
So I think again we take the gives and the takes of this.
Falling oil prices I believe will be a net plus for this company.
And from where I'm sitting today I continue to believe that.
Now I'm – I really apologize I forgot the second half of the question.
Well I was just asking the MDI business that you're rightfully proud of and which should show some progress gets obscured by the PO/MTBE component within polyurethane.
So can you give us some help in sizing those businesses so we can make a judgment on how important MDI is as you look forward and that – the penalty from the turnaround in PO/MTBE would be for 2015? Yeah.
So in 2015 the EBITDA hit from the turnaround is $60 million that's the same number we've been out with for a while so we haven't changed that.
And we're in the middle of that turnaround and everything is going well there.
If crude oil stays at kind of where it's at today there may be as much as another $50 million reduction in PO/MTBE profitability relative to the last couple of years.
So when you take sort of Peter's comments around urethane and PO/MTBE we think the urethane benefit from falling raw materials will offset the reduction in profitability in PO/MTBE because of lower crude oil prices net benefit if you set aside the turnaround of one-time impact in the year.
Got it.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Bob I also just say that as we look at our percentage of margin from MDI this year in 2015 we will see a higher percentage of our overall EBITDA from the combined businesses coming from MDI I think I'm just – I'm trying to look back the last couple of years we'll see a higher percentage coming from MDI than we've seen in the overall business probably ever.
Perhaps you have to go back 10 years or so the last MDI spike so this business is becoming more and more dependent on the MDI the differentiated the downstream.
And less so on the PO/MTBE.
I would just note that the PO/MTBE though much of the success of the PO/MTBE comes about because we have a home for the propylene oxides an integrated piece of our business it's a value-added component and it's more than just a big MTBE facility.
Thanks Bob.
Thank you.
The next question that comes from the line of Sabina Chatterjee from Wells Fargo.
Please proceed.
Hi good morning.
Just hitting in for Frank Mitsch today.
Just it sounds like between the puts and takes that you just talked about in polyurethanes that you're calling for EBITDA growth in 2015.
Just wanted to see if that was a fair assessment or is the outlook still uncertain given all the variables between FX and whether your competitors actually hold prices in MDI or what have you? No.
I think you're reading it right.
I think what we've said is is that again urethanes will offset any erosion in the PO/MTBE side but then you have the turnaround so we're really talking about an adjusted turnaround year.
So again if you adjust for the turnaround it would be up.
Okay.
And then on TiO2 obviously still struggling and now you've got the FX issue.
I just wanted to see how confident you are in making the near-term EBITDA targets of $225 million and $350 million for the legacy pigments business and the Rockwood businesses? Well...
What have you factored in as far as demand and pricing in that outlook? Listen Sabina we've talked about the legacy side of that and we're clearly not going to make that $200 million in 2015.
But I think it's a good number for the Rockwood businesses.
I think the Rockwood businesses are differentiated; there's non-TiO2 businesses in there.
And we think that business is capable of doing roughly $200 million in 2015.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sabina also when we look at those numbers around that $2 billion number I would say that where I'd have a little bit of heartburn getting to that $2 billion probably would be around as Kimo mentioned the legacy TiO2 business.
As I look at the $2 billion number though look at the Advanced Materials portion the Performance Products portion we've already met or exceeded the targets that we put out.
And I believe that those businesses over the course of the next year or two are going to continue to expand their EBITDA.
So we might be a little light on the TiO2 legacy side of the business.
Conversely when you look at the Performance Products the Advanced Materials I'd even throw in Textile Effects I would say that we should quite soundly beat the projections that we gave for the $2 billion.
So again I think that we still have a great deal of confidence in the $2 billion number.
It may not be exactly the way that we put it forth in March of this past year.
But I think that when we look at the overall composite we still feel very confident about that.
And I think that's – again Peter is talking about the $2 billion number and I think that's right.
I think we can even get to the $200 million legacy EBITDA in the timeframe we're talking about the $2 billion.
My comment was specifically around 2015 in our discussion when we bought the business that the legacy business would be $200 million of EBITDA.
I don't think we're going to get there in 2015 but I do think it's very doable in that two- to three-year timeframe that we talked about.
Okay.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from the line of Edlain Rodriguez from UBS.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Good morning guys.
Just one quick question on pigments again.
I mean Peter how confident are you that you're going to be able to get the price increase in Europe? I mean because after all this is not the first time that the industry has been trying to push prices.
So why the confidence that consumers will accept that price increase? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well we're now 72 hours into the price increase.
So yeah trying to say exactly how much of that we're going to get probably a bit too early to call something out one way or the other.
I am very confident though that we will get a large portion of this increase.
I base that simply on the fact that the economics or it's just simply impossible for this industry to continue at the losses that are being incurred in Europe.
If you look at the closures of our facility you look at the layoffs that have been publicly announced the losses that are being sustained by the mining industry and so forth that are supplying us ores; the lack of imports that are coming into Europe because of the low European pricing.
I think that when you factor all of these things together I can only speak of Huntsman's pricing discipline but this isn't something that we're going to try to get this is something simply that we have to get.
And we're prepared to walk away from volumes in some cases and so forth.
And just fundamentally the trend needs to start turning and moving the other direction.
And as far as Huntsman is concerned again we're ready to take as we've outlined some extreme measures to the see that this happens.
Even after – even after this happens we still – you look today European pricing for TiO2 is at or slightly below Asian pricing.
I mean there's zero incentive for anybody to be importing and pushing product into Europe and even after this price increase we still are going to be having to push up prices just to get on parity with the rest of the world.
So it's long overdue it's badly needed and it just has to take place.
And this will be the first of I think multiple initiatives.
If I could just add the dollar-denominated prices have fallen significantly because of the weakness in the euro and you'll remember our ore raw material costs are dollar denominated.
So this price increase largely just captures the reduction in dollar terms that we've seen from a weakening euro currency.
And I think based on that alone setting aside utilization rates it's justified and I think we will be successful just getting back to the differential we had in European and U.S.
dollar pricing in the third quarter.
That makes sense.
Another quick question on MDI.
I mean when you look at – there's still some skepticism about the sustainability of the benefits of lower benzene cost into some of the products.
And one thing we're trying to figure out so when oil prices were going up and benzene prices were going up did you experience a significant margin correction – or contraction in the differentiated businesses there? Because if you're going to see the benefit from lower cost then you must have seen some headwind from costs going up.
Yeah I mean we've talked in prior quarterly calls about the lag in our pricing on our differentiated side and our ability to get our prices up as benzene moved up.
So that's completely fair.
And I think if you listened to what Peter described we're going to keep margin as benzene falls but our component business and in our businesses that have pass-through contracts which is roughly 50% of our business we're going to see that benefit go away after 90 days or 120 days or something like that.
We're hopeful that longer term we can keep the most differentiated system business but in a big chunk of this business we keep that for just a short while.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Peter James Juvekar from Citi.
Please proceed.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Good morning.
Hi P.J.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> There's been a lot of discussion about this oil price.
Can you discuss this sort of segment by segment? Because what happens is in Polyurethanes MDI benefits but MTBE sort of gives some of it back.
So maybe can you just discuss at a segment level which segments where you think you can hold the benefit of low oil? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well yeah.
Let me try to just put this in very broad senses.
And P.J.
I would just note before I say anything that the ability to contain margin in falling prices is not necessarily of our company to control.
And the competition and competitors and so forth there are people out there that are willing to give up margin for market share and so forth and so on so – and what I'd say I just want to be absolutely clear.
What I'm say is I'm looking at the world from Huntsman's perspective and we've got other people out there that are obviously from their perspective perhaps of not looking necessarily to gain margin but to gain volume.
So you're going to see all sorts of industry dynamics of supply and demand within the same product grouping that will obviously confuse some of this.
But as I look at it on a broad basis here as I look at our Polyurethanes Performance Products and Advanced Materials we believe that we will see margin erosion taking place in our North American raw material feedstocks around ethane to ethylene.
So within our Performance Products on the upstream side the margin that we've been making on ethylene we will see that margin decrease.
I think that as we look at our Performance Products we will see our downstream businesses particularly our amines businesses where again we're selling more formulas we're selling technology we're selling more of a specialty type of a product we should see a margin recovery there and expansion there in pricing that should offset that.
So as we look at our forecast for 2015 again one end of that division is going to see lower margins we believe that throughout 2015 the rest of that division will more than make up for that.
I'd say the same thing about polyurethanes.
Again as you – if I strip out the T&amp;I if I strip out the outage that we have right now the maintenance that we have I believe that the expansion – the expanding margins the benefits of benzene prices and so forth that we're going to see in polyurethanes will more than offset the deterioration that we will see in margins in MTBE.
And again to what extent will we see that deterioration in MTBE I frankly don't know but we're just basing this on what we've seen in the past.
MTBE obviously is a product that changes hour by hour in its pricing and volumes but again what we've seen thus far this year I feel quite confident about that.
As I look at our Advanced Materials these in our Textile Effects businesses these are going to be less oil sensitive businesses and I think by and large they will benefit by having lower raw materials gives and takes.
So again I think that you will have an opportunity to expand margins in those businesses slightly throughout 2015.
So net-net as we look at the non-pigments businesses when I said earlier in the call that we expect a better 2015 than 2014 we base that on a couple of takes that will take place in – because of falling oil prices in MTBE and our ethylene margins offset by the gives that we believe we're going to be able to get in maintaining pricing and being able to pass lower costs through our system that will enable us to have a higher EBITDA for the year.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thank you for that.
And then just quickly you made an interesting comment about Chinese TiO2 exports I mean what do you think – is there a risk that if Chinese growth and construction slows down those guys – Chinese producers can export even more TiO2 in the future? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I think if you look at Chinese TiO2 and again that comment I believe and what I said earlier was a quote from a consultant.
So that wasn't necessarily my research and analysis that led to that.
But I think that as we look at the Chinese product that's coming into Europe where our biggest base is for TiO2 we just don't see this – I don't see the Chinese factor as being the reason why TiO2 prices are where they are today.
Perhaps a contributing part of it but it certainly isn't the primary factor.
As I look at the Chinese producers most of them have environmental issues; most of them have a cost structure that I think one of the big misnomers in North America is that the Chinese somehow are able to make TiO2 for next to nothing.
I think that there are some very competitive Chinese producers.
I think there are a lot of very small uncompetitive producers that in today's environment are shutting down.
And we have dealt and worked with some of the Chinese manufacturers who are – we are seeing larger facilities more competitive facilities and better technology.
But we're also seeing with the smaller producers that have high energy costs high logistics and poor quality I think that you're seeing a consolidation and in some cases the outright closure of some of that capacity.
So as we look throughout 2015 I'm not sure that you're going to see a great deal of net new capacity coming on in 2015 and even 2016 with what's being put into the ground there.
Again Peter said Asian prices are similar to European prices and we talked about $300 $350 a ton shipping and duty costs from Asia to Europe.
It is very unattractive for a Chinese producer to ship to Europe right now.
And we're not seeing imports increase in fact they've been stable for four years five years.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of James Sheehan from SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you.
Peter just on your outlook for the first quarter you've got this big outage that's you said is going to take $60 million of impact.
Do you think that you could manage to have sequentially higher EBITDA in the first quarter given the benefit from lower benzene costs? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> That will offset that closure? Just overall for the company your first quarter EBITDA will be up down or flat with the fourth quarter? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> At this point until I get the plant back up and running in Port Neches and until we actually can see the impact I think that when we look at the first quarter impact on benzene it will be hitting us rather late in the year as will the Chinese New Year demand for China and I think that maybe in one of our Investor Conferences or something perhaps later in the quarter we might give a little bit more guidance but right now with the pieces moving as quickly as they are I'd just be getting myself in trouble.
Okay.
And then on your TiO2 capacity reduction you mentioned 13% of your capacity in Europe is going to be impacted by this action.
Could you break out what portion of that is your own capacity? And what is represented by the TR52 tolling agreement that will be persist after that action.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well the 13% capacity that is of our European capacity.
So our European capacity that's our total global capacity of TiO2 about three-quarters of that is in Europe.
So if we look at that 13% that's just not for Europe that's a global number for us as well so we have total capacity in Europe of about 700 000 metric tons 750 000 metric tons and we're shutting down 100 000 tons of capacity and that's what that 13% to 14% capacity utilization comes up to.
The TR52 again given that's a specific product going to a specific customer grouping so forth we've not publicly talked about that actual volume.
We have a contractual agreement to produce that to a Chinese company the Henan Billions that we have sold that business to as part of a European Commission mandate and we will continue to fulfill the terms of that agreement and supply them.
So that's – the rest of our European business we intend to keep that and we intend to continue to be at an aggressive marketer of TiO2 in Europe.
And what's your TiO2 inventory levels at right now? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I'd say that right now it would probably be around 70 days or so I assume that would be about where the industry is as well.
It's about where we were last year.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Kevin McCarthy he is from Bank of America.
Please proceed.
Yes good morning.
My question relates to your medium-term free cash flow outlook.
If I go back to your Investor Day in March of last year I think you were looking to generate $720 million prior to dividends or $600 million after dividends.
Since then I guess you've got some new capital projects some restructuring et cetera.
Are you still committed to that level of free cash flow generation in the two to three year timeframe that you specified last March? Kevin great question.
And absolutely we are – I think – in fact the way we described 2015 is in that context.
For example in our free cash flow target of $700 million that you referenced we have $525 million of capital expenditures.
And so in 2015 we described our business as $525 million of CapEx plus this $100 million of sort of Rockwood capital that is sort of going to be completed by the end of the year.
So we think that CapEx number is good.
We think our interest – our cash interest number that we provided near term is a good number.
Cash taxes we've reiterated and we've been talking about working capital benefits.
And then the next big number of course is restructuring payments and I think of the $200 million that we're going to spend this year most of our restructuring will be done.
And so going into 2016 it may bleed over into the first quarter or second quarter.
But for the most part it will down to the level that we talked about in our Investor Day of right around $25 million of annual cash restructuring certainly not the elevated level we're at.
Pension costs are coming down notwithstanding discount rates fell tremendously and our unfunded amount increased by about $400 million.
But we think that pension funding will be below $100 million a year over and above expense.
So then you just need to hit the $2 billion EBITDA number and I think that all flows pretty well.
But we're on track with that Kevin.
Thank you.
That's helpful.
And second question if I may for Peter would you provide an update on the timeline that you envision for separating the TiO2 business and whether or not the new restructuring efforts in France will impact the timeline that you had put forth previously? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No I don't think that the time – the issues in France will not move that mark one way or the other.
We committed to the market two years after the closure of the business that we would be looking to take that business public.
And I would still stand by that number.
I think that as we look at the – by the end of next year which will be two years by the end of next year the vast majority of our restructuring our synergies will be complete.
I believe that prices the recovery in TiO2 should be well underway and I'm not going to say that we are going to be – that we're going to lock ourselves to that timeframe.
I'd sure like to see it happen by then.
But obviously we've also got to see a market that is conducive to IPOs.
And there's some external market conditions that we'd obviously want to see take place.
But as far as having the business "in shape" and ready to go with upside and so forth but still have the ability to assume debt and so forth and operate as a standalone entity.
Yeah.
I think that that timeline is realistic.
Okay.
Thank you.
Investor Relations</span></strong> Thanks Kevin.
Your next question comes from the line of Hassan Ahmed with Alembic Global.
Please proceed.
Good morning Peter.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi.
Obviously a bunch of questions around raw materials and the like and completely understand there are a variety of moving parts and the like.
But let's – if we were to run a theoretical exercise and assume that oil stabilizes where it is for the remainder of the year all other raw material prices be they benzene or methanol or the like kind of just freeze where they are right now completely theoretical but we obviously have a sense of what your annual purchases are and you obviously update those amounts at your Analyst Days.
I'm just trying to get a sense that in that sort of a theoretical environment what percentage of those cost savings could be captured? Is it 10% is it 80% just some sense of scale? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> All right.
Hassan it's a great question.
There are just so many moving parts in that question I mean when I look at the impact of what's happening with ethane to ethylene and look at the impact of what's happening with MTBE and premium gasoline and the impact of people chasing down finished prices to try to maintain volumes and so far I look at those negatives frankly they come up to $150 million $200 million they come to a very large number.
I look at the impact – the positive impact to MDI because of falling benzene the impact to our Advanced Materials because of falling raw materials around phenolic resins and so forth I look at the impact of lower propylene and ethylene prices to our Performance Products groups and so forth.
I look at the lower energy costs that will be coming into our TiO2 and what have you which – the falling prices in Europe of oil are going to impact utility savings and so forth more in Europe than they do in the U.S.
because Europe is more oil dependent.
I mean look at all of the pluses and that comes up to several – a couple hundred million bucks a year as well.
And so it really – and when I put those two numbers together the benefits outweigh the negatives.
And it's not where it doubles our EBITDA or something radical but I think that this is a business unlike some of our competitors that have large ethane cracking commodity sectors and so forth that – where you're permanently going to lose something I don't see a permanent loss if you will coming to the business because of falling raw materials.
I continue to see a net benefit across the board.
Very fair.
And moving on to TiO2 again a couple of moving parts as it relates to 2015.
One of the things that you talked about was a slight increment to the effective tax rate and the comment that you made was that primarily as a result of not being able to utilize tax allowances out of Europe particularly within the pigment side of things.
So just wanted to sort of get a sense that if I were to take a look at your EBITDA for pigments for 2014 it was around $84 million which includes one quarter of Rockwood.
Now the puts and takes obviously for 2015 are that you'll have the benefit from the synergies which you mentioned.
You'll get the EBITDA benefit from restructuring and the like but there will be charges associated as well for the restructuring in particular.
So what I'm just trying to get a sense of is that in that tax rate guidance of yours if I look at the core EBITDA scraping away restructuring and the like in the sense the negative impact of the charges of restructuring.
I mean on a core basis will you see an uptick in pigment segment EBITDA? This is 2014 to 2015.
Well so we provided you on a pro forma basis to kind of help you think about 2014 full year with the Rockwood businesses and inks TR52 stripped out we provided that in the earnings release.
So clearly with restructuring benefits in 2015 TiO2 on a pro forma basis will be down.
But of course it will be up on a GAAP basis because as you said we didn't have the Rockwood businesses.
Sure.
Sure.
Now just a little bit more guidance the Rockwood businesses with the benefit of restructuring could be up but the Huntsman legacy businesses will be down significantly given where prices have gone.
Fair enough.
Fair enough.
Very helpful.
Thank you Kimo.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So Hassan let me also just note kind of going back.
I want to make sure that we're clear on the gives and pluses and minuses of energy because it is something that – I don't want to try to confuse people but as we look at this let me just say in a very simplistic way.
If we look at the GAAP EBITDA for 2014 versus 2015 from what we see today we believe that 2015 is going to be stronger across the board for this company than 2014.
And so as we look at the benefits and the challenges that we're going through in pigments I think as I look at the budgeting process we've been through the planning process and everything I think 2015 is going to be a great year.
I think 2014 was a terrific year.
I think 2015 is going to be better.
Very good.
Thank you Peter.
Investor Relations</span></strong> Thanks Hassan.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Yefremov with Nomura.
Please proceed.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning everyone.
Peter first question on Polyurethanes business and in particular MDI and the systems business.
So far what we have seen on MDI benchmark prices they've been pretty stable only $0.05 per pound decline in January and then flat in February.
Are you seeing any discounting to these benchmark levels in MDI specifically? And also do you see the systems business prices maybe declining more than MDI? And I'm just asking it to you maybe get additional color on your comments about competitive pressure and competitive behavior in the Polyurethanes business.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Alex again I don't mean to sound evasive in this answer.
But 2 500 different SKUs almost 3 000 different SKUs that we've got in this business.
Some of our business – some of our products will not be moving down at all in pricing even in the face of falling benzene; some of our products are already coming down because of benzene weakening and so forth.
The benchmark prices that you see for MDI I think directionally that they're probably somewhat accurate when we look at the individual prices that they record I mean we have MDI pricing that is all over the board right? I mean unlike polystyrene or polypropylene ethylene propylene something where you have a pretty tight range of a couple of pennies per pound we go from dollars per kilo tens of dollars per kilo.
And so it's tough for me to say that a $0.05 reduction here or there is really what we're seeing.
I mean if anything we want to try to get away as far away as possible from the benchmark of MDI.
We want to add as much value to that and move it further downstream.
So again I'd say that we are seeing a softening taking place in MDI pricing but it is nowhere near at this time the softening that we're seeing in raw materials.
That's what gives me the confidence that MDI is going to benefiting throughout 2015 in the face of falling raw materials.
So just a little more color there.
30% of our MDI is sold as a component.
There is absolutely a very strong correlation with MDI component prices and benzene prices.
So 30% absolutely we will see MDI prices fall with benzene; there may be a bit of a lag and I think that's what you see in benchmark consultant pricing.
You will see that component price and that is polymeric MDI.
The other 70% is differentiated variants and systems; you will not see a listing for that.
And that is a bit that we will hold onto longer than the components and hopefully for a long time.
But of that there are some prices that are pass-through contracts and so we won't keep that.
So really we have talked to the market about roughly 50% of our MDI that is differentiated that is not protected from a contractual pass-through standpoint that we are battling to hold on to.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you and a follow-up on MDI market as well.
I think you had mentioned in your outlook strong demand in the U.S.
and China and softer in Europe.
How do you see supply demand in MDI given continued ramp of capacity in China and do you expect that to impact either U.S.
or European markets in 2015? Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well as we look to 2015 I'm kind of starting to look beyond 2015 looking to 2016.
Remember when somebody comes on with a facility if we're coming on with a facility and it's going to open and it's going to start operating in July 1 of this year hypothetically Huntsman sales representatives are going to be out six months nine months before the startup of that facility and we're starting to get pricing commitments and volumes right? You see the pricing impact of new capacity you actually see it coming on a couple of quarters before the actual capacity comes on.
When the capacity itself comes on and hits the market that's usually less disruptive than when you see a couple of quarters in front of that when people are out trying to buy up excess volume to fill the capacity.
I hope I am making sense.
So you don't just start up a plant and say let's go out and start selling now that we've started up a plant.
So as I look at the capacity that is coming into the market today I believe that there's enough capacity that is coming into Asia that will continue to supply the Asian market.
There is a little bit of – there's some few debottlenecking projects there's no grassroots capacity that's coming on in the next year or even two in Europe or North America.
And so as I look at that European and North American market I believe that they're going to get tighter.
I believe today they're operating at close to 90% capacity utilization.
I think over the course of the next year or two they're going to be moving into the 91% 92% capacity utilization.
And the Chinese material is going to be – is probably going to keep capacity utilization there probably in the high-80%s 88% 89% capacity.
And I think that – and again remember on those commodity grades of MDI you can ship some of that crude MDI if you will around the world.
But on the downstream the system the higher end value-added components of MDI it's very difficult to make those products in China.
You have to ship them to the U.S.
hypothetically to U.S.
or Europe you have to ship them in a cryogenic refrigerated storage and over time and I'm talking weeks maybe a month or so there the products starts to discolor and goes off spec.
So excess capacity in China does not necessarily mean that all of that tonnage kind of slops over the rest of the world as it does in other products.
So long answer my apologies.
As I look at capacities in MDI I think that they're tight today and gradually over the course of the next year or two they're going to keep getting gradually tighter outside of China and I think they're going to stay pretty well balanced within China.
The Yantai – what is it 600 000 ton plant in Bajiao is in the market today.
So it's there and they are selling.
I don't think they're selling anywhere near 600 000 tons out of that plant but at the same time they shut down a Yantai city plant of 200 000 tons that is already in the market.
So as Peter said...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> They're out there putting it in the market.
There really isn't a lot – there's debottlenecking but there's not large chunks coming on in the next couple of years.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you very much.
Very helpful.
Your next question comes from the line of Laurence Alexander with Jefferies.
Please proceed.
Hi.
Thanks.
Just one quick one left is there an inventory revaluation adjustment that will affect Q1 results as well? No.
Actually in Q1 we would expect inventory levels to rise in a seasonal basis so it's unlikely you would see that in the first half of the year.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Herb Hardt with Monness please proceed.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning gentlemen.
It's a twofold question – one is has anyone else gone along with your price increase on TiO2? And secondly am I correct in understanding that net-net worldwide TiO2 capacity is sort of flattish over the next two years? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I think that you have globally I'm trying to think of anybody that's adding capacity.
There's a new plant that's coming on in Mexico.
I described some years ago we need that like a hole in the head and I'd reiterate that same thing today but that's coming on probably in the next year or so.
I'm not sure when that will come on but beyond that I think you've got some debottlenecking consolidation and so forth that are taking place in China but I don't see any capacity new capacity that's coming on anywhere around the world.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> And in terms of competitors meeting your price increase? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So as far as competitors meeting our price – yeah our price increase has been out there for about 72 hours and so I'm sorry I thought the same part of your question was around the capacity utilization.
The price increase I haven't heard of any competitors at this point but I certainly – I would be surprised if people would be responding within a day or two.
I mean look we're doing not what the competition is – we're not trying to follow anybody here.
We're looking at market conditions within Huntsman and everything and we're going to go out with or without competitive support but knowing how much everybody else is hurting I – we'll see what they do.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Zekauskas with JPMorgan.
Please proceed.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Operator we'll take this as the last question.
We've kind of gone over our time here.
But I want to make sure that given the volatility and so forth within the market we had adequate time on Q&amp;A.
So Jeff go ahead.
Okay.
Thanks for squeezing me in.
So I had thought that China exported 150 000 tons more TiO2 in 2014 than it did in 2013 – and that that was the primary reason for the oversupply in the market.
Is your data different? Yeah.
Listen when we think about Chinese exports we exclude the Asian region right? But that's a natural place for the Chinese to export to.
We think about exports into our markets which is North America and Europe.
So we think the North American and European imported product from China has been very flat and it's been about 150 000 tons.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah a while ago Latin America Africa U.S.
Canada Europe over the last couple of years it's – there's been some volatility on a quarter-to-quarter basis.
But it remains fairly consistent and it's – most of that growth is taking place in the APAC area.
So I'm – sorry when we look at Chinese exports we typically don't look at what's going on within Chinese neighbors and so forth.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you so much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Investor Relations</strong> Allison this is Kurt.
We want to thank everyone for joining us this morning.
We will be available for follow-up discussions if you'd like to have then.
But once again thank you for your time.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Quarter One 2015 Huntsman Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Sheila and I'm your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
We will conduct a question-and-answer session towards the end of this conference.
As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Kurt Ogden Vice President of Investor Relations and Finance.
Please proceed sir.
Investor Relations</strong> Thank you Sheila and good morning everyone.
Joining us on the call today are Jon Huntsman our Founder and Executive Chairman; Peter Huntsman President and CEO; and Kimo Esplin Executive Vice President and CFO.
This morning before the market opened we released our earnings for the first quarter via press release and posted it on our website huntsman.com.
We also posted a set of slides on our website which we intend to use on the call this morning in the discussion of our results.
During this call we may make statements about our projections or expectations for the future.
All such statements are forward-looking statements and while they reflect our current expectations they involve risks and uncertainties and are not guarantees of future performance.
You should review our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for more information regarding the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these projections or expectations.
We do not plan on publicly updating or revising any forward-looking statements during the quarter.
In addition we will also refer to non-GAAP financial measures such as EBITDA adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income or loss.
You can find reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in our earnings release which has been posted on our website at huntsman.com.
We have chosen to include certain comparisons of our results to prior periods on a pro forma basis adjusted to include the acquisition of the Performance Additives and Titanium Dioxide businesses of Rockwood Holdings and the related sale of our TR52 product line used in printing inks to Henan Billions Chemicals.
We believe this helps to provide a better understanding of our Pigments and Additives division.
In our earnings release this morning we reported first quarter 2015 revenue of $2.589 billion adjusted EBITDA of $285 million and adjusted earnings per share of $0.40 per diluted share.
I will now turn the call over to Peter Huntsman our President and CEO.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Kurt.
Good morning everybody and thank you for taking the time to join us this morning.
Let's turn to slide number three.
Adjusted EBITDA for our Polyurethanes division in the first quarter of 2015 was $105 million a decrease of $62 million compared to the prior year.
The decrease was attributed to lower PO/MTBE earnings partially offset by an increase in MDI urethanes earnings.
During the first quarter this year we completed planned maintenance at our PO/MTBE facility in Port Neches Texas.
We estimate the first quarter EBITDA impact was approximately $60 million.
We experienced a delay of approximately 30 days in the restart of the facility during April.
We are currently operating at normal rates.
However we estimate the second quarter EBITDA impact from the delayed start-up to be approximately $30 million within this division and $35 million for the company as a whole.
Our PO/MTBE EBITDA declined $73 million compared to the prior year.
$60 million of this was attributed to our planned maintenance outage while the other $13 million was attributed to lower MTBE margins following lower prices for high-octane gasoline.
EBITDA for our MDI urethanes increased $11 million compared to the prior year notwithstanding approximately $11 million of foreign currency exchange headwind as a result of the stronger U.S.
dollar compared to the prior year.
We saw stronger MDI volume growth in North America and Europe most notably in construction insulation and automotive end markets.
We're encouraged by the green shoots we saw in Europe as this remains the region where we sell the most product.
The positive trends in Europe helped offset slower than expected growth in Asia where certain consumer end markets declined and we deselected low margin accounts.
Let's turn to slide number four.
In the first quarter our Performance Products division recorded adjusted EBITDA of $121 million compared to $118 million in the prior year.
I believe the strength of this business is underappreciated.
Approximately two-thirds of its earnings are generated from amines and maleic anhydride where we have leading market positions with higher than GDP growth rates and serve attractive niche markets.
The balance of the business is comprised of surfactants and ethylene intermediates which are largely structured in cost-plus contractual arrangements and benefit from the U.S.
Gulf Coast ethane advantage.
The combination of these product groups result in a business that has a profile characterized by low earnings volatility high teens EBITDA margins and attractive return on net assets.
Higher sales volumes and higher contribution margins in our amines and maleic anhydride businesses more than offset lower ethylene margins in our upstream business which saw margin pressure from lower oil prices and meaningful currency headwinds.
We sold our European surfactants business in the second quarter of 2014 and closed our Patrica Italy facility in October which accounts for much of the reduction in our revenues.
We believe our refocus on differentiated surfactants will improve our annual EBITDA by approximately $20 million in 2015.
Let's turn to slide number five.
In the first quarter adjusted EBITDA in our Advanced Materials division was $58 million with an EBITDA margin of 20%.
This is an improvement of $12 million compared to the prior year of $46 million.
This is another business that seems to receive a lack of focus from the investment community in general.
We successfully completed a major restructuring in this business in the middle of 2014.
More than one-third of the earnings from this business are generated from the aerospace market where we supply epoxy resins used in composites.
Sales volumes declined due to our deselection of lower-margin business and the closure of facilities in India and Spain.
Margins improved across most end markets as local currency average selling prices increased and raw material costs such as bisphenol-A and epichlorohydrin decreased.
Let's turn to slide number six.
Our Textile Effects division reported adjusted EBITDA of $17 million in the first quarter.
This business is benefiting from an increased focus on higher-margin products and lower structural fixed costs as a result of our restructuring efforts.
We expect a seasonal uptick in demand in the second quarter which is generally our strongest quarter.
In the second quarter mills and retailers start to prepare for the fall and winter seasons when there's a higher demand for more organic fibers in darker shades that use more of our chemicals and dyes.
Slide number seven our Pigments and Additives division earned $21 million of adjusted EBITDA in the first quarter.
Our non-TiO2 portion of this division earned $16 million whereas our TiO2 business earned $5 million in the quarter.
Business conditions remain challenging for the titanium dioxide market.
However we are encouraged by the $9 million sequential improvements in earnings compared to the fourth quarter in TiO2.
Although average-selling prices decreased in all regions as anticipated this was more than offset by volume growth most notably in Europe which is our largest market.
Our aggressive restructuring plan to capture $140 million in synergies and $35 million from the shutdown of our black-end at our Calais France facility are progressing according to plan.
We expect to capture combined annual savings of $75 million in 2015 primarily in the second half and an annual savings run rate of $175 million in the second half of 2016.
Before sharing some concluding thoughts I'd like to turn a few minutes over to Kimo Esplin our Chief Financial Officer.
Thanks Peter.
Let's go to slide eight.
In the first quarter of 2015 compared to the prior year our adjusted EBITDA decreased to $285 million from $329 million.
Our first quarter 2015 adjusted EBITDA decreased $7 million compared to the prior quarter of $292 million.
The decrease for both comparisons was primarily the result of the planned maintenance at our PO/MTBE facility in Port Neches Texas in the first quarter of this year which resulted in a decrease to our earnings by approximately $60 million.
Sales volumes decreased in large part due to the deselection of lower-margin business.
Average selling prices decreased at a more modest pace than raw material costs which led to an overall improvement in margins.
Slide nine.
In March 2015 we issued €300 million or approximately $326 million U.S.
4.25% senior notes due 2025.
We used the proceeds to redeem $289 million of our outstanding 8.625% senior subordinated notes due 2021.
We expect to save approximately $11 million in annual interest expense as a result of this refinancing.
During the quarter we spent $149 million on CapEx.
We expect to spend approximately $525 million on base capital expenditures in 2015 net of partner contributions including approximately $75 million for the former Rockwood businesses.
In addition in 2015 we expect to spend approximately $100 million combined on our new Chinese MDI facility the completion of the Augusta Georgia pigments facility and replacement of the Rockwood IT systems.
Based on the preliminary allocation of purchase price accounting for Rockwood we expect our annual depreciation and amortization rate to be approximately $400 million.
Our adjusted effective income tax rate for the first quarter 2015 was 25%.
We expect our long-term adjusted effective tax rate to be about 30%.
During the first quarter 2015 the strong U.S.
dollar reduced adjusted EBITDA by an estimated $17 million compared to the prior year.
Based on current foreign exchange rates we expect the second quarter year-on-year headwind from FX will be more than the first quarter.
As we work toward improving our free cash flow generation I'd like you to remind you of a few items to think about in 2015.
We believe we will be able to generate an improvement in our working capital investment this year by approximately $100 million.
During the quarter this year our working capital was flat compared to a use of $214 million in the same period of 2014.
Pension funding in excess of expense will be approximately $100 million and restructuring payments will be approximately $200 million.
In-spite of elevated cash requirements in 2015 of approximately $300 million higher than normalized CapEx and restructuring activities we expect to have positive free cash flow in 2015.
Peter? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Kimo.
Let's take a look at slide number 10.
About a year ago at our Investor Day we introduced to the market our near-term EBITDA target of $2 billion.
We believe that we could achieve this number in the next two years to three years.
During this past year we've seen tremendous volatility in raw material costs and an erosion of certain North American feedstock advantages.
We've also experienced an unforeseen drop in the euro and other currencies against the dollar as well as a general overall slowdown in Asia and the TiO2 industry.
I think that it is worthwhile for us to briefly update investors on our latest views as to our ability to achieve this objective.
We continue to believe that we will achieve a $2 billion run rate in 2017.
However we also expect the composition from some of our divisions to be different.
As part of the $2 billion objective we showed last year we set a target for our more specialty divisions of Performance Products Advanced Materials and Textile Effects to earn $750 million of EBITDA.
Over the past 12 months these divisions have earned $735 million and will certainly see continued growth.
We expect the combination of facility expansions in the U.S.
and Asia along with restructuring benefits and organic growth to contribute approximately $150 million more than our original plans.
In Polyurethanes we have three meaningful growth projects underway including the expansion of our MDI facilities in the Netherlands the U.S.
and China as well as the completion of our PO/MTBE joint venture facility with Sinopec in China.
We reiterate our earlier forecast of $875 million and feel confident with the market conditions that we see today that this is achievable.
As we review the latest market conditions of our Pigments and Additives business we see an Additives business that in these market conditions is generating $100 million of EBITDA.
We have $200 million of additional EBITDA that will be generated through our announced restructuring synergies in the completion of a new color pigments facility in the U.S.
giving us a $300 million EBITDA business.
We are projecting another $125 million of TiO2 industry improvements and price increase as the industry gradually recovers.
This represents a $135 per ton increase over the next two years hardly an aggressive forecast.
Again we continue to target a $2 billion run rate in 2017.
With present industry trends we think we will continue to see stronger specialty and differentiated growth than we had expected and softer commodity TiO2 recovery.
Equally if not more important in our forecast is our forecast to generate $700 million of free cash flow with this $2 billion of EBITDA.
We expect to see half of that $700 million generated in 2016.
I like the fact that we are less dependent on our more commodity products and we see better than expected growth with our specialty and differentiated downstream products.
As we review our performance in the first quarter our MDI Polyurethanes amines and Performance Products epoxy and Advanced Materials and Textile Effects all increased their earnings from the previous year to have the strongest first quarter in our history.
While I was disappointed with the delays in bringing our PO/MTBE facility back on stream as planned it is operating today.
Looking out over the remainder of the year adjusted for our PO/MTBE maintenance outage we should see our combined non-Pigments and Additives division expand their earnings to new record highs and our Pigments and Additives continues to improve throughout the year due to our restructuring and cost cutting efforts.
Despite of the market volatility and FX headwinds we are heading into a strong year and should continue to generate increased shareholder value.
At this time I'll turn the call over to any questions.
Operator? Thank you.
Your first question comes from the line of P.J.
Juvekar of Citi.
Please proceed.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
This is Eric Petrie on for P.J.
today.
It appears that Rockwood's business EBITDA declined in first quarter so I was just wondering if you could walk us through what you expect going forward this year? So you're asking specifically about the Rockwood businesses? Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yeah the Rockwood businesses...
Yeah.
I mean.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Maybe on the (19:22) the TiO2 side.
When you look at the sort of the year-over-year pro forma I think we're showing $73 million of EBITDA going to $21 million and most of that decrease is in our legacy business.
I think the Rockwood business was dropped around $10 million.
And the Huntsman businesses dropped roughly $40 million.
And that's just basically the mix of specialty TiO2 versus the more commodity TiO2 that we have in our legacy businesses.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> As we look at that business going out over the course of the next year I think that we'll continue to see more benefit going to the entire Rockwood business from our restructuring and cost cutting than we will through price increases.
But I do expect over the course of the year that we'll see improvements in both areas on an FX neutral basis.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
And then secondly your Advanced Materials EBITDA margin improved nicely in the quarter.
Can you quantify the impact of lower raw materials versus the exit of lower margin business and whether or not you see that as sustainable? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I certainly would see that as sustainable going forward.
Again I think that we presented this past year that we would see kind of two areas of improvement with this business.
One would be getting the business right from a cost point of view.
And we had to take cost out of the business.
And that's really what we did from 2014 leading into the early part of 2015.
More importantly I believe on a longer-term more sustainable basis is to make sure that we've got the right product mix and that we're focused on really the products that over the course of the next five years we're going to see growth we're going to see margin stability and areas where we can improve the overall health of the business.
So again short-term over the course of this last year we've deselected we've gotten out of some of the lower-margin businesses.
We mentioned on the call we got out of Spain and Italy and so forth and as we look at our business going forward you might see a little bit of choppiness quarter-to-quarter but I think that the margins of earnings that we see today over the course of the next two years to three years certainly is sustainable if not opportunity for improvement.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of Frank Mitsch of Wells Fargo Securities.
Please proceed.
Good morning gentlemen and a better start to the year than expected.
And I think some of this was on the TiO2 front where you did see a sequential improvement I think you said of $9 million and the thought was I think earlier in the quarter that that would only be flat.
So what went right in that business? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think that we saw a little bit of a volume pickup in the latter part of the quarter in March; I think in Europe where we have the preponderance of our business.
If I was just to comment – I'm not trying to divert your attention away from TiO2 at all Frank – I would say that as we look at Europe in general I don't want to say that I'm bowled over by it.
But I think that as we look at our urethanes business our pigments business those businesses that are pretty centric to Europe we're seeing better growth in Europe than I think that we would have expected.
Again we're looking at 2% 3% growth in Europe and I think that we're seeing some of the early benefits of this coming in pigments.
We still have a long way to go in TiO2 recovery and I don't want to play too much in the European volume recovery story but for us our European volumes as you look in virtually any of our divisions we sell twice the amount of volume in our polyurethanes in Europe that we do in Asia.
Across the company I personally would rather see a 4% growth in Europe than I would a 10% growth in Asia.
Not only is the volume stronger in Europe but the mix is also different as well.
So when you look across the business as well from my perspective at least as we start to see these green shoots I referred to earlier in Europe I think that they have the potential of having an impact as we go throughout 2015.
I guess it would be hard to pin down is this a function of the exchange rate playing out in the marketplace or the fact that the cost basis in Europe being oil derived and in many ways having come off? And if so the expectation would be that you've already indicated you expect Q2 to be a bigger negative FX headwind but you're making it up I guess on the volume side if in fact that's the case? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
That's right Frank.
I mean again in all of these I think that we try to – and sometimes when we look at our projections I think people make the mistake of trying to micromanage; just what impact is a single raw material drop going to have or what impact is FX going to have? When we look at a FX coming from Europe of course that's going to be a drag on the business.
But when I look at Europe in general I think that when we see a growing market in Europe and I would attribute that growth to being able to export.
And so we're seeing European automotive the high-end automotive section looking a little bit better than we had expected.
But one of the areas of – and again these are numbers Frank that we're just seeing really in the last month or two here.
But when I look in polyurethane some of the construction materials and insulation and so forth and in Europe seeing a nice improvement over the previous year that also tells me that the lower interest rates and so forth in Europe are starting to reverberate into the construction industry and so forth.
And we start to see an improvement in appliances and some of those downstream areas hopefully in the second and third quarter.
That would really show they're starting to get traction.
But again some of these green shoots that we're seeing in Europe in general and I think it's attributed to being able to export easier more cash is in the market at a lower interest rate and so forth; again I'm a little more bullish on Europe than I would have been a quarter ago.
And we're seeing a little bit more of a drag in the Asian markets than we probably would have expected a quarter ago.
But I gladly would trade Europe for the conditions I see in Asia.
Peter that's very helpful and just a quick one for Kimo.
You talked about restructuring use of cash being $200 million for the year.
I believe that it was a $94 million negative impact on EBITDA in Q1.
What is the pace of that restructuring cash use for the balance of the year is your expectation? Yeah.
It pretty well matches the benefits.
And so if you think about the first quarter we had $5 million worth of benefits in the quarter and so it's slow but it comes pretty strong in the second half and I would expect the cash flow to be the same.
Really second half driven in terms of cash restructuring payments.
All right.
Thank you so much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Frank.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of James Sheehan of SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Please proceed.
Thanks for taking my question.
Just a follow-up on TiO2.
You're seeing volume strength in Europe.
I'm just wondering if you could also give us some color on the price increases you have in that market whether they're starting to gain traction and whether this improvement in volumes is helping that cause? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I would say that our price increases throughout the second quarter will be few and selective in certain areas.
But I've been by and large – I've got a lawyer in the room I'm not even going to look down towards him.
I've been disappointed by and large with the discipline the industry has had in their price increase announcements.
It just seems like it's a soft market.
Okay.
And on Polyurethanes how much margin expansion were you able to benefit from on benzene in the first quarter? And how much of the decline in raw materials do you expect to capture in the next few quarters given that benzene has started to rebound here? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I think that as we look at the entire company and again it's kind of tough when you look at it quarter-by-quarter month-to-month inventory values from the beginning of the quarter to the end of the quarter and so forth but as I look at the entire company we've benefited by about $100 million for the quarter.
You look at the volumes of our raw materials and the volumes of our products that we're selling it's fair to say that polyurethanes is going to catch the biggest piece of that $100 million and some of that $100 million is going to be offset with some of the FX and so forth but again I think that as we look longer-term in Polyurethanes and in most of our products and I got a little bit of criticism in the follow-up from the last conference call that we didn't seem to have absolute clarity and certainty as to the impact of what $2 per gallon lower benzene was going to have on the business.
Well so here we are a few months into the year we've seen our biggest raw material in Polyurethanes dropped by 50% and the last couple of weeks we've seen it increased by 50% and I think that again I'll say the same thing as when it dropped 50%; let's look at the overall strength of the margin that we're able to capture the strength of our downstream the strength of our ability for pricing increase and so forth.
We're going to have a sector of our business that will fall with raw materials falling.
We're also going to have a sector of our urethanes business that will that is calculated on the movement of raw materials.
We've also got a large section downstream that we don't really – we don't go to our customers and say well the price has gone up or the price has gone down of our raw materials.
We're selling them a solution.
We're selling them a value that adds value to something that they're producing.
So as we look at our MDI margins across the board I would say as I did we kind of gave our forecast for the year this is going to be a better year or MDI than the previous year.
And we're going to see raw materials go down.
We're going to see them come up.
We're going to see FX headwinds and everything else.
But if we've got the right MDI and Polyurethanes management team we're going to continue to consistently focus on the right markets the right pricing the right relationships.
And we're going to continue to create value in that division.
And so we sit here now with raw materials having gone up 50% and I'm still confident that we're going to achieve what we've set out to achieve in urethanes.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of Hassan Ahmed of Alembic Global.
Please proceed.
Morning Peter.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Morning Hassan.
I wanted to touch on the favorite topic I guess titanium dioxide.
In the press release you guys talked about bloated inventory levels being obviously one of the reasons for a downtick in pricing.
Can you expand on that a bit more? A) Where are those inventory levels for you guys? B) Obviously the volumes sequentially were quite good but are you scaling back on your operating rates to right size those inventories? Any color around these things would be appreciated.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well.
I can't comment on exactly where the industry is.
I suspect that they're somewhere around the 60 days about where we are.
I don't have any data that would say drastically different up or down from that.
But we're about that 60 day level and I believe that we're operating we haven't much inventory for this time of year and we typically see a volumes start to come back.
And I think that the overall industry it seems that inventories about where they should be.
I mean they're lower today than they were last year at this time.
Fair enough.
And changing gears a bit on the MTBE side of things this year a couple of moving parts.
Pricing obviously has come down alongside crude but then again your raw material costs be it on the methanol side or the butane side have come down as well.
So if you were to think about it on a year-over-year basis how should we think about these moving parts with regards to a hit or maybe a tailwind or a headwind or whatever you may have it? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I would think that again we talked earlier in the year that there would be a headwind on MTBE just because of lower crude prices.
And MTBE usually is a function as is gasoline the function of a percentage of the price of crude.
So I mean just following that logic you'd probably see a contraction in those margins as you see crude prices fall.
You know however as we look around the world today there's stronger and stronger demand for octane and high octane gasoline today than I probably would have expected at this time.
And MTBE demand and oxygenates in general continue to be fairly strong right now a little bit stronger than I would have anticipated.
So all in all I think lower crude prices are going to usually represent a challenge to MTBE but where the market is today and as you well know Hassan this is the market it can change hourly.
But where the market is today it feels pretty good.
Very helpful Peter.
Thanks so much.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of Kevin McCarthy of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed.
Yes good morning.
Peter in MDI I think one of your U.S.
Gulf Coast competitors had declared force majeure on Monomeric MDI in March.
And I was wondering is that part of the strength that you're citing in the U.S.
market or is it more of a – in the industry level demand strength? And then over in Europe – I'm sorry over in Asia what is driving the deceleration of demand regionally there? And maybe you can give us some color on operating rates? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> What's happened in the U.S.
is not – when I talk about the activity levels that we're seeing in demand in North America I would not attribute the closure that you made reference to.
That hasn't had any impact on our demand or on our margins.
I think that's fair to say.
I think that as we look at the Asian markets I think that there's a general softening of the market conditions in China.
I know they published some GDP numbers here recently.
If we look at kind of across the board in China and in greater Asia I think that people are certainly feeling the effects of lower prices a longer Chinese New Year just as when it fell this year on the calendar and so forth and as we look at the construction and materials business in China it certainly has slowed down.
Again I think that if we look at overall in China in general this is going to continue to be a growing economy.
It seems to be a growing market for us.
Exactly where we are today I'm not sure that I'd read that into a full year's sort of projection or condition.
Maybe just a little bit more color on Europe specifically Kevin.
Europe we saw our construction and insulation business grow double-digit as well our composite wood area.
Auto continues to be strong.
It's been strong even over the last year when Europe was fairly flat.
And correspondingly Asia as Peter said is down a bit on the construction and insulation side.
And we think that reflects the market that it is a softer construction market right now.
How would you characterize operating rates globally in MDI? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think again you have to look at it regionally.
I would say that in North America that it is in the low 90s% and the market is improving.
I think that it's been similar to last year.
I think we had a later start to the construction year than we typically have seen.
Looking at April I think we're seeing a bit of the impact of a late winter.
Looking to May I think that we're going to see a rebound of those construction patterns.
We're not seeing our North American construction housing and so forth customers come back and say they're cutting their projections as much as just cutting the timing of their orders.
So I continue to be quite optimistic on the North American economy in-spite of this point to GDP.
I think a lot of that might have been weather related.
I think again we saw a lot of that last year.
In Europe as we look at capacity utilization we're probably operating there in and it feels like in the mid to upper 80s% capacity.
But again – well then in Asia I would say that it's probably similar to Europe.
Now we do have announced price increases in Asia in MDI in certain grades of MDI.
And as we look around Europe and North American markets particularly in light of rising benzene prices we're in the process of studying where we need to be going with pricing in those regions as well.
But I would just emphasize that as we go further and further downstream and we look at a larger percentage 60% 70% of our business is more dependent on formulations and further downstream blending and so forth that I believe that those margins are going to be less operating rate sensitive than perhaps where we were a few years ago.
That's helpful.
Thanks for the color.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of Alex Yefremov of Nomura.
Please proceed.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning everyone.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> Peter just wanted to follow-up on the MDI question in Asia.
Have demand and margins deteriorated progressively throughout the quarter? Or did things get worse in the beginning? And how are you exiting the quarter? Are things actually getting better for the second quarter and the rest of the year in Asia? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well if we look at Asia in the quarter demand certainly softened.
So I'd say that that was headwind.
Margins would've increased during that same time period.
So I think that there is a discipline on pricing.
There is ability to take advantage of falling raw materials and so forth.
So again I wouldn't read too much into Asia when you look at capacity utilization and sensitivity towards that capacity utilization.
So you should remember in 2014 let's see if I can remember this demand in Asia grew 10%.
Fourth quarter demand grew I think 6%.
And here we are in the first quarter with a softer demand; a kind of flat market is what we can see.
But as Peter said the margins expanded in the first quarter largely because of raw materials.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
And as a follow-up if you look across your portfolio in the second quarter do you think you can grow EBITDA year-over-year despite the slight spillover of the outage into Q2? I think what we're saying is we are up year-over-year adjusted for the turnaround.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah in the second quarter that's right.
So taking the $35 million out we would see margin growth.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
And a final question if I may just a follow-up on an earlier question on Performance Additives.
If you look at legacy Rockwood Performance Additives business on my math it would've been down year-over-year about $10 million EBITDA.
First of all is that correct? And if that is correct what is driving the Additives business declines? Well it wasn't $10 million down but it was about half that.
And some of it was the color business which goes into construction in North America.
It's largely a North American business.
So our color business is down a bit.
And a little bit in the Functional Additives business that is manufactured out of Duisburg that goes into coatings.
That was a little softer.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of Bob Koort of Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
This is Ryan Berney on for Bob.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Ryan.
Just had a question on – within the Polyurethanes portfolio you have the component piece and the differentiated piece.
I was wondering if you could comment on whether that mix is different in Europe versus Asia? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I mean Europe we would have as large of a components business a differentiated business than we have anywhere in the world.
And then from your perspective the capacity that's being added in Asia not necessarily your own but by competitors; is that from your perspective mostly a commodity grade? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well yeah.
I mean it's crude MDI and then what they do beyond that further downstream.
There certainly is more crude MDI or base MDI capacity than splitting capacity.
And if you were to look at Huntsman we have a large MDI manufacturing joint venture with BASF in China.
We as Huntsman 100% wholly owned our splitting capacity downstream from that has the ability to take that MDI to add value and that's where you differentiate the MDI.
So when you look at China I think it's important not only to look at the crude MDI capacity that's coming out but also the splitting MDI.
The splitting MDI capacity that's coming out in China is quite small in comparison to the overall MDI that is coming on in China as well.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then just lastly on that point looking out over the next couple of years do you anticipate there being a position in China where they would move into an export situation with polyurethanes? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well they certainly could yeah in the more commoditized grades.
But again let's remember that where Huntsman's focus where we're growing the business and where we're going to make the most money is on our downstream grades.
And when you talk about some of those grades you're shipping cryogenically.
This is product that'll discolor in a pretty short basis.
These are customers that want the handholding customer service and technical support and so forth.
I think it would be very challenging to build a North American or to build a Chinese business with a Chinese platform for North America or a Middle East platform for someplace else or a U.S.
platform.
Again you can help supplement some of those volumes and so forth but yeah.
Are you going to see exports from China? Yeah.
Are they going to attack the downstream and have a material impact on those downstream businesses? No.
Let's remind you I think today a large Chinese manufacturer is currently an exporter of MDI out of China.
I think all the western producers are importers of MDI.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah we're certainly a large importer into China from the U.S.
Right.
So you got flows going both ways.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of Mike Ritzenthaler of Piper Jaffray.
Please proceed.
Yes.
Good morning Peter.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Can you update us if possible on the timelines for the new MDI facility in China? Just remind us of what you've said before: so in China the Netherlands and the incremental capacity in the U.S.
when those might begin to contribute to earnings and the relative magnitude of the various projects? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay.
So you're specifically on a project-by-project basis...
Yeah.
In the past – I was just going to say in the past you had a chart of some of the different projects that you've got going on globally.
I'm particularly interested in the MDI's ones that you were discussing earlier.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay.
So in MDI we're bringing our Geismar facility up to 500 000 metric tons of capacity.
That should be done the fourth quarter of this year and that will have an annualized EBITDA impact of around $30 million give or take depending on where prices are at the time.
What we see with our expansion in the Netherlands that will be the second quarter of 2017.
So that one's quite a ways off.
The PO/MTBE joint venture should be completed in the fourth quarter of next year.
Probably a startup I would imagine shortly after the Chinese New Years of 2017 so could have a first quarter start-up of 2017 on that one.
And then our own MDI in splitter expansion in Caojing China again that would be the doubling of our business in our MDI supply in China that should be in the second half of 2017.
Yeah all of those are subject to local permits and construction lead times and everything else but that's pretty much what we're expecting at this point.
Right.
Of course.
Yes.
No that's helpful.
And I guess one for Kimo on free cash.
You outlined some of the puts and takes for 2015 and clearly the first quarter was impacted by the -outage.
Is it the contribution margins within the differentiated businesses that gives you the confidence in positive free cash in 2015? And just as an add on to that if half the $700 million potential in the portfolio comes in 2016 is that how much of that expectation or how much of that improvement in free cash over 2015 is business specific like MDI pricing and things like that? And how much is kind of financial like working capital I guess maybe asked a little bit differently how much of that $350 million or so is within Huntsman's control do you feel versus end-market health and improvement? Yeah.
Well I think as you think about the $2 billion in 2017 I mean it's the same kind of question you're asking around 2016.
I think we have growth projects that get us there.
There's some margin expansion that we need to get to the $2 billion including as Peter mentioned roughly $135 ton margin expansion in TiO2.
And we have some MDI margin expansion baked in there.
But for the most part it's topline growth and it's fixed cost reduction in our businesses.
So our view on 2016 and free cash flow is again a continuation of restructuring benefits some growth in our business and bringing on projects on time and on cost.
So we feel pretty good about both of those metrics free cash flow and EBITDA.
And don't think we have crazy assumptions relative to cycles or raw material assumptions.
Fair enough.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of John Roberts UBS.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
The biggest increase you made in 2017 was in the Performance Products areas.
So I just wanted to make sure I haven't lost track of things there.
Most of that production is now in the U.S.
And how much of it is gas-based versus oil-based.
Maleic would be oil-based.
EO EG would be gas-based and amines would be gas-based.
Could you maybe just give us some color since you made a pretty big increase there? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well if we look across the board as to kind of the pieces that we see of the increase on Performance Products.
So the ethylene oxide as we said in the past we see that that's obviously going to be a gas-based.
And purchased ethylene again we're a net buyer of ethylene and we'll be buying close to about 1 billion pounds-plus of ethylene once that facility is up and sold out.
And I think when we by the time we're doing that.
I think it's going to be a buyer's market in ethylene.
So that's a piece of it.
When you talk about our maleic anhydride being oil-based that's mostly gas-based business with butane and so I think that business – but when we look at the difference here that $75 million of improvement going from $500 million which is kind of where the business is today in that general ballpark going to $575 million.
I look at that EO expansion it's $35 million of that the European shutdown of our surfactants business being another $20 million of that $75 million and that's a shutdown that has already taken place.
And then I'd say the other $20 million comes from amines expansions which are taking place in our European North American and our Singapore locations.
And as we just see the organic growth of that amines business improving by $20 million over the course of the next year or two here.
So I don't see that $500 million going to that $575 million I don't see that as really a big stretch.
I think it's quite realistic.
Those are each projects.
The organic improvement in that business is actually quite small as part of that $575 million.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of Laurence Alexander Jefferies.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
Just quickly does the diminished prospects for the Pigments business at all alter your thinking about going through the hassle and cost of doing the spin or conversely the long-term prospects of keeping the balance of the business in your portfolio? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No.
If anything Laurence the volatility of the Pigments business and the strength and continued improvement of our non-TiO2 businesses just proves that we're on the right course.
We want to see the separation take place.
We continue to explore our options of an IPO or a spin of what's going to be of greatest value to the shareholders.
I think that it's absolutely essential that we're well on our way of proving to the market and accomplishing the $200 million of improvements that we're going to see in that business regardless of what happens in the overall market.
That's something that's under our control.
And so no I mean as we look at that today I think we're on the right course.
And as I said in my comments the improvement that we see in that business you look at the $100 million is kind of the core business.
That's today at today's crummy markets.
The $200 million of cost improvement is under our control.
That's something that I feel very confident that we'll be able to – that's a $300 million Pigments and Additives business.
And then $125 million of coming of improvements from price increases which is $130 a ton taking TiO2 margins from historically bad to just bad.
So I mean as I look at our leap of faith there there's nothing that I see there that's a real role of the dice.
We control the vast majority of that.
So I think as a business it's going to improve here over the course of the next 18 months.
It's going to be more valuable 12 months to 18 months down the road and I think it's going to be a much stronger candidate for us to pursue those routes of separation.
Then perhaps I would've thought a quarter ago.
I think we're on the right course and I get – as you can tell.
I'm a huge proponent of that as is our board.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks.
Laurence.
Investor Relations</span></strong> Sheila this is Kurt.
I believe we have time for one more question please.
Yes.
Thank you.
So the last question comes from the line of Herb Hardt of Monness.
Please go ahead.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
My question regarding the TiO2 industry you've gone a little bit a downsizing with the closure in Calais.
Do you see any of your competitors doing similar things? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I wouldn't hesitate to tell you if I knew but I just did not and I simply wouldn't know.
The first I'd know if something like that would be when there's a public announcement that's made.
Our general sense is that some of the things that TZMI has published relative to Chinese producers consolidating and shutting down inefficient plants is true just as anecdotal view.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
We're – we certainly should say we are seeing that in the industry right? That's not a rumor but that's something that is happening so yeah.
That would certainly be something that's changing.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Investor Relations</strong> Sheila this is Kurt.
We want to thank everyone for joining us on the call today and if there are any additional follow-up questions please feel free to reach out to a member of the IR team.
Thanks again for joining us.
Thank you Kurt.
So ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2015 Huntsman Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Denise and I will be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Kurt Ogden Vice President of Investor Relations and Finance.
Please proceed sir.
Investor Relations</strong> Thank you Denise and good morning everyone.
Joining us on the call today are Jon Huntsman our Founder and Executive Chairman; Peter Huntsman President and CEO; and Kimo Esplin Executive Vice President and CFO.
This morning before the market opened we released our earnings for the second quarter via press release and posted it on our website huntsman.com.
We also posted a set of slides on our website which we intend to use on the call this morning in the discussion of our results.
During this call we may make statements about our projections or expectations for the future.
All such statements are forward-looking statements and while they reflect our current expectations they involve risks and uncertainties and are non-guarantees of future performance.
You should review our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for more information regarding the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these projections or expectations.
We do not plan on publicly updating or revising any forward-looking statements during the quarter.
In addition we will also refer to non-GAAP financial measures such as EBITDA adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income or loss.
You can find reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in our earnings release which has been posted on our website at huntsman.com.
We have chosen to include certain comparisons of our results to prior periods on a pro forma basis adjusted to include the acquisition of the Performance Additives and Titanium Dioxide businesses of Rockwood Holdings and the related sale of our TR52 product line used in printing inks to Henan Billions Chemicals.
We believe this helps to provide a better understanding of our Pigments and Additives division.
In our earnings release this morning we reported second quarter 2015 revenue of $2.740 billion adjusted EBITDA of $385 million and adjusted earnings per share of $0.63 per diluted share.
I will now turn the call over to Peter Huntsman our President and CEO.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Kurt.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
Let's turn to slide number three.
Adjusted EBITDA for our Polyurethanes division in the second quarter of 2015 was $159 million.
During the second quarter this year we completed planned maintenance and a restart of our PO/MTBE facility in Port Neches Texas.
We estimate the second quarter EBITDA impact was approximately $30 million within this division and $35 million through the company as the whole.
Our PO/MTBE EBITDA declined $27 million compared to the prior year primarily as a result of our extended planned maintenance outage.
Margins improved compared to the first quarter as a result of strong octane demand low butane costs and favorable industry business conditions returning margins approximately to prior year levels.
EBITDA from our MDI urethanes decreased $11 million compared to the prior year.
However for the first half of 2015 we saw another year-over-year improvement in earnings.
This is the sixth year in a row we've seen year-over-year improvements in our MDI business.
We expanded margins in our differentiated MDI portfolio compared to the prior year but this is more than offset by foreign currency headwinds higher fixed costs and the downstream impact from our extended PO/MTBE maintenance outage.
We estimate the foreign currency exchange headwind was approximately $27 million.
As a result of the stronger U.S.
dollar.
Demand for MDI moderated in the second quarter.
We are encouraged by the improving market conditions we saw in Europe which is our largest market as demand for insulation composite wood products in the automotive market demonstrated attractive growth.
However the Chinese economy slowed down and commercial construction activity in North America was less than we previously have seen.
Turning to slide number 4 in our second quarter our Performance Products division recorded adjusted EBITDA $141 million with an EBITDA margin of 21%.
This is an improvement of $26 million compared to the prior year's $115 million notwithstanding a negative $11 million headwind from foreign currency.
This business continues to receive a lack of focus from the investment community.
Approximately two-thirds of its earnings are generated from amines and maleic anhydride where we have leading market positions with higher than GDP growth rates where – that serve attractive niche markets.
The balance of the business is comprised of surfactants and ethylene intermediates that are largely constructed around cost plus contractual arrangements and benefits from the U.S.
Gulf Coast ethane advantage.
The combination of these product groups results in a business that has a profile characterized by low earnings volatility attractive EBITDA margins and a high return on net assets.
We continue to see strong demand for our amines and maleic anhydride a favorable supply-demand environment for amines-enabled margin expansion as the cost of raw materials decreased.
During the second quarter this year ethylene upstream intermediate benefited from industry supply outages.
We estimate the EBITDA benefit was approximately $10 million.
Let's turn to slide number 5.
In the second quarter adjusted EBITDA in our Advanced Materials division was $58 million with an EBITDA margin of 21%.
This business has undergone a very successful transformation.
We successfully completed a major restructuring in this business in 2014.
Now more than one-third of the earnings of this business are generator for the aerospace market where we supply epoxy resins and hardeners used in composites.
Our products are qualified and in many cases are required in long multi-year production runs of new generation aircraft.
We sell directly to the airplane manufacturers as well as third-party suppliers such as Hexcel and Cytec.
Compared to the prior year sales volumes decreased as we deselected certain low-margin businesses with a high cost to serve.
We'll continue to see the lower year-on-year sales volumes impact of this decision throughout the remainder of 2015.
Margins improved during the quarter across most end markets as local currency average selling prices increased in the Americas and global raw material cost such as bisphenol A and epichlorohydrin decreased.
Turn to slide number 6.
Our Textile Effects division reported adjusted EBITDA of $23 million in the second quarter.
This business has improved dramatically over the past few years as a result of our restructuring efforts.
We have aggressively focused on higher-margin products while reducing our structural fixed cost.
Importantly this is the first quarter where this business has met our 10% return on net asset hurdle rate.
The second quarter of this business is generally the strongest as mills and retailers prepare for the fall and winter seasons when there is high demand for more fibers and darker shades that use more of our chemicals and dyes.
We expect EBITDA to moderate closer to our first quarter results for the remainder of the year.
Let's turn to slide number 7 our Pigments and Additives division earned $35 million of adjusted EBITDA in the second quarter.
Our non-TiO2 portion of this division earned $27 million whereas our TiO2 business earned $8 million in the quarter.
Non-TiO2 EBITDA was essentially flat compared to the prior year whereas business conditions remain challenging for the TiO2 market.
Average TiO2 selling prices decreased compared to the first quarter.
The decrease was most pronounced in North America.
Our aggressive restructuring plans to capture $140 million in synergies and $35 million from the shutdown of the black-end of our Calais France facility are progressing according to plan.
We expect to capture combined annual savings of $75 million in 2015 primarily in the second half and an annual savings run rate of $175 million by the second half of 2016.
In addition our new color pigments facility in Augusta Georgia will be mechanically complete by the third quarter of this year.
We expect $30 million of annual EBITDA benefit from this facility when we rationalize capacity elsewhere and it's running at capacity.
In total we have $205 million of synergies and restructuring savings that will benefit this business by the middle of 2016.
Before sharing some concluding thoughts I'd like to turn a few minutes over to Kimo Esplin our Chief Financial Officer.
Thanks Peter.
Let's go to slide 8.
Our adjusted EBITDA increased to $385 million in the second quarter of 2015 from $363 million in the prior period.
Average selling price has decreased at a modest – at a more modest pace than raw material costs which led to an overall improvement in margins of $102 million.
The benefit of adding Rockwood Performance Additives in TiO2 businesses contributed $43 million.
The foreign currency negative EBITDA impact of approximately $49 million was primarily from the stronger U.S.
dollar against major European currencies.
Sales volumes decreased 10% compare to the prior year.
Adjusting for the impact of extended planned PO/MTBE maintenance restructuring and de-selection of low-margin businesses the decrease was only 2%.
The extended planned maintenance at our PO/MTBE facility in Port Neches Texas in the second quarter of this year reduced adjusted EBITDA by approximately $35 million.
Compared to the prior quarter our adjusted EBITDA increased $100 million to $385 million from $285 million in the first quarter.
The lion's share of this growth came from seasonal improvement in demand.
This was partially offset by an estimated $21 million of foreign currency impact and higher fixed costs.
Slide 9.
At the end of the quarter we had $1.4 billion of liquidity.
As it relates to our debt we are launching an offer to extend our term loan B by two years to March 2019.
Looking forward we have approximately $198 million of 8.625% senior subordinated notes due 2021 which become callable in mid-September.
It is our current intention to exercise our right to redeem these notes for cash at approximately 104% of par which will save us about $17 million of annual interest expense.
During the quarter we spent $147 million on capital expenditures.
We expect to spend approximately $525 million on base capital expenditures in 2015 net of partner contributions.
In addition in 2015 we expect to spend approximately $100 million combined on our new Chinese MDI facility the completion of the Augusta Georgia color pigments facility and the replacement of the Rockwood IT systems.
We expect to see the benefits of our heavy capital expenditure investments beginning in 2016.
More specifically our MDI expansion in Geismar Louisiana will contribute approximately $30 million annually.
Our ethylene oxide facility in Port Neches Texas which – will generate approximately $35 million annually and our new color pigment facility in Augusta Georgia will contribute approximately $30 million annually.
Based on the preliminary allocation of purchase price accounting for the Rockwood performance additives and TiO2 businesses we expect our annual depreciation and amortization rate to be approximately $400 million per year.
Our adjusted effective income tax rate for the second quarter 2015 was 32% and we expect our long-term adjusted effective tax rate to be approximately 30%.
During the second quarter of 2015 the strong U.S.
dollar reduced adjusted EBITDA by an estimated $49 million compared to the prior year.
Based on current foreign exchange rates we expect the third quarter year-on-year FX headwind to moderate somewhat.
We are diligently working to improve our free cash flow generation.
As it relates to 2015 I'd like to remind you of a few items.
We believe we will be able to generate an improvement in our working capital investment by approximately $100 million.
Through the first half of this year when working capital seasonally builds we used $123 million of cash.
This is an improvement compared to last year when we used $315 million of cash in the first half.
Pension funding in excess of expense will be approximately $100 million.
And cash restructuring payments will be approximately $200 million.
In 2015 we have approximately $300 million of higher than normalized capital expenditures and cash restructuring activities.
We expect these to normalize in 2016 and dramatically increase our free cash flow.
Peter? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Kimo.
In spite of Q2 FX headwinds of $49 million compared to a year ago and a charge of approximately $35 million from our extended plant maintenance as well as a slowing Chinese led Asian economy we had one of the strongest quarters in our history.
Our performance products in Advanced Materials division each had EBITDA margins of 21%.
The rest of our non-TiO2 businesses including our color Pigments and Additives divisions all earned double-digit EBITDA margins.
We reaffirm our guidance of stronger 2016 cash generation as we will be spending approximately $300 million less cash on CapEx and restructuring expenses.
We are on track to generate $205 million of synergies in restructuring savings in our Pigments and Additives business.
While pricing in some of these markets continues to be weak in TiO2 we think that our cost reduction will offset any potential margin erosion due to price deterioration.
As I look at our order patterns cost improvement programs expanded capacities and growth in our aerospace tolling downstream derivatives eco-friendly products and growth in the European and North American markets I see continued opportunity to strengthen our company.
Importantly we remain committed to a separation of our Pigments and Additives business by the end of 2016.
On past quarterly calls I have avoided commenting on our stock price as this is something that obviously changes on a daily basis.
As I look at the loss of equity value that we've experienced in the past weeks I simply see no justification for the market valuations that we're seeing.
In short as I look at the remainder of the year I see a better second half than first half.
With that I'll turn the call over to Kurt to start Q&amp;A.
Investor Relations</strong> Thanks Peter.
Denise will you please explain the procedure for questions – for Q&amp;A and then open the line for questions? Sure.
Our first question comes from Rob Koort with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed.
Thanks very much.
Appreciate the bridge you provided on slide 8.
I was wondering Kimo if you could give us a little more granularity on that price-cost benefit how it's distributed across the segments.
And you showed sequentially that it helped a little bit in the first to second quarter.
Do you think you're at the end of those raw material benefits as you go into the third and fourth quarters sequentially? We should enjoy the same level of margin expansion in the third quarter or similar that we did in the second quarter.
In other words I think we're holding price where we're going to hold price.
And I think if there was a delay to our customers it's gone and we passed through.
So I think we're at a pretty stable level in terms of margin expansion relative to last year.
Okay.
And then Peter you made the comments around your stock price and valuation.
I'm wondering if you shouldn't just call yourself a commodity chemical company because it appears they all have higher multiples.
So some reason the market doesn't want to give you credit for anything you're doing.
Do you think it really comes down to the biggest concern I hear from people is that the debt balance doesn't seem to decline and the cash flow generation always seems just out of reach? Can you talk a little bit about how you see that cash flow generation or net debt level trending over the next several quarters? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I think Bob there's no doubt that we have undertaken some very aggressive cost restructuring programs and expansions of some of – particularly some of our downstream businesses in international operations.
And I think that you've heard multiple times in the past quarters and again on this call this next year as we look at the cost benefit that we will see assuming that EBITDA stays flat which as I look into this next year we outlined some of the new projects that will becoming on the expansions that will be on we won't have the T&amp;I that we had during the first quarter and second quarter of this year.
I certainly would expect our EBITDA to improve in 2016 over 2015.
But even if thing stays the same we'll see approximately $300 million less of restructuring charges and CapEx.
And I think that when we see that – those less charges coming through in 2016.
I think that that's a more normalized level of spending for this company.
And this company ought to be generating several hundred million dollars a year of free cash flow.
So as I – again as I look at over the last couple of years really the result when we went through the recession in 2009 2010 and we really thought a need for restructuring a lot of the cost and so forth the vast majority of our cost in restructuring – I believe it's publicly been announced it's behind us.
And as I look at – to 2016 we're very much committed as a company that that's going to be a year of very strong cash flow for us.
And I think that again the proof's going to be in the actual results of that happening.
Great.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Our next question comes from Mike Ritzenthaler with Piper Jaffray.
Please proceed.
Morning.
If we could take a step back and maybe take a fresh look at the path of $2 billion in EBITDA I'd be curious about your thoughts around a couple of things Peter.
I guess first the impact of currency rates on the goal.
It sounds like that might be kind of a $200 million-ish headwind.
And I guess secondly on that whether you see Performance Products and Advanced Materials may be over earning a bit versus that goal? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah I mean when we set that goal we did that.
Now it's been just over a year ago.
And I think that as we look at the major changes of this last year certainly what we did not see when we put that goal and I'm not sure anybody saw it was the impact of currency fluctuation.
And I also don't think that anybody would have foreseen a year ago when we saw crude oil prices were at around 100-plus dollars a barrel where we see crude oil today.
So on one hand we certainly have been hit by the FX impact of probably around $100 million a year.
I would think on the other side that we ought to have seen some sort of (23:05-23:06) at least on a short-term basis of lower raw materials.
But look at the end of the day the FX impact is going to be longer term for us and we just got to suck it up and be more aggressive.
And as I look at what we originally committed to the market around our Textile Effect our Advanced Materials and our Performance Products we believe – we've increased the earnings of those businesses the potential earnings of those businesses by approximately $150 million.
We decreased our target and our goal for the TiO2 and for the Rockwood acquisition.
I still – again in my personal opinion you're certainly at the bottom – what I would consider to be the bottom in pricing on TiO2 and so forth.
If I look at upside on the Pigments and Additives side of the business I certainly see upside in the coming years in that end of the business.
And as we look at the goal around our MDI polyurethanes business again I think that we've continued to hold fast at what we see in that business.
So again the $2 billion number that's out there the – that some of the parts I believe is something that we still are targeting on that we believe the composite of those parts is going to continue to change.
I suspect that over the course of the next year or two those various components that make up that $2 billion will continue to fluctuate.
But we need to be focused on the long-term objective here and the strength of those individual divisions.
Maybe I can just add a real quick clearly that we're not happy with nearly $50 million of FX translational headwinds in the second quarter.
But of course Europe has a lower cost currency.
And in the quarter we saw volumes in Europe grow nearly – well 8%.
So we're seeing growth in Europe from that lower cost base and while you had headwind in one place you may see some growth in another place that we didn't anticipate a year ago.
Okay.
Interesting.
Thanks for the color on that.
And I guess one thing that I've been curious about too is as MDI prices have softened how have the differentiated or systems' pricing products held up versus your expectations and versus components? I guess one would expect that the system should be somewhat decoupled from broader industry trends.
But I'd be curious about your thoughts on whether those systems have had pricing that's held up versus your expectations.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Yeah I would say as we look at the overall MDI supply chain if you will I would think just as kind of as a rule of thumb the component – polymeric component side of the business the more commoditized side of the business probably has just at least – from my view at least has weakened perhaps a bit more than we would have expected; whereas the downstream variance the polyols business the systems businesses that's actually held up a bit better.
And so at the same time that you're hearing about component prices and even demand in certain areas fall off in Asia – in Europe where we have twice the size business than we do in Asia as Kimo mentioned yeah we're seeing quite strong growth in that area.
And we're seeing margins that are being maintained in the downstream business.
So certainly the strategy that we started a few years back of looking -- of taking as much of the component portion of the business and moving out into the variants moving out downstream certainly paying off today.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Our next question comes from James Sheehan with SunTrust.
Please proceed.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks for taking my question.
Peter could you just give us your outlook for MDI operating rates in the second half of the year and where are those currently taking those by geographic region? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well again I think that that's always a tough one.
I mean I assume that you're asking how it is from our company's point of view not the industry.
The industry is always a tough one when you see certain facilities that are coming online that are 400 000 tons 500 000 tons 600 000 tons.
How – what rate and what capacity utilization so forth our competitors are able to achieve? At this present time I'm really not certain of that; nor do I want to speculate on that.
I do kind of get a feel though that certainly the markets are tighter in Europe and North America than they are in Asia.
Asia has seen the impact in the first and second quarter of a lot of capacity coming on stream.
I would say that today as we look at it that the Asian markets are probably operating in somewhere in the mid – perhaps even little bit lower than that 80% the mid-80% capacity utilization.
In Europe you're probably seeing something just shy of 90% the high 80%.
And in the U.S.
you're probably seeing something in the low 90s.
Again as you're getting back to the previous comments that I made as you look at the more commoditized end of that I think that you're probably seeing a wider variation from the polymeric commoditized side of the MDI chain.
That's the part – that's a grade that I can export around the world.
I can move it around the world and so forth.
In the more downstream derivatized side which has a limited shelf life it's expensive to move around the world.
And so when you look at these capacity utilizations it's important to note that there's also a large section of the MDI business that really is regional.
And it's kind of tough to be moving those products around the world.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
And also on TiO2 you got some synergies occurring.
Could you just give us some color on the cadence of your capturing of those synergies in the second half? Sure.
So we said $75 million for the year.
We captured roughly $20 million in the first half.
We'll get the $55 million in the second half.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Our next question comes from P.J.
Juvekar with Citi.
Please proceed.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Morning.
This is Eric Petrie on for P.J.
Hey Eric.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Could you give us an update on your TiO2 utilization and then your inventory levels? And then secondly are you seeing more competitively priced Chinese volumes in Europe? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> As I look around right – at the industry right now a quarter ago we reported inventory rates were up at around 63 64 days in the first quarter.
And right now we're seeing inventory rates probably around the mid-40 days 45 46 47 days of inventory which is a little bit lower than I would have expected a quarter ago.
As we look at the global price on TiO2 pigments frankly we're not seeing a lot of imports coming in from Asia into the European market.
And those imports – the amount of those imports today are really quite low.
And so as we look at the amount of imports today a matter of fact I'm just looking at a chart here you go back like two years and it's the lowest it's been over the last couple of years here.
And so it's – I don't think that Asian pricing of TiO2 in my opinion really affects global markets that well.
And if I – if you look at Asia and exports out of Asia going into North America Latin America Europe that really hasn't grown much in the last year or two.
It's been very flat.
Most of the Asian business that leaves China goes and stays within the Asian market.
So not seeing a great deal of product coming into the European market from North America or Asia.
I think just to comment on price I think what's happened is I think what we've been calling for a couple of quarters now with the weakening U.S.
dollar European U.S.
dollar prices are – excuse me the strengthening of the U.S.
dollar – U.S.
dollar prices in Europe are significantly lower than dollar prices in the U.S.
(32:15).
And I think we said at the end of the first quarter that differential was sort of the highest it's even been.
And the only thing that could happen would be that European prices had to go up or likely U.S.
prices would come down.
And we've seen U.S.
prices come down.
Prices in euros in Europe are fairly flat.
So in terms of global pricing you're seeing U.S.
prices fall to something closer to a historical differential between U.S.
and European dollar prices.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Great color.
And then did you touch on utilization? And then secondly in MDI you noted slowing demand in China.
How do you see second half playing out? And then remind us what your polymeric versus downstream systems exposure is in the region.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
On TiO2 our capacity utilization rate for us is 86% 87% capacity utilization.
I wouldn't care to speculate what's going on in the rest of the world.
I just -it's not published in – I'd just be speculating at this point.
What was the other part of your question? Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> The second part was regarding MDI demand in China you saw slowing this quarter.
How do you see second half playing out? And then what is your crude polymeric versus downstream systems exposure in the region? Crude polymeric versus downstream I'm not sure that we publicly have ever broken that sort of granularity out.
What we've said is globally we're roughly 70% differentiated sort of through systems and what we call variance.
And that certainly would be higher in Europe and the U.S.
than it would be in China and Asia just because those are two more mature economies as far as the downstream utilization.
And between Europe and the Americas just to remind you that's 75% of our overall volume with 25% going in – and not just in China but the entire Asian region.
But as it relates to sort of our mix of business in China and Asia obviously insulation; it's 40% of our total business.
It's well represented in Asia.
And in the last couple of quarters we've seen that building and construction segment soft and we would expect that to continue be soft in the second half.
That's a system business.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> If we look at the order patterns – the most recent order patterns that we're seeing internally I don't see things getting worse in China.
But again that's – I mean that's kind of on the ground order patterns that we're seeing today.
I don't see (35:09) things getting worse.
I'm not going to say I see things screaming up through the roof or anything but I remain – personally I remain cautiously optimistic.
By and large the Chinese economy is something that longer term we believe in.
It's going to continue to have heavy investments in infrastructure and the domestic economy and so forth.
And you obviously are going to see some growing pains with stock market and so forth.
But by and large as we look at over the next couple of years it's going to be a great market for us.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thank you.
Our next question comes from John Roberts with UBS.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Given the TiO2 industry has weakened further do you think you could participate in additional consolidation? Or have you already bitten off as much consolidation as you can and it's somebody else's turn? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I would just say that as we look at the separation of our TiO2 business we've publicly said that it's our goal to see that separation occur in an IPO fashion by the end of 2016.
Obviously if something were to occur before then that would allow us to be part of a consolidation play that would create value for our shareholders and be in the best interest of our shareholders before that time period of course we'd be open to that.
But at this point I wouldn't want to comment any further on that.
Any – let me just say that any consolidation opportunity would be in combining with another player and we would not be a cash acquirer of the other business.
It would be a reduction of our interest in TiO2.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Fair to say.
And then the Solvay transaction with Cytec today might suggest your Advanced Materials segment could fit with a large number of plastic firms.
Instead of separating the most commodity business have you thought about maybe separating the most specialty? Well at 15 times EBITDA that does sound interesting doesn't it? 40% of our Advanced Materials business goes into composites so they are – there's the Cytec Hexcel Toray kind of customer base.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I would just say that again I don't want to get into speculation and so forth but I think that this company has demonstrated in the past and we continue to demonstrate that our first and foremost objective aside from running safe operations is creating shareholder value.
And obviously if we saw something that was going to be a benefit to our shareholders and to our company we're obviously going to be pursuing it.
Okay.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Our next question comes from Ivan Marcuse with KeyBanc.
Please proceed.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Thanks for taking my question.
You mentioned that you saw a weakness in North America.
Do you believe that was weather-related or do you see it as something changing in the industry? And what's sort of your outlook for I guess North American construction as it goes for MDI? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think part of that may have been weather-related in the earlier part of the quarter here.
I continue to believe that the U.S.
is going to be a sound and growing economy.
And again as we look out over the next couple of quarters and so forth I think we'll remain bullish on it.
I think folks forget for our North American business in polyurethanes while we have a big insulation business that in the U.S.
it's largely commercial insulation and that's where we saw the disappointment is in commercial insulation.
We do see a strong and growing residential spray foam business in insulation but still largely a commercial weight in the U.S.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then as a follow-up too you mentioned that you expect the EBITDA in the second half to be better than the first half.
If I do the quick math it looks like you did $670 million but that would include around $90 million to $100 million or so of outages et cetera.
So if you look at the second half is it the way to think about it is that you'll do $800 million in EBITDA plus or is there other moving parts that I need to think about? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think as I look at the EBITDAs and what we actually generated including the T&amp;I expenses typically our fourth quarter on a seasonal basis like all companies would be slowing down a bit.
And as I would get business conditions in the second half versus the first half I don't see any raw material change.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Laurence Alexander with Jefferies.
Please proceed.
Hi.
This is Dan Rizzo in for Laurence.
Just given that the recent changes just wondering update on just thinking around the urgency for deconsolidating the Pigment business has anything changed or what are your thoughts on that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I think when we talk about recent changes and so forth when it comes to a separation of the business and we've only talked publicly about potential IPO and did say early on the call that there might be other options out there.
And I'm not going to go down discuss any detail in those areas.
As we look at an IPO we've also said that we kind of need three things that we think will make for a successful IPO.
That would be we need to be well into our cost improvement program.
We need to see a broader economic condition where an IPO would be conducive to the overall – the timing is right from a stock market point of view.
And also that there is some visibility going forward in Pigments to where somebody can see a reason to buy the stock in the growth and earnings.
And just because you have an IPO doesn't mean – you have the ability to do an IPO doesn't mean that's the right time to do an IPO.
So again as we look as we said a year ago looking at the third quarter of this next year I think that when we start to look at the pricing and the market trends and so forth our cost reduction I think that that's something that we still feel very confident about and short of something more attractive coming between now and then.
That's something that we remain focused on.
Okay.
Thank you for the color.
And then you flagged I think $100 million in pension expense I think for 2015.
In 2016 how should we think about the cash flow bridge in terms of pension contributions and potentially planned outages because I think you said restructuring is winding down? Yeah.
Pension is really – of course can be a function of interest rates.
But we have said 2017 would be $75 million and so I think it'll be somewhere between $100 million in 2015 and $75 million in 2017.
All right.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Frank Mitsch with Wells Fargo.
Please proceed.
Hey.
Good morning gentlemen and nice results.
Hey Peter on the timing of the IPO just a word of advice please avoid the summer because this year and the last couple of years have been absolutely brutal and I'm lobbying for my boss to take the next summer off because this is too much to handle.
I hear you on the share price.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Frank I'll make sure that our board take all of your personal needs into consideration.
Thank you.
Volumes are down 10% on a total company basis but down 2% on a pro forma basis.
I believe I heard you say or keep on saying that volumes are up 8% in Europe.
Can you give us a tour of the world and talk about what volumes are going on a pro forma basis? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I think that as we look on a global basis we see volumes in the U.S.
and Canada again this is kind of all of the business together up about 7%; Europe up about 8%; Asia Pacific flat; and the rest of the world down 20-ish percent.
And a big chunk of that obviously is the PO/MTBE on the rest of the world.
So we export our PO/MTBE volumes which are 1.3 billion pounds annually.
Virtually all of that goes into the Latin America and rest of the world markets for us.
So that's where we saw obviously the biggest change.
But again when you look at Europe and the U.S.
strong single-digit growth certainly in excess of the GDP in those respective regions and that trough is the bread and butter of our business.
Wow interesting.
Would you care to offer some sense as to where you think Q3 is starting out in terms of volumes mid-single digits low-single digits in terms of volumes? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I think as we look at Q3 we're seeing a very similar quarter to what we saw in Q2.
I think that we'll see some benefits obviously coming from our cost reduction that will be taking place in our Pigments and Additives and at the same time we're going to see some of that offset by lower pricing and so forth.
Foreign currency again that's a tough one to speculate but as we look at where FX is today I think that that's probably going to be something pretty similar to what we saw in the second quarter.
As Kimo said it'll probably be a little bit less than that.
And I would expect to see year-on-year growth in Performance Products Advanced Materials and so forth and Textile Effects.
So as I look at overall we had a very strong quarter in Q2 and I would assume that Q3 will look very much like that.
Terrific.
Thank you so much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Our next question comes from Hassan Ahmed with Alembic Global.
Please proceed.
Investor Relations</span></strong> Hello Hassan? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hassan? Hassan your line is open.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> (46:27).
Our next question comes from Edlain Rodriguez with UBS.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Quick question Peter.
You talked about the portfolio shifting and so forth.
Now that the Textile business has stabilized somewhat and you've gone through all the restructurings do you think this still belongs to the portfolio or does is it belong with somebody else? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I still think that there certainly is upside in Textile Effects and I said a year ago that this business in the next year or so but did not hit double-digit return on asset and EBITDA margins that this will be a candidate for divestiture this last quarter.
It hit those thresholds and so forth and I see the Textile Effects business is being one of our intricate and core businesses.
So yeah.
And look let me just be 100% honest as well.
If we were looking to do something with the divesture or something I'm not sure that this would be the place in which I'd be saying we're making an announcement this business is on the block or something.
I have said earlier that we will continue to look at various parts and pieces of our business and evaluate how they are able to bring shareholder value to our company.
Textile Effects is certainly one of those.
But right now as we look at the business certainly we've seen an improvement in the business because of cost restructuring.
I think that we have a very robust product pipeline of new products growth opportunities.
We'll see better than GDP.
I think we'll see better growth in that business in our earnings relative to our peers.
If I believe for a minute that we didn't have further upside in any of our businesses of either new products or opportunities to expand markets and so forth I would immediately recommend to our board of directors that that business probably would be more valuable with somebody else.
That makes sense.
Another quick one just a clarification on Performance Products.
And I think you've talked about one key risk is being like lower oil prices but at the same time you talked about a lot of the products have passed through mechanizing them.
So how do you reconcile those two? I mean why would be there an impact on lower oil prices if you can pass through your cost up or down? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well what we tried to do in that business and some of the very volatile ends of that business that involved our ethylene glycol and some of our intermediates.
We want to make sure that we eliminate the volatility of those markets.
And so many of those products not all of them but many of the products we've sold them on long-term pulling basis.
So we think that will take quite a bit of the pulling out of – we have presently about 60% of our ethylene glycol is filled on a longer-term contractual basis that will involve a pulling element in that number.
Again I think that takes a lot of the volatility out of the earnings of the businesses.
The lower oil prices will be a benefit to the vast majority of our Performance Products downstream businesses because it means a lower raw material for those businesses.
And because of the tightness in capacity utilization we have an opportunity to capture that.
On the other hand we do have some of our surfactant products and some of our gas treating products and so forth that are used in the drilling and enhanced oil recovery.
We have seen lower demand in some of those areas but at this point that's more than been offset by growth that we've seen in other areas of amines and surfactants and the benefit that we've seen in lower raw material prices.
So I know it all sounds a bit convoluted but at the end of the day that's the division in my opinion that certainly benefits from lower raw material prices by and large.
Okay.
That makes sense.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
We now have Hassan Ahmed back on the line.
Please proceed sir.
The alarm clock went off Peter.
Morning.
How are you doing? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey Hassan.
Good to hear from you.
Sorry about earlier.
I actually stupidly rather than hitting the unmute button hit the hang up button.
So anyway question around TiO2 supply.
Obviously a couple of moving parts.
As we look at 2016 we have – Kimo was talking about the Mexico facility coming online but also saying that they'll take an equivalent amount of capacity offline.
And then we've obviously through the course of Q2 seen some consolidation in China.
So what's your view about TiO2 supply as we look into 2016? And just sort of correlate supply/demand fundamentals in the near to medium term.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well Hassan I have successfully called the bottom of the market in TiO2 correct about I think for the past three consecutive quarters.
Right.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And so while I'm hesitant to do that again I do look at the number of producers that are operating including Huntsman in our more commoditized products below cash cost.
I look at the slowdown of exports the uncompetitiveness of exports and in these conditions today this is not something that is sustainable going forward simply on the basis that producers can't afford to stay in business if you're paying people to take your product.
So as I look at the industry conditions I know I sound like a broken record on this but as you look at industry conditions typically and again I'm talking about the more commoditized side of TiO2.
Typically the further and the longer the downcycle occurs in any commodity the more volatile and the more rapid the improvement will take place.
And I'm not sure that that's necessarily going to happen in TiO2.
I'm careful to avoid speculating on what competitors may do or why they'd be bringing on additional unnecessary capacity in the industry that's already oversupplied but that's for them to work out.
As I look at the overall pricing and the overall margin this industry is in need of improvement and I don't think that the customer base of TiO2 is longer term served well by this because it does longer term add volatility and it has less investment into their supply platform.
So I guess Hassan what I'm trying to say more than anything else is I look at the margins where they are today and I really struggle to see how they can go materially lower than where they are particularly in Europe.
And I think you'll see continued weakening in pricing over the next course or so in North America as that gets in line with what we're seeing in Europe and Asia.
But in longer term I feel quite confident that as you look out over the next couple of quarters in the year and so forth that we will see margin improvement taking place.
Fair enough.
And changing gears a bit moving to the MDI side of things obviously we have what was supposed to be a Bayer MaterialScience's IPO in the first half of next year.
It seems that they're talking about sort of accelerating that and doing it later this year.
Obviously there'll be some valuation ramification associated with that in terms of people trying to assess how to value your Polyurethanes business.
But beyond that in your mind would there be any market ramifications? Meaning as a pure play sort of polyurethanes company would you expect the market to become a bit more rational? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I've always and I'm not going to speculate on a particular play or even product and what that competitively might mean but I think I've said in past calls that transparency and accountability in any business is healthy for that business.
And when a large conglomerate is able to take a division and fold it under another group and another division I'm not sure how much market transparency and how much accountability is there.
When something is brought out and a division has to go through the quarterly spotlighting that we're going through right now when people have to account for margins and expansion the CapEx and so forth while it might be a hassle to go through for a company I think it's a very healthy process to go through and it holds management accountable.
And I think that when you look at the recent spin-offs you've seen in some of the competing products that we have I think by and large it's a very positive thing for the industry.
I think that it brings accountability and it brings discipline.
Very helpful Peter.
Thanks so much.
Our next question comes from Herbert Hardt with Monness.
Please proceed.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Given the relative lack of success of two of your competitors and TiO2 coming public in the last year year-and-a-half has there been any rethinking of taking your TiO2 operation public and trying to do something creative in a different way? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I don't know.
I don't believe so.
I think that when we look at those two spin-offs and the timing of the spin-offs and the very structures of the spin-off I think each of them were unique for the reasons their timing and the structures and what liabilities may or may not be with them and so forth.
I think that as we look at what we're focused on what we can control I think that when we look at the combination of Rockwood Huntsman businesses the diversity of technologies and the product ranges from color through to white pigments in TiO2 when we look at the ability to further consolidate in the industry to further enhance our cost competitiveness and so forth I think that when we take this public I think it'll be an attractive asset and I think that it'll be a great story to tell in the market.
So I can't speculate and I can't comment on what competitors have done with their divisions but no I don't see any reason why we wouldn't continue to proceed forward as aggressively as possible.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you for that.
But the other question then is when you look at what you paid for the acquisition plus the amount of money that's gone into restructuring can you give us some idea what the total cost has been? Yeah.
So roughly $1 billion cash $200 million of pension purchase price.
We think EBITDA in that business this year 2015 will be similar to last year call it $170 million roughly.
So we own the business on a cash basis at purchase call it 4.5 times.
We're going to add $200 million worth of value in terms of synergies and we'll put $200 million of cash into it.
So in terms of restructuring – so call it $1.2 billion of cash and we think we're going to have a business that will on a pro forma basis with restructuring benefits call it $250 million.
So we think we have an accretive acquisition even at this sort of trough level.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you very much.
Investor Relations</span></strong> Denise this is Kurt.
We're at the top of the hour.
I believe we have time for two more questions.
Perfect.
Our next question comes from Christopher Perrella with Bloomberg Intelligence.
Please proceed.
Thank you for taking my question.
Peter could you give a little bit more color on the European volume growth? Was that auto-led construction? What's sort of the mix that's driving growth in the region? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Oh I think that it's construction.
I think that it's automotive.
I think its aero – well I don't think.
Just looking at the numbers it's aerospace it's automotive it's construction it's growth coming from the Eastern European side in footwear and so forth.
Basically it's installation.
As we look across the board I think that we're seeing a market for us that's growing and is stable.
All right.
Thank you very much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Our next question comes from the Bob Amenta with JPMorgan Asset Management.
Please proceed.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Morning.
I have two questions; one quick one.
Just on those 8.625% you mentioned $198 million I know some were redeemed in April that I thought took to like $240 million.
Did you buy some back since then or did I miss something? Yeah.
There were some purchases.
$198 million is the right number.
$198 million is the right number.
Okay.
And then not be beat the TiO2 horse but obviously the Chemours' stock is down 50%.
And basically it's just been a rough go of it.
I just think just looking at your equity multiple and then in some ways you can't control this.
On the other hand it's kind of questions you're just stuck having to deal with.
But you're at one to two turns below and yet TiO2 or Pigments is only 10% give or take at current levels of your EBITDA.
I can only imagine what multiple people are putting on that.
What can you do? I mean Chemours is still trading at 7 times 2016 estimate.
Tronox is at 6 times.
Your entire company is only at 5.5 times if we assume roughly $1.6 billion $1.7 billion next year.
I mean – and maybe you don't have an answer but it's just kind of amazing and mind-boggling that as someone said earlier people just – I don't know they're either too focused on it or they're not focused on all the other things you're doing.
I mean is there anything creative? And I guess the bondholder side of this is and I know you guys are generally conservative managers so the fear would be as a bondholder that you start to maybe use debt to basically buyback stock.
And I'm assuming that's not what you're looking to do but I just wanted to confirm that.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I'm not sure that we're in a position to comment on the strategy that would have to be decided on by the board.
But I think again to reiterate some of the things that we've said in the past we do want to make sure – I believe that the fastest the best things we could be doing in this company to enhance value we're doing it right now the generation of free cash flow.
And as we look at – it's wrapping up again the restructuring and our CapEx the benefits that we have through our investments in the past couple of years in restructuring improving our EBITDA decreasing our restructuring expenses and our CapEx.
Generating several hundred million dollars of free cash flow coming out of the company I believe is the single most important thing we can be doing.
Second to that is going to be the divesture the separation of our Pigments and TiO2.
You are right about the multiple.
Again I don't want to get into what multiple others are trading but as I look at the core EBITDA of this business as I look at our MDI business trading in the high teens on a EBITDA to sales our Performance Products our Advanced Materials now both of those in excess of 20% EBITDA margins and so forth.
As I look at the core of this the non-white TiO2 business all of it is in double-digit margin and a good majority of the core of our business non-Pigments and Additives business is approaching or in excess of 20% EBITDA to sales.
As I look at the strength of that portfolio I think that it is among one of the strongest in the industry and I think that we need to have a successful separation or deconsolidation of our Pigments business and the generation of cash.
I think that the combination of those two things are the greatest value-enhancing things that we can be doing steps that we can be taking.
And as I look at where we are today what we're generating today where we're heading today I don't see any slowdown in that and I don't see any reason why we shouldn't be successful in implementing those things.
So yes I'm very frustrated as a large shareholder and as Chief Executive Officer of the share of our multiple and our stock price but I think that we've also got to be disciplined and making sure that we preserve a strong balance street we generate a max amount of cash and that we continue to make sure that our portfolio is going to be centered around those margins that are highest growing and less volatile than we have.
So as I look at over the course of the next 12 months I'm very enthusiastic about where we're heading and what we're doing and I just – it's befuddling to me as to why we'd be trading in the high teens with the caliber and the quality of the assets we have.
Yeah.
I appreciate that.
I guess just a clarification on deconsolidation.
I was one hypothetically view IPO 20% 30%.
From an income statement perspective would the Pigments business kind of leave the company? Or I guess it just seems like if it's still in any way associated with Huntsman you're going to feel that drag.
So I'm just trying to figure out what maybe...
Bob if you IPO 30% it's still consolidated.
Yes it's still.
So when you say deconsolidation you don't mean from a literal...
Well sure it's capacity consolidation.
Obviously if you take it public there's opportunity to do secondaries to take it down.
Right.
Okay.
Well...
It's a two-step process.
But again we're exploring all of those options and we'll take the best option but our commitment is 2016.
All right.
Appreciate it.
Thanks for the time.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Investor Relations</strong> We want to thank everybody for joining us on the call today.
If there are additional questions please feel free to reach out to a member of the IR team.
Thanks again.
This concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day everyone.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Quarter Three 2015 Huntsman Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Carolyn and I'll be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are on listen-only mode.
We will conduct a question-and-answer session towards the end of this conference.
As a reminder the call is recorded for replay purposes.
And now I'd like to turn the call over to Kurt Ogden Vice President Investor Relations and Finance.
Please proceed sir.
Investor Relations</strong> Thank you Carolyn and good morning everyone.
Joining us on the call today are Jon Huntsman our Founder and Executive Chairman; Peter Huntsman President and CEO; and Kimo Esplin Executive Vice President and CFO.
This morning before the market opened we released our earnings for the third quarter via press release and posted it on our website huntsman.com.
We also posted a set of slides on our website which we intend to use on the call this morning in the discussion of our results.
During this call we may make statements about our projections or expectations for the future.
All such statements are forward-looking statements and while they reflect our current expectations they involve risks and uncertainties and are non-guarantees of future performance.
You should review our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for more information regarding the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these projections or expectations.
We do not plan on publicly updating or revising any forward-looking statements during the quarter.
In addition we will also refer to non-GAAP financial measures such as EBITDA adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income or loss.
You can find reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in our earnings release which has been posted on our website at huntsman.com.
We have chosen to include certain comparisons of our results to prior periods on a pro forma basis adjusted to include the acquisition of the Performance Additives and Titanium Dioxide businesses of Rockwood Holdings and the related sale of our TR52 product line used in printing inks to Henan Billions Chemicals.
We believe this helps to provide a better understanding of our Pigments and Additives division.
In our earnings release this morning we reported third quarter 2015 revenue of $2.638 billion adjusted EBITDA of $311 million and adjusted earnings per share of $0.47 per diluted share.
I will now turn the call over to Peter Huntsman our President and CEO.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you very much Kurt.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for taking the time to join us this morning.
Let's turn to slide number 3.
Adjusted EBITDA for our Polyurethanes division in the third quarter 2015 was $168 million.
MDI urethanes margins expanded compared to the prior year as our differentiated portfolio continued to deliver high profitability and low earnings volatility.
During the quarter our MDI urethanes business was impacted by two headwinds.
First compared to the prior year we experienced $26 million of negative EBITDA from foreign currency exchange as a result of the stronger U.S.
dollar primarily against the euro.
Secondly we were impacted by the slowdown in China leading to negative year-on-year volume growth and placing downward pressure on component polymeric MDI margins.
15% of our global MDI urethanes volumes are sold into China of which approximately 50% are differentiated MDI or MDI systems.
In contrast our European market continues to grow and through the first nine months of 2015 we have increased MDI volumes by 8% in this region driven by strengthening demand in automotive commercial insulation and composite wood product applications.
Our European business represents 40% of our global MDI urethanes sales volume and is our most differentiated region.
Margins for MTBE remained strong but declined compared to prior year as MTBE prices fell more than raw material costs.
Fourth quarter MTBE margins usually soften as gasoline demand falls and butane prices increase.
In the fourth quarter we expect the normal seasonal slowdown in MDI demand to be offset by improved margins.
Let's turn to slide number 4.
In the third quarter our Performance Products division recorded adjusted EBITDA of $122 million with an EBITDA margin of 20%.
Approximately two-thirds of our earnings from this division are generated from amines and maleic anhydride where we have leading market positions.
Overall we continue to see healthy demand for our amines and maleic anhydride although we did see some softness in China in the third quarter this year.
A favorable supply-demand environment for amines enabled margin expansion as the cost of raw materials decreased.
The other one-third of this business is comprised of surfactants and ethylene intermediates.
Lower ethylene prices in the quarter reduced earnings compared to the prior-year period.
We expect a normal seasonal slowdown in demand in the fourth quarter.
Let's turn to slide number 5.
In the third quarter adjusted EBITDA in our Advanced Materials division was $56 million with an EBITDA margin of 20%.
More than one-third of the earnings from this business are generated from the aerospace market where we supply epoxy resins and hardeners used in composites.
Our products are qualified and in many cases are required on long multi-year production runs of new-generation aircraft.
We are leveraging our technical know-how and applying it in the automotive industry as a search for ways to manufacture lightweight vehicles.
Compared to the prior year margins improved across most end markets as local currency average selling prices increased in the Americas and global raw material costs such as bisphenol-A and epichlorohydrin decreased.
Sales volumes decreased compared to the prior year as we de-selected certain low-margin business and experienced some customer de-stocking and competitive pressure.
We'll continue to see the lower year-on-year sales volumes impact of our de-selection through the remainder of 2015 and expect a normal seasonal slowdown in the fourth quarter demand particularly in Europe.
Let's turn to slide number 6.
Our Textile Effects division reported adjusted EBITDA of $10 million in the third quarter.
We've targeted key markets such as China India and Bangladesh to grow our business.
These efforts have been successful with sales volumes in key markets grew approximately 2% compared to the prior year.
Our sales volumes decreased primarily in Europe and South America where we de-selected certain low value business and experienced challenging market conditions.
Compared to the prior year we experienced approximately $3 million of negative EBITDA from foreign currency exchange as a result of the stronger U.S.
dollar.
Let's go on to slide number 7.
Our Pigments and Additives division earned $5 million of adjusted EBITDA in the third quarter.
Our results were negatively impacted by approximately $8 million due to the explosion of a nitrogen tank owned and operated by a third party at our Uerdingen German facility.
Approximately $5 million was related to lost sales volumes and unabsorbed fixed costs and $3 million related to clean-up costs that have been excluded from the adjusted EBITDA.
Business conditions remained challenging in the TiO2 market.
Average TiO2 selling prices decreased further from the second quarter.
The decline was most pronounced in North America where prices declined approximately 8% compared to the prior quarter.
Prices in Europe were essentially flat.
We are determined to deliver incremental synergy and restructuring savings of more than $100 million in this business by the middle of 2016.
In the fourth quarter we expect a typical seasonal slowdown in demand.
Before sharing some concluding thoughts I'd like to turn a few minutes over to Kimo Esplin our Chief Financial Officer.
Thanks Peter.
Let's go to slide 8.
Our adjusted EBITDA decreased to $311 million in the third quarter of 2015 from $356 million in the prior-year period.
The foreign currency negative EBITDA impact of approximately $43 million was primarily from the stronger U.S.
dollar against major European currencies.
Average selling prices decreased at a more modest pace than raw material costs which led to an overall improvement in margins of $14 million.
The benefit of adding the Rockwood Performance Additives and TiO2 business contributed $14 million.
Adjusting for the Rockwood business EBITDA contribution our legacy sales volumes decreased.
Compared to the prior quarter our adjusted EBITDA decreased to $311 million from $385 million in the second quarter.
The benefit of having a full quarter of PO/MTBE production contributed approximately $35 million.
Lower sales volumes and lower margins reduced earnings by approximately $86 million.
Slide 9.
We have aggressively reduced our planned capital expenditures.
Our previous guidance was that we expected to spend approximately $525 million per year on capital expenditures in 2016 and 2017.
We've reduced our planned capital expenditures to $450 million annually in 2016 and 2017 now.
That represents a total reduction of $150 million over the next two years.
We view our annual maintenance capital requirements including our environmental health safety needs as approximately $250 million.
We have provided an approximate allocation by division as to how we expect the $450 million to be spent in 2016.
Approximately $10 million of the Pigments allocation is relating to restructuring.
The bulk of the capital investment is being spent in our Polyurethanes and Performance Products businesses.
We view these businesses as having the most growth potential in the near-term and we continue to invest in our Advanced Materials business as well specifically to support growth in the aerospace market.
Slide 10.
At the end of the quarter we had $1.2 billion of liquidity.
In August of this year we extended our term loan B by two years from 2017 to 2019.
In September we redeemed $198 million of our 8.625% senior subordinated notes due 2021 with cash on hand.
And we expect the annual interest savings to be about $17 million from the note redemption.
Our board recently authorized $150 million of share repurchases.
We intend to enter into a $100 million accelerated share repurchase transaction and we expect to begin the transaction soon and complete it within the next several months.
For modeling purposes I'd like to point out that we've completed the purchase accounting for Rockwood Performance Additives and TiO2 business and confirm that we expect our annual depreciation and amortization rate to be approximately $400 million per year.
Our adjusted effective income tax rate for the third quarter 2015 was 26% and we expect our long-term adjusted effective tax rate to be approximately 30%.
Improving free cash flow generation is one of our top financial objectives for the company.
In 2016 we expect our free cash flow to improve by at least $350 million.
Most of this will come from reduced capital expenditures lower cash payments for restructuring and lower plant maintenance and inspection costs.
Working capital movements have been challenging for many to forecast.
At the bottom of the slide we are showing our historical trends for primary working capital which we consider to be accounts receivable inventory and accounts payable.
Our strongest earnings quarters are generally the second and third.
As a result we generally build primary working capital in the first half of the year and reduce it in the second half.
As we track towards improving our free cash flow profile next year make sure these primary working capital trends are considered.
We report our quarterly primary working capital movements in Table 11 of our earnings release each quarter.
Let me reiterate we are fully committed to an improvement in our free cash flow generation.
Peter? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Kimo.
While our company and industry at large have been hit by a slowing China market and foreign currency headwinds I think it's worth reviewing where we are and the steps we are taking to create shareholder value.
I see four fundamental actions that we are executing to accomplish this.
First as was announced in our earnings release this morning we are preparing for the spin of our TiO2 businesses as soon as market conditions permit.
We are also aggressively pursuing other strategic options that will result in the separation of this business.
As we're actively involved in ongoing strategic discussions we will not be commenting further on the strategic options.
Again it is our intent to separate our TiO2 businesses and as quickly in value creating manner as conditions allow.
Incremental to third quarter results we are on track to accomplish more than $100 million of further synergy and restructuring savings in our Pigments and Additives division in the fourth quarter and through 2016.
Second the continued strength of our core businesses.
A year ago we generated record earnings from our non-Pigments division.
In our most recent quarter we were $28 million lower than a year ago from these same divisions.
We also had over $45 million of foreign exchange headwinds compared to the same period last year.
These divisions remained strong and they're the core of our business going forward.
Combined our Polyurethanes Performance Products and Advanced Materials divisions generated in excess of 18% EBITDA margins in the third quarter.
We continue to expand our downstream systems and formulations and expect 2016 to be a stronger year than 2015 in both EBITDA and free cash flow generation.
Third we're moving forward with a $100 million accelerated share repurchase that will buy an equity at what we believe our shares valued at a price did not fully reflect the strength of our company.
We expect this to be completed within the next several months.
Fourth we believe that our free cash flow generation is one of the quickest ways to achieve a higher multiple.
We have gone through an extensive review of our capital spending for this next year.
With the changing values of raw material slowing economic growth in China and other developing markets we've prioritized our spending around safety and reliability completing restructuring opportunities that we have previously announced and also investing in strategic growth opportunities.
Where we can delay or cancel projects we have done so.
In previous calls we have guided you to a 2016 number of $525 million in capital spending.
After our latest review we are now projecting next year's capital to be $450 million a drop of roughly $200 million from our 2015 spend.
In addition to this $200 million improvement we expect our cash restructuring cost to be $100 million lower and our planned maintenance to be $50 million less.
All told we expect our EBITDA to improve next year and our cash generation to be $350 million higher.
In short we will separate our TiO2 business earn greater EBITDA and generate stronger cash flows while lowering our share count.
We've not seen a more transformative strategy since going public.
With that I'll turn the call back to Kurt.
Investor Relations</strong> Thank you Peter.
Carolyn will you explain the procedure for questions and then open the line for the questions to be taken? Okay.
Thank you.
And the first question comes from the line of Bob Koort from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thank you very much.
Peter can you give us some sense? Your urgency to spend TiO2 seems somewhat challenged by a lack of profitability there.
So is there an earnings threshold you have in mind before you could do an encouraging spin or is it possible to spin even if you have these trough-like conditions? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I think Bob you need to have a viable ongoing business.
It's going to have a positive cash flow.
Now I think that as we look at our savings so far this year we believe that through the end of 2015 we'll accomplish $75 million of savings in our Pigments and Additives business.
We'll have another at least $100 million through 2016.
In addition to that $100 million we'll have another $30 million of cost savings through the startup of our Augusta color pigment facility.
So $175 million to $200 million of cost savings coming into this division.
But I think that before we spin it we obviously have to have a viable ongoing business that is able to generate meaningful positive cash flow.
Exactly where that is in the cycle? I wouldn't say that we're exactly sure down to the penny but I do believe that we'll be in a position hopefully in the middle or latter part of this next year.
Ongoing CapEx in that business is probably going to be around $60 million $70 million.
So obviously you need EBITDA in excess of that to be cash-flow positive if it's modestly leveraged.
And historically when you talked about your CapEx spending it's been in a lens of a growth company and some specialty assets in particular.
I'm just curious as you've gone back and audited the performance of that expenditure level has it met your expectations? Has the tougher environment diminished those returns? And of the increment that's still a growth cap spending over your maintenance CapEx looking forward to 2016 and 2017 can you give us some sense what the return hurdles are there? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
As we look at our past capital expenditures I think that as we look at areas like MDI and our margins on a per pound basis in MDI we're significantly better off today than we were for instance in the last recession that we were a couple of years ago.
And I think that the earnings and the margin levels particularly in the downstream on MDI are certainly stronger today and they're more stable today.
And I think that's a direct result of that investment.
As I look at the growth of our amines and the growth of our maleic anhydride both the margins and the growth in the earnings and the volume of those businesses I think that has been significant.
I also look at the growth that we've seen in the aerospace industry around our Advanced Materials.
So I think that all of those have been fundamentally sound investments.
Going forward I think that we obviously were – I have tried to look at – perhaps the biggest change that we've seen in some of our CapEx going forward has been the loss of the margins that an ethane to ethylene supply chain would have given you compared to just a couple of quarters ago.
And I think that that lost in that margin and also the slowdown of demand that we've seen this past year particularly in the Chinese market we're not going to be investing capital in markets that have seen significant slowdown in their growth.
So I think that again as I mentioned in my comments we want to make sure that we stay focused on where we can create value on a per pound basis on our downstream businesses.
And Bob as we look at incremental discretionary capital sort of over and above that environmental health and safety threshold we are looking at things that are unleveraged IRR of 20% or better.
Great.
Thanks guys.
Thank you for that question.
The next question we have comes from the line of Jim Sheehan from SunTrust.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Peter could you give us your current outlook on MDI operating rates by region? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I think that as we look at that on a by-region basis and again as I look at that on a regional basis I don't have the information as to what competitors are doing.
And so as I look at that it's – I'm taking a stab at these sort of rates.
But if I look at the Asia market you're probably looking at somewhere in the very high-70%s to around an 80% capacity utilization.
As I look around Europe you're probably in the high 80%s to 90% capacity utilization.
And the Americas is somewhere around the 90% capacity utilization.
I will remind you that those are very macro numbers on the industry.
And as you look at your downstream businesses where we have seen margins fall on the more commoditized end of our MDI supply chain on the more specialty end of the MDI supply chain many of those grades I won't say that they are impervious to supply capacity utilization but they're far less sensitive to capacity operating rates.
I'd also remind you that as you look at some of those downstream derivative products you may be long in Asia but shipping a lot of those products cryogenically where you have – it's very expensive to ship and the longer those products are on the water if you will they start to discolor and so forth.
So the idea that you've got too much capacity in one region and perhaps better balance in another that doesn't necessarily mean that the balanced region is going to be flooded by the region that's overbalanced.
So I hope that makes sense.
What I'm trying to say it's more than just a simple capacity rate exercise to see where profitability is in polyurethanes.
And maybe specifically I can add Jim again we mentioned that 30% of our urethane business is this component business and we mentioned the China component margins have dropped where in China roughly half of our business is component.
But in the Americas and in Europe our margins have remained relatively healthy in that component area.
So it's been primarily limited to sort of Chinese pressure right now.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks a lot for all the detail.
And moving over to TiO2 do you see any more opportunity for Huntsman to do capacity rationalization there or do you expect that to occur with one of your competitors? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I probably shouldn't be commenting on what our competitors may or may not do with their capacity utilization.
As I look at the steps that Huntsman has taken to rationalize capacity and also permanently close capacity I think that on a percentage basis at least from that information that's been publicly released we have been the industry's leader in this area.
And I think that as we look at this this is something that we're going to continue to assess internally and I think that we've taken some very bold steps in this direction.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much.
Thank you for the question.
The next question we have comes from the line of John Roberts from UBS.
Please go ahead.
John you're live on the call.
You may have yourself on mute.
Yes.
Hi.
Can you hear me now? Investor Relations</span></strong> We can.
Yeah.
Hi.
Guys the focus has been on exiting the lower value businesses.
Any thought to monetizing the higher value businesses? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I think that it's fair to say that as a company we're continuously reviewing strategic alternatives and ways to improve and increase shareholder value.
Are we out actively trying to monetize or try to sell the higher value-added ends of the business? No we're not.
But again I think that we owe to our shareholders to continuously be looking at our portfolio and see where we can create the most value.
Okay.
And then is it fair to say that any strategic options you pursue in TiO2 will be unlikely to require more cash in? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you for that question.
The next question comes from the line of P.J.
Juvekar from Citi.
Please go ahead.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yes.
Hi.
Thank you.
Kimo a quick question for you.
Last year you talked about free cash flow about a year ago and how management was being compensated on it.
But then we haven't had much free cash flow since then.
Does a decline in TiO2 explain most of it? P.J.
no we've been consistent with the story.
We told you and the market repeatedly that 2015 was an investment year where we wouldn't have a lot of free cash flow.
We had $200 million of restructuring in the Rockwood business.
We told you that we are going to have at least $100 million of capital to replace IT systems within Rockwood.
2015 was never going to be a very good free cash flow year.
We've always focused you on 2017 and we said that that was a $700 million free cash flow year.
And we've recently said that 2016 would be $350 million better than 2015.
So well on our way to that $700 million number.
But 2015 never was going to be a good free cash flow year.
Now management is paid on free cash flow.
It is relative to budget and we have budgeted pretty where we're coming out in 2015.
It was going to be for the most part a break-even year from free cash flow.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you for that.
And then just sort of overall question one of your customers was commenting on Henan Billions and improvement in quality of their chloride TiO2 product.
What's your view on that? And if that's successful would you encourage others to build more chloride TiO2 plants? Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Again P.J.
I don't think I'm in a position to comment on what competitors may or may not build.
I would say that at the present market conditions with TiO2 whether you're a chloride producer or a sulfate producer whether you're in China or in North America whether you have low cost gas or whether you have cheap labor in today's margins I'd just be shocked if anybody is out there looking at investing money in new TiO2 capacity thinking that this is a wise move.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> And specifically the chloride I mean in a given region I would suggest that probably margins for sulfate and chloride are pretty similar.
So it doesn't appear to me that there is any advantage for chloride in Asia where you have sulfate and chloride or in Europe where you have sulfate and chloride.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question we have comes from the line of Aleks Yefremov.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you and good morning.
Could you comment on your fourth quarter EBITDA outlook? I think in your prior press release you had expected around $300 million.
Is this still the goal? Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I think that as we look at our fourth quarter we're probably looking at a very similar fourth quarter to last year.
I don't think that we're going to see the large seasonal drop-off from third quarter to fourth quarter that we typically see in this business because I think a lot of our third quarter volume some of that was pushed into the fourth quarter and some of the margin that we would like to have seen in the third quarter we pushed into the fourth quarter.
But as I sit here and look today very early in the fourth quarter we haven't gotten any results from the fourth quarter just looking at order patterns and so forth I think it's going to look similar to where we were a year ago in our fourth quarter earnings.
I would just say that if I have a concern I look at the C-Factors of MTBE which change on a daily basis and they're about 40% lower than they were a year ago.
That's a large volume commodity product that we have and it's about 50% lower than it was in the third quarter from where we sit today.
So that's something that changes on a regular basis.
Also I'd say that as we look at the North American price on TiO2 going into the fourth quarter it appears that there continues to be slippage on that North American TiO2 price going into fourth quarter and what impact that's going to have in other regions on pricing and so forth it's simply too early to tell.
But those are probably two variables that we'll be commenting on further in conferences and so forth as we get further into the quarter.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you Peter.
And a follow-up question on your MDI volume softness in the Americas what was the reason behind that? Is there any connection with what's happening in MDI in Asia? Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No I don't think that it's any connection with MDI in Asia.
I think that we've had year-to-date looking at the numbers.
I think that we just had a slower construction market than we would have expected.
And as we look at some of the construction and the insulation markets and so forth those have been softer than I would have expected.
They were particularly softer at the beginning of the year.
And as you've seen with housing starts and so forth we've seen a stronger number late in the third quarter beginning of the fourth quarter.
So I think a later start than what most people probably anticipated including us.
But I don't see a lot of MDI products that are produced in North America that are shipped to Asia that would be adversely affected by the slowdown in Asia.
And that insulation construction market that we're pointing to that was soft for us is largely a commercial construction market for us.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much.
Thank you.
The next question we have comes from the line of Frank Mitsch of Wells Fargo Securities.
Please go ahead.
Good morning gentlemen.
And Kimo congratulations on doing the refinancing when the debt windows were much more attractive than they are today.
So kudos in that regard.
Peter you've mentioned that you're expecting 2016 EBITDA to be higher than 2015.
And I was wondering does that also include TiO2 since we do seem to be exiting 2015 with a bit of a whimper and probably not large reasons for optimism in 2016 other than perhaps the self-help stuff that you guys are doing.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I would say that we're entering the end of the year at the TiO2 market with probably more of a howl than a whimper.
But as I look throughout the next year in TiO2 again with the cost-cutting and so forth that is coming into place Huntsman will be taking every advantage we possibly can to increase prices should market conditions so warrant.
And I would be very hopeful that fourth quarter 2016 TiO2 margins are certainly going to be better than they are today for this company.
As I look around the rest of the company I do see expanded growth in our margins.
This past year in 2015 we had a very large maintenance shutdown in the first quarter that was planned that we won't be having this next year.
We'll have the benefit of a new ethylene oxide facility and the downstream derivatives that that will be bringing.
And we'll have some of the benefits of continued growth in aerospace and the automotive market and our downstream businesses.
So yes I think in our next conference call we'll probably be giving some more guidance on a division-by-division basis as to how we see 2016.
But right now if we see similar market conditions in 2016 to 2015 we certainly expect a stronger year from an EBITDA basis and from a free cash flow basis in 2016 than we've seen in 2015.
Assuming TiO2 is in both years on that comparison.
Again a 2016 year that may not be great for TiO2 but still will be better overall.
Okay.
Terrific.
That's helpful.
And just a follow-up.
You had mentioned obviously the 8% decline in North American pricing and you're seeing that continuing to slip here in North America in Q4 I believe you just said.
What are you seeing in Europe and Asia in that regard? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well we look at dollar pricing.
Again we sell product in Europe both in euros and in dollars but I'll do dollar pricing just because it's easier to track global prices that way.
And from the second to the third quarter in our pricing I'm just talking about Huntsman here prices were only $2 difference per ton one quarter to next.
I mean they really were absolutely flat whereas in that same time period you saw a better than a $200 a ton fall from the second to the third quarter.
So I'd like to think and I think I've called the bottom of the TiO2 market in the previous five conference calls I'd like to think that as you look at the European TiO2 pricing we're not seeing erosion from the second to the third quarter.
Now I didn't say anything about the fourth quarter because we're still out trying to keep prices stable or increase if we possibly can in face of a falling North American market.
But as we look at the European pricing from second to third quarter it looks like you've hit a bottom here.
And as you look at the APAC on a dollar basis prices fell there about $75 a ton and NAFTA again with over $200 a ton.
So I'd like to think we've hit the bottom in that European market.
Asia the drop in pricing in Asia seems to be slowing and NAFTA is rapidly catching Asia and Europe.
Whereas we started the year with almost a $600 – well in the first quarter almost a $600 per ton differential between U.S.
and European dollar prices.
We're probably going to be ending the year at close to $200 a ton differential...
Terrific.
That's great.
...which is about the freight cost to get product from point A to point B globally.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Terrific.
Thank you so much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you Frank.
Thank you.
The next question we have comes from the line of Hassan Ahmed from Alembic Global.
Please go ahead.
Morning Peter.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Morning Hassan.
Peter a quick question on the MDI side of things.
One of your competitors one of your sort of publicly-traded U.S.
company competitors talked about polyurethane strength and they particularly cited China in Q3.
So I'm just trying to get a sense.
I mean my understanding is you guys obviously saw weakness in the overall MDI market.
I'm just trying to get a sense was it sort of share losses? Was it de-stocking? Was it the overall market compressing? Or a combination of all three? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I think there's the trend – first of all I'm not aware of any customer that we have lost or any market share that we have lost in the Chinese market in the third quarter.
So I think that what we saw in the third quarter and I compare that with other products within Huntsman in the third quarter I compare that with what some of our largest Chinese competitor has seen in past quarters and what some of our other competitors that have Chinese manufacturing footprints have reported in China I don't think that our numbers are at all inconsistent with what others have done.
The company and I'm not sure we're both talking about the same company you made reference to earlier but they probably may have other urethane products in their portfolio maybe starting from a different volume base than what Huntsman has.
I'm just – again without looking at details on the numbers can't accurately comment on that.
But again I think that the market conditions that we're seeing in China we certainly are not losing customers or market share.
And I think that we supply into everything from automotive to construction to footwear to personal products consumer products and so forth.
I think we have a very wide base that's reflective of the overall Chinese GDP.
Very fair.
And moving on to TiO2 you guys talked about the pricing differential between Europe and the U.S.
compressing from if I remember correctly $600 a ton to $200 a ton.
And obviously this was one of the reasons why over the last couple of quarters we saw sort of pricing come down in the U.S.
Has this sort of reduction in that differential actually resulted in lesser European product coming to the U.S.? Have you started seeing that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I would still – I again can't comment on competitors.
Huntsman internally we will continue to take advantage of places where we can move our product and ship our product at a higher price and where we have opportunity to do that in North America.
We not only have North American production but we also have routes to market from Europe to North America.
We'll continue to aggressively take advantage of that.
Super.
Thanks so much Peter.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Mike Ritzenthaler from Piper Jaffray.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Good morning.
Yes.
In terms of cost and productivity Peter you had obviously mentioned pigment synergies as ongoing.
The reductions in CapEx I think make a lot of sense.
But what role can cost efficiencies in the core businesses play in achieving some of the profit growth that you've outlined in the pre- (43:02) – because it sounds as though you're more or less satisfied with the structure of the core segments? Is that fair? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I think that as we look at the restructuring that we've done through the company I look at that very much like I would CapEx expenditures where we're investing cash investing dollars in divisions and we want to make sure that we are restructuring the cost of those businesses to take into account what we see in global trends and growth and so forth.
So two years ago and this past year and finishing up earlier this year we spent considerable amount of money in our Textile Effects and in our Advanced Materials divisions.
And I think that's money very well spent and the impact of that is reflective in our expanded margins which have almost doubled in Advanced Materials.
It has gone from a solid negative number to a near double-digit sort of number in Textile Effects.
So I think that as we look at that cost basis within the company I don't know if I'm ever happy with where we are as far as our cost structure there's always room for improvement but I think that we're in a comfortable zone right now.
Okay.
Okay.
That's helpful.
On de-selection of businesses within certain markets you had emphasized that in a couple of the core segments as well how should we think about the potential for further calling in 4Q and 2016? Is this going to be a theme that is ongoing for a period of time? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I don't believe so.
This is part of the restructuring of our Advanced Materials and Textile Effects and I think that's where you've seen the vast majority if not all of that de-selection taking place.
We've shut down some of our uncompetitive sites and distribution networks with distributors and so forth.
And if customers are unwilling to pay what we believe the product is worth and the service is worth and somebody a competitor is willing to lose money on an account that – I'm not going to chase after that sort of business.
But I think that as we look at our existing production facilities and our existing customer base I think those are pretty well matched.
And I think that through 2016 you certainly will see far less de-selection than in 2015 because I think we've got a very well balanced match between our customer base today the volumes that they're taking and our production base today.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Thank you Peter.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Mike.
Thank you.
The next question we have comes from the line of Laurence Alexander from Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Just a quick one.
Given the curtailment in your CapEx is there any impact on your operating leverage if demand – if volumes do improve in 2017 2018 or how do you think about operating leverage? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think we've got sufficient capacity in our business today.
We've got sufficient de-bottleneck capacity in our businesses today.
And many of these projects we have delayed and some of them that we've canceled.
Those that we've canceled as we look at those Laurence I think that we probably – if the demand all of a sudden globally were to return to where it was maybe two years ago or something you see near double-digit growth in China and so forth I think we could resuscitate those projects as quickly as we'd need to.
But again I think that where we see global trends kind of moving in the next year or two years and our CapEx budget over the course of the next two years I think that we're going to be able to achieve reliability we're going to be able to achieve downstream differentiation and some small strategic growth where we need to.
Specifically the $450 million will allow us to de-bottleneck our amines plant in Singapore.
We have de-bottlenecks as Peter mentioned in both Rosenberg and in Geismar in MDI but also it includes an expansion of our multi-functional product that goes into aerospace for Advanced Materials.
In all of those key areas that includes completion of the current projects that I think we have disclosed in our conferences and have a slide on.
And then separately on Advanced Materials can you give a little bit of granularity about which end markets you've seen particular weakness in? And was it just a pause that you saw related to the lull that you saw in Chinese orders or is it an ongoing erosion in activity? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Just looking for some more granular data here on Advanced Materials.
Well so aerospace as you know has continued to be fairly strong.
The area that we tend to de-select and hasn't been all that strong for us is coatings and construction.
We have seen some strength in wind in that business just recently and our electrical insulating businesses have been fairly strong there.
But generally consistent with what Peter mentioned around urethanes we saw Asia as a soft market for us in the third quarter.
Across the company we were close to double-digit volumes down in Asia for the third quarter and that's part of what prompted our pre-release that we saw a very soft August particularly in China.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question we have comes from the line of David Wang from Morningstar.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thank you for taking my question.
Just wanted to ask a little bit more about polyurethane volumes and margins.
How much of the EBITDA growth that you expect should be predicated on China growth at current levels or a little higher weaker than we saw in Q3? I'm wondering because we've seen some capacity additions by yourself and competitors in the region and just as we're seeing demand sort of decelerating.
So it'd be great if you can add some color on that.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think that as we look at our MDI growth in margin and in volume I would put much greater emphasis on what we're seeing in Europe and North America both in margin expansion and to some degree volume expansion given the fact that these two products – or these two markets alone make up greater than 80% of our overall demand globally.
Again China's a great market.
It's always going to be there and it's going to be longer-term.
It's going to be a continuously growing market for us.
But when we talk about MDI and we talk about polyurethanes we talk about downstream differentiation we talk about where we have our lowest cost production platforms where we have the most extensive networks they're in North America and Europe and that will be where the future of our margin expansion overall for the company is going to be.
And the expansion we've done in China specifically in MDI is a plant with BASF that is a 2018 plant.
And so that is out there a ways.
We're currently selling all of our product that is produced in China and MDI we're completely sold out.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Matter of fact we're importing MDI into China and buying product for resale in China.
So it's a good market for us.
Okay.
Great.
And your margins in Performance Products and Advanced Materials continues to be pretty high this quarter versus the past couple of years.
I was wondering if you can talk a little bit more about how much of that is attributable to the cost cuts within your control versus lower raw material costs? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think that when we look at Performance Products most of the earnings there two-thirds of the earnings there is coming from our amines and our maleic anhydride businesses.
Those are businesses that have really not benefited a great deal by falling raw materials or by cutting costs.
They benefited by the past capital that we've invested in those businesses and new capacities and building up on our routes to market.
When we look at our Advanced Materials again I think that the overall business that certainly benefited in the margin expansion has taken place by cost-cutting.
But going forward I think that when we look at the growth that's taking place in the automotive industry the aerospace industry DIY industry and so forth and our epoxies in Composites division most of that growth is going to be taking place in expanding our customer base and our technology.
Great.
Thank you for taking my questions.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Roger Spitz from Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Morning Roger.
Can you break the Pigments and Additives Q3 EBITDA of $5 million down between the TiO2 and non-TiO2 EBITDA? And of the $39 million for the year-over-year the $39 million from Rockwood can you tell us what part of the $39 million was TiO2? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah sure.
Just pulling that up here Roger.
Great.
So Roger so we mentioned that the Rockwood business contributed roughly $15 million in the quarter and that business was impacted roughly another $5 million for the blast we had.
So you can pro forma that up by another $5 million so call it $20 million if you will.
When you look at the overall business the TiO2 business had a negative EBITDA of $10 million.
Again Rockwood being a positive EBITDA the Huntsman legacy business being negative EBITDA.
Okay.
And the year-over-year the $39 million how much of that was TiO2 from Rockwood? From Rockwood? Yeah.
The $39 million from Q3 2014 right $18 million was your TiO2? Yeah.
Sorry.
It was almost all of our legacy business was impacted.
I think year-over-year there was a $27 million reduction in EBITDA from our legacy Huntsman TiO2 business if that helps.
Okay.
And lastly you said a third of the Performance Products EBITDA was from the upstream ethylene intermediates and surfactants.
I wonder how much of that 33% is (55:03) just ethylene cracker itself.
It feels like the vast majority of that might be that.
Would that be a fair comment? No.
The surfactants business is the most part of toll business and it makes up most of that.
Most of that.
Okay.
And glycol – surfactants and glycol that third yeah.
So you're saying that the Port Neches ethylene is a much smaller part of that? Well it's a 400 million pound cracker.
It's not a massive contributor to EBITDA here.
And it does contribute and we like it but it's not most of that one-third.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
So it's maybe somewhere around a third of the earnings of that surfactants and what we would say the upstream business.
All right.
Thank you very much.
Investor Relations</span></strong> Carolyn this is Kurt.
I believe we have time for one more question.
Okay.
We have another question from the line of Herb Hardt from Monness.
Please go ahead.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Morning.
My question is back to TiO2 and can you give us a sense of operating rates for the company by region? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah sort of just pulling that up.
I think that as we look at it on a global basis the operating rates again it's tough to see competitor capacity here.
There is no published data in that area.
It feels like we're probably globally somewhere around 80% low-80%s capacity utilization.
And I think that as we look in each of the regions I think it's probably within a couple of points of that that low- to mid-80% capacity utilization.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you very much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Investor Relations</strong> This is Kurt.
We want to thank everybody for joining us on the call today and we will I'm sure speak to you during the course of the quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you Kurt.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference ladies and gentlemen.
That concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q4 2015 Huntsman Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Latoya and I will be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to the Vice President of Investor Relations and Finance Kurt Ogden.
Please proceed sir.
Investor Relations</strong> Thank you Latoya and welcome to Huntsman's fourth quarter 2015 earnings call.
Joining us on the call today are Peter Huntsman President and CEO; and Kimo Esplin Executive Vice President and CFO.
This morning before the market opened we released our earnings for the fourth quarter and full-year 2015 via press release and posted it on our website huntsman.com.
We also posted a set of slides on our website which we intend to use on the call this morning in the discussion of our results.
During this call we may make statements about our projections or expectations for the future.
All such statements are forward-looking statements and while they reflect our current expectations they involve risks and uncertainties and are not guarantees of future performance.
You should review our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for more information regarding the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these projections or expectations.
We do not plan on publicly updating or revising any forward-looking statements during the quarter.
In addition we will also refer to non-GAAP financial measures such as EBITDA adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income or loss.
You can find reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in our earnings release which has been posted on our website at huntsman.com.
In our earnings release this morning we reported fourth quarter 2015 revenue of $2 332 million adjusted EBITDA of $240 million and adjusted earnings per share of $0.51 per diluted share.
I will now turn the call over to Peter Huntsman our President and CEO.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Good morning everybody.
Thank you Kurt.
Let's turn to slide number three.
Adjusted EBITDA for our Polyurethanes division in the fourth quarter 2015 was $141 million.
The majority of our company's foreign currency exposures was in this business.
Compared to the prior year we experienced $12 million of negative EBITDA from foreign currency exchange as a result of the stronger U.S.
dollar primarily against the euro.
Our MDI urethanes margins expanded compared to the prior year and the prior quarter primarily due to lower raw material costs.
Our differentiated MDI products delivered approximately 20% EBITDA margins.
Competitive business conditions for component MDI are challenging.
We continue to drive for greater differentiation independent of MDI utilization rates.
Approximately 70% of our 2016 capital expenditures are targeted on our downstream differentiated MDI business.
During the quarter demand for MDI increased modestly by 2% compared to the prior year.
Demand was stable in Europe and the Americas whereas volumes improved in Asia in part due to competitor maintenance outages.
During the year demand improved 6% in Europe which is our largest market as demand for automotive commercial installation and composite wood product applications demonstrated attractive growth.
Our fourth quarter PO/MTBE EBITDA declined $30 million compared to the prior year.
MTBE is valued as an octane enhancer and fuel oxygenate.
MTBE margins decreased in line with lower prices for high octane gasoline.
In 2016 we expect our MDI urethanes EBITDA to increase modestly.
The lower-priced oil environment will reduce MTBE margins.
However we won't repeat the significant maintenance outage we had in the first half of 2015 which decreased EBITDA by approximately $95 million.
All in EBITDA for our Polyurethanes business will improve in 2016.
Let's turn to slide number four.
The fourth quarter our Performance Products division recorded adjusted EBITDA of $76 million.
Compared to the prior year we experienced $8 million of negative EBITDA from foreign currency exchange as a result of the stronger U.S.
dollar primarily against the euro.
Generally speaking approximately two-thirds of the earnings from this division are generated from amines and maleic anhydride where we have leading market positions.
Compared to the prior year EBITDA for this portion of the business increased primarily due to strong margins for amines notwithstanding increased competition for volumes in amines and maleic.
The other one-third of this business is comprised of surfactants and ethylene intermediates.
We produce internally approximately half of our ethylene needs and transfer it at market economics through our downstream businesses.
Ethylene and other olefin margins decreased significantly in the quarter.
As a result the EBITDA contribution from our surfactants and ethylene intermediates contributed less than 20% of the EBITDA of the division this quarter.
In the first half of 2016 we will benefit from our ethylene oxide expansion and towards the end of the year we'll benefit from our polyether amines expansion.
We expect lower margins in surfactants and ethylene intermediates to offset earnings growth in our amines maleic anhydride businesses and ethylene oxide expansion such that 2016 EBITDA will be similar to 2015.
Let's turn to slide number five.
In the fourth quarter adjusted EBITDA in our Advanced Materials division improved by $5 million from the prior year to $48 million with an EBITDA margin of 19%.
While our cost reductions aerospace capacity increases and customer rationalization now complete we are seeing this division's stability and strength.
EBITDA margins have consistently been around 20% during 2015 in part reflecting the quality of this business.
More than one third of the earnings from this business are generated from the aerospace market where we supply epoxy resins and hardeners used in composites.
Our products are qualified and in many cases are required on long multi-year production runs of new generation aircraft.
We expect EBITDA in 2016 to improve modestly in this business.
Turning to slide number six.
Our Textile Effects division reported adjusted EBITDA of $13 million in the fourth quarter an increase of $7 million compared to the prior year.
We've targeted key markets such as China India and Bangladesh to grow our business.
These efforts have been successful as sales volumes in key markets grew approximately 5% in the fourth quarter compared to the prior year.
Overall our sales volumes decreased as we deselected certain lower value businesses and experienced challenging market conditions in South America and Europe.
Contribution margins increased as raw material cost decreased and our focus on higher value product ranges.
In 2016 we expect fabric and garment differentiation requirements to increase as we expect continued demand growth in our key markets.
We expect EBITDA in 2016 to improve moderately.
Slide number seven.
Our Pigments and Additives division had break even adjusted EBITDA in the fourth quarter.
Business conditions remain challenging for the TiO2 market.
Compared to the prior year our sales volumes decreased primarily due to lower demand.
Average TiO2 selling prices decreased further from the third quarter.
The decline was most pronounced in North America where prices are higher than other regions.
We are encouraged by the recent TiO2 price increase announcements and are optimistic the industry will implement TiO2 price increases through 2016.
We are determined to deliver incremental synergy and restructuring savings of more than $100 million from this business in 2016.
Pressure on TiO2 selling prices will linger through the first quarter of 2016 before we start to see benefit from the announced price increase.
We expect EBITDA to be slightly positive in 2016.
Before sharing some concluding thoughts I'd like to turn a few minutes over to Kimo Esplin our Chief Financial Officer.
Thanks Peter.
Let's go to Slide 8.
Our adjusted EBITDA decreased to $240 million in the fourth quarter of 2015 from $292 million in the prior period.
Lower global economic growth and customer de-stocking led to lower sales volumes which impacted our EBITDA by approximately $42 million.
The foreign currency negative EBITDA impact of approximately $24 million was primarily from the stronger U.S.
dollar against the euro.
Average selling prices decreased at a more modest pace than raw material costs which led to an overall improvement in margins of $25 million.
Compared to the prior quarter our adjusted EBITDA decreased to $240 million from $312 million in the third quarter.
Lower sales volume from seasonality was amplified by customer destocking as many customers took advantage of deflationary pricing environment to reduce inventory within their respective supply chains.
Slide 9.
At the end of the quarter we had liquidity of just over $1 billion.
In September of 2015 our board authorized the repurchase of up to $150 million of our common stock.
In October we entered into a funded and accelerated share repurchase agreement to purchase $100 million of our common stock.
The accelerated share repurchase program was completed in January of this year with 8.6 million shares repurchased.
For modeling purposes we expect our annual depreciation and amortization rate to be approximately $400 million in 2016.
The combination of effective tax planning and certain unusual tax benefits and the regional mix of income in the fourth quarter led to an unusually low tax rate for 2015.
We expect our 2016 and long-term adjusted effective tax rate to be approximately 30%.
During the fourth quarter 2015 the strong U.S.
dollar reduced adjusted EBITDA by an estimated $24 million compared to the prior year.
The full-year impact was approximately $136 million.
Our most significant foreign currency exposure is to the euro where our euro revenues were approximately €600 million higher than our euro costs annually.
Improving our free cash flow generation is a very high priority for the company.
With the Rockwood integration and restructuring in 2015 made for a transition year and we're excited to deliver improved free cash flow performance in 2016.
In 2016 we expect our free cash flow to improve by at least $350 million.
This will come from reduced capital expenditures lower cash payments for restructuring and lower maintenance costs.
As we track toward improving our free cash flow next year I want to make sure you're tuned into our working capital trends.
We consider primary working capital as accounts receivable inventories and accounts payable.
We report our quarterly primary working capital movements in our earnings release each quarter.
Our strongest earnings quarters are generally the second and third.
As a result we generally build primary working capital in the first half of the year and reduce it in the second half.
Peter? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Kimo.
As we conclude 2015 it is worthwhile to review a couple of the milestones that took place as these will certainly impact our business in 2016.
From a macroeconomic perspective we're expecting deflationary pressure on commodity prices such as oil and first-line derivatives.
This will be compounded with slower than traditional growth in Asia and China in particular.
While we expect North America and Europe to see marginal growth it will be in the very low single percentages.
We expect to see better than GDP growth in our amines MDI epoxy textile chemicals maleic and other downstream formulation businesses.
We also expect to see a margin expansion in these divisions as a whole.
With lower priced raw materials sales prices will drop in many of our products but margins should stay consistent.
With the fall of crude prices this past year we have seen the North American gas advantage that we have enjoyed these past couple of years substantially diminish.
This will put downward pressure on margins in MTBE olefins and other basic commodity chemicals.
As I outlined in my earlier comments we've announced a series of badly needed price increases in our TiO2 Pigments division.
Due to the lag time of pricing notification and the nature of pricing in the pigments industry we expect to see further softening of prices in the first quarter of this year.
We're in the process of meeting with customers and I am very encouraged by the feedback that I'm getting.
It is too early to state how much of an increase will occur.
As I look at order patterns and listen to customer feedback however I'm more encouraged today than I was a few weeks ago.
We expect to see some positive movement in the second quarter of this year.
I expect pigment prices to end the year stronger than we started the year.
Given how deep the hole we are starting the year I expect our Pigments and Additives to be slightly EBITDA positive.
Again we should see much better ending to the year than the start.
Taking all these variables into account we are expecting 2016 to be a stronger year in our downstream businesses and margin pressure on our upstream businesses and Pigments down slightly.
All in all we're expecting that the expansion of our downstream margins and capacities will offset our upstream margin erosion and we should see a similar EBITDA in 2016 compared to 2015.
In a low growth economic environment cash generation will be the single biggest objective we can do to create shareholder value.
In 2015 after finishing our Pigments restructuring and integration completing a number of global projects and a once every five year maintenance project we spent over $850 million.
In 2016 we will see our CapEx spending drop by $200 million and we'll spend $100 million less in restructuring and another $50 million less in operations as we haven't any large maintenance projects.
Tying this to our projected EBITDA we expect to generate a record $350 million in free cash flow improvements this year.
Should raw materials continue to see a continuation of recent trends we should also see added opportunities and improvements with our working capital.
We have a great deal of confidence in these projections as we control our CapEx and restructuring expenses.
With respect to our Pigments division we remain committed to spinning our TiO2 business as soon as market conditions permit.
We're aggressively pursuing a number of strategic options with this business and should we find an opportunity to create shareholder value by closing on one of these options we'll certainly do so as soon as possible.
If we look at our business without our existing TiO2 division we would be looking at 2016 as a record year for cash generation and EBITDA margins a materially different and stronger company than what we have today.
Obviously the conclusion of this separation is a very high priority for this company.
While 2016 will show signs of a macro economic malaise we have an opportunity to really change the profile and cash generation of this company.
This will be a year of real change and transformation that I'm very confident about as much of this change is wholly within our control.
On the second of March next month our senior management will be presenting our company and more details behind this transformation.
We look forward to seeing many of you at this event and details of which are posted on our website at huntsman.com.
With that I will turn the time back over to Kurt.
Investor Relations</strong> Thank you Peter.
Latoya will you explain the procedure for Q&amp;A and then open the line for questions please? And your first question comes from Bob Koort with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hello Bob? Your line is open.
Please check your mute feature sir.
Your next question comes from James Sheehan with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Please proceed.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
Just curious about the effect of low oil prices on the overall portfolio.
It looks like you're thinking that it's not going to be a net headwind now given the effects on cyclical businesses.
Can you talk about how you've seen the effects of oil progress over the last year? And is there a difference in your mix from earlier that's causing you to think that this is not a net tailwind any longer? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I think that as we look at oil prices I think that we'd be a little too narrow in our view of the company to just look at oil prices in and of themselves.
As oil prices are going down because of sluggish economic demand you're going to see a push downward in margins regardless of what happens to oil prices.
If oil prices are falling because there's a glut of oil on the market that's quite another scenario.
I think that when we look back a year ago at this time we saw better economic conditions a year ago at this time and oil was falling because there was a glut of it on the market.
I think as we look at the overall market today oil prices are down.
But it feels like the economy is a little softer than it was a year ago.
So I mean forgive me I think that as we look at the overall market certainly with what we've seen with the drop of oil this last year a year ago at this time being in the mid-$70s a barrel and during the fourth quarter in the low $40s a barrel and today being around $30 a barrel we're certainly not going to see the fall of oil prices this year in 2016 as we saw in 2015 because that means oil would be down to like $2 a barrel.
But I think that that will certainly put pressure on margins of those products that benefit most from the U.S.
differentiation of gas prices and global crude prices.
That would be MTBE ethylene and first-line ethylene derivatives if you will.
And I think it also should allow us probably on a quarterly not on a yearly basis but on a short-term basis to be able to capture some of the margin on falling raw material prices as we saw in the fourth quarter.
We saw some pretty strong MDI margins compared to what we're expecting because of falling raw material prices.
We were able to keep some of that added margin.
So I think again it's going to be a combination of lower raw materials.
It's going to be coupled with economic growth and how that will determine the economic vitality will determine how well we're able to keep that expanded margin.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
And on MDI could you please give us your view on operating rates by region and what your outlook is for the full-year 2016 on those? Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well as we look globally we're probably somewhere in the mid maybe even the mid to upper 80%s in operating rates.
Again that's going to kind of break that into two areas.
One is going to be your regional operating rates.
Europe I think is probably around 90% U.S.
is probably in the low to mid-90%s and China would be in I would suspect in the mid to upper 70 percentile.
But as I mentioned in the call on the commodities side of the MDI molecule you're going to see more challenging market conditions on the MDI formulation derivatives for their downstream.
We continue to see very high teens pushing a 20% EBITDA to sales margin.
So obviously the further downstream you go the more specialty you go and the less impact capacity utilization is going to have on that.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from Bob Koort with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed.
Thanks for the do-over.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey Bob.
Peter I was wondering if you guys have ever tried to quantify what you think the impairment on the enterprise value is by having the TiO2 business as a part of the portfolio? And I recognize the positive commentary you made about your growth businesses but have you guys ever looked at what you think the dent is to shareholders from having the two businesses attached? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes we have.
I think that as we do that that's why we are pushing as aggressively as we can of the separation.
And I think that as we've talked to a number of shareholders and I think that the views on that obviously are scattered all over the place.
But by and large I think that people feel that the TiO2 market is as bad as it's going to get and let's do something that will allow us to participate perhaps to some degree in some of the future expansion of value which would argue for a spin or something of that nature a joint venture or something.
And let's not panic.
But absolutely this enterprise value is going to be better off with the separation of the two businesses.
Bob I think we guided to a similar EBITDA in 2016.
I think that suggests that we're trading at roughly five times.
And that is really zero value for a TiO2 pigments business.
And we think on a more normalized basis we'll have $2 billion $2.5 billion worth of value.
So again we are trading at five times with $2 billion $2.5 billion of upside in TiO2.
And I think our peers are a couple of turns of EBITDA ahead of us that have a texture of businesses that look an awful lot like our Advanced Materials Polyurethanes and Performance Products businesses.
So if that helps you it's probably two turns of EBITDA plus some upside in TiO2 that we're not getting value for.
That's helpful.
And then when you bought Rockwood I recall at the time there was some comfort in the stability of the non-TiO2 pigments and the combination of that and restructuring savings could offset some weakness in TiO2.
Can you tell us what's gone on on the path to those restructuring savings? And then also how the non-TiO2 pigment earnings have trended? Thanks.
Sure.
So if you'll recall we had suggested a normalized EBITDA in the Rockwood businesses of $200 million.
For 2015 the Rockwood businesses will do $115 million.
Obviously that suggests our own TiO2 businesses is significantly negative.
That was the business that we also thought on a normalized basis would be about $200 million.
So the Rockwood businesses have been disappointing.
The Additives businesses have been very stable as shown in the $115 million and they have a more specialty TiO2 profile.
So relative to the $1 billion $1.1 billion that we spent yes.
We're not at that $200 million.
We have another $100 million of synergies to go.
We told the market at the time we'd have $130 million total and we've suggested that we're going to be at about $175 million.
So it's not a complete bust.
At the bottom of the cycle again the Rockwood businesses will do $115 million this year.
Your next question comes from Aleksey Yefremov with Nomura Securities.
Please proceed.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
Thank you.
On the question of MDI margins were you ahead of the normal run rate in the fourth quarter because prices fell slower than raw materials? And do you expect margins in certainly in components and systems to decline in the first half of 2016 or be maintained at this level? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Pricing is always something that's very tough to speculate.
But as we look at our pricing overall we would certainly hope to be able to maintain our downstream formulation and more specialty side of that component.
And a lot of the variable that we see in MDI on the component side the more commoditized side is pressure in China where the preponderance of capacity in China is more component and more commodity-oriented.
And we've got a very large competitor there that just had some of their larger facilities down in the fourth and first quarter on some maintenance and we've also got Chinese New Year taking place right now.
So I think we're probably going to be in a much better position here in a couple of weeks perhaps our Investor Day to give some further light as to where we see – really how we see the year starting out with MDI demand.
But again I think that as we look at the overall mix between differentiated and our component businesses the movement we started a couple of years ago to move as much of our MDI into differentiated margins and differentiated consuming applications certainly was the right one.
And the margins and the strength of that business has borne that out.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you Peter.
And as a follow up on free cash flow you have a bridge on Slide 9 which shows working capital benefit of $143 million in 2015.
How would you expect working capital contribution to be in 2016? We would expect that we would continue to pull cash out of working capital that it will be a positive.
Some of that really has to do with where your energy prices are going to end up in the year.
But we think it will contribute to free cash flow in 2016.
Inc.</span></strong> If I may follow up on that if you are not able to repeat this $143 million of benefit in 2016 are there any other line items on a free cash flow statement that could benefit you year-over-year aside from the ones that you already highlighted on the slide? Well of course EBITDA.
But we've guided to a flat EBITDA.
We think that again this $350 million improvement is significant relative to our equity capitalization.
Taxes are always a little uncertain.
But we think that taxes we've guided historically at our long-term cash rate at between 20% and 25%.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much.
But again even if primary working capital were flat there's another $350 million of free cash flow.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you Kimo.
Your next question comes from Frank Mitsch with Wells Fargo Securities.
Please proceed.
Good morning gentlemen.
And Kimo I think you're being a little bit modest when you say taxes are a little uncertain.
You always seem to find a way to work that lever to your credit to your credit.
We make sure that our tax folks are compensated by – we look at that as a profit center Frank.
It works out great.
Terrific.
Hey Peter I really appreciate a lot of the color on the guidance.
Three of the segments should be up in EBITDA Performance Plastics Slag (32:00) and obviously TiO2 is going to be off from the $61 million this year but still positive.
Kimo just said that Rockwood should contribute $115 million.
I believe you said you're going to get about $100 million of savings from your initiatives particularly in Europe.
So that implies that the base TiO2 business absent the kind of unique opportunities that you have to create value would be down about $150 million or so negative EBITDA.
A) I'm wondering if my math is kind of right? And B) if that's the case are you hearing any chatter – because other folks obviously have to be in a similar situation.
Are you hearing any chatter about potential plant shutdowns or other movement by the other TiO2 producers to try and rectify the situation? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well first of all Frank I wouldn't say that your numbers are too wildly different than what I would put on the back of an envelope if you will.
I think I've correctly called the bottom of the cycle six out of the last six quarters.
And if there is one of our divisions as we look at our budgeting process that has some upside to it it probably would be TiO2.
But I just – I look at the discipline in pricing and it's tough to be optimistic.
On the other hand I look at the pricing margins and so forth and these are just simply at an unsustainable rate because nobody's making anything.
So when we look at capacities and capacities in the industry I can only speculate on the competition.
And I would loathe to do that because I have absolutely no idea where they're going.
And so as I look at our own capacity we continue to review our capacity and the market needs and so forth.
And is it possible that we would be taking more capacity out sometime in the future? I certainly wouldn't rule that out.
As far as the competition you'll probably just have to ask them on their earnings call.
All right.
That's helpful.
And then Peter you did say that you remain committed to doing something strategic with the TiO2 business recognizing the economic impairment.
You said as soon as market conditions permit.
What percent chance would you handicap that being a 2016 event? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I think that certainly by the end of 2016 when I talk about market conditions permitting if I look at the Pigments business we are preparing and we are moving towards a spin of TiO2.
That is our priority.
That is our focus right now.
And as we look at that spin I think that you have to have a division that doesn't just hit positive cash flow for one week or a month.
I think you've kind of got to see that you're there so that you're not trying to spin off to shareholders something that is going to hurt their value.
And so as we look at that spin I certainly would think that by the end of this year given where I'd hoped that prices would be and what have you and completing our price or our cost initiatives that we should be very close to being able to spin that at the end of the year.
The strategic options that I'm speaking about obviously we are working on those aggressively as well.
And should something occur before then we obviously wouldn't have to wait until the end of the year.
That could happen at any time when you're looking at a potential merger of sorts or whatever would take place that would create shareholder value.
All right.
Terrific.
Thank you so much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks.
Thanks Frank.
Your next question comes from Edlain Rodriguez with UBS.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
Thank you guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Rod.
Peter just a quick question for you Peter longer-term.
Back in the days you had like a $2 billion EBITDA target for a portfolio.
Now you're in a different raw material environment and the global macro issues that we are facing now.
Like what do you believe is the earnings power of the portfolio in this environment? I guess you can exclude TiO2 if you want.
But...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well it probably if we were to go back and look at those original – that original $2 billion and where would we be off the lion's share of that is around TiO2.
As I probably have said we're going to be taking our TiO2 business and we're going to be separating that business.
So that would be the single largest piece of that.
The second biggest piece of that would be the fall-off in crude prices that obviously has impacted the margin of our upstream olefins MTBE.
These are still good businesses.
I'm just saying that we've enjoyed the last couple of year historically high margins in these businesses for some period of time.
I think longer-term these businesses are going to recover.
I don't think crude prices are going to be at $30 a couple of years from now.
So I think that there's a chunk of margin there.
And then you've heard us this last couple of calls talk about our FX impact.
That's certainly $150 million when you look at 2015.
So between FX between Pigments and the fall off in crude prices but I think fundamentally as I said earlier if you exclude the Pigments business if you exclude TiO2 specifically TiO2 from the rest of this business we would have just completed one of the strongest years on a margin basis that we've had in our history.
And we'd be going into a year of 2016 projected to generate record amounts of cash and a record EBITDA to sales.
So as I look at that I'm not sure that the $2 billion if I take out the Pigments side to that I think longer-term it's still a realistic and a viable target to shoot for.
But I think again in this lower crude environment cash generation and margin expansion are going to be the things that I think will create shareholder value going forward.
Edlain you'll remember of the $2 billion there was roughly $425 million of Pigments EBITDA in there.
So if you exclude that and you use the FX headwind that Peter mentioned of about $140 million that's a number I think that this company can hit in the next couple of years.
I mean is $1.5 billion a number that we are capable of? Yeah.
I think that's realistic.
$1.4 billion $1.5 billion.
Okay.
That makes sense.
And one last one on the sale repurchase.
You've done some so far.
What's the appetite to do the remaining 50 mill sooner rather than later? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I think that that's something that we work very closely with our board of directors making sure that we have their support.
But I think that as we look at as Kimo was talking about today we look at a company that this year will be generating record amounts of cash in spite of the sluggish economic environment.
We think that there's real upside in the company.
We're not sitting around just waiting for the economy to turn.
The business ex-TiO2 is trading at about five times EBITDA.
And I think that continuing to buy back shares in this area in pricing is still a very good value to shareholders.
I would agree with that.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you Edlain.
Your next question comes from P.J.
Juvekar with Citi.
Please proceed.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning Peter.
This is Eric Petrie in for P.J.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey Eric.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Just on TiO2 – on TiO2 could you update us on your inventory levels? And then are you seeing any impact from the new Henan Billions chloride plant in China? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well first of all I'm not seeing any impact from the Henan plant in China.
And I really don't have any idea as to what they'd be doing right now.
But if it were virtually anybody starting up a grassroots chloride plant with the technology being utilized for the very first time in the very best of conditions this is going to be a challenging start-up.
But I have seen zero impact and zero pounds coming to the industry that's affected our business.
Not saying they're not there just as far as it's affected our business.
As we look at our days inventory of TiO2 that days is right at around we finished the year right around 60 days of inventory.
You asked about chloride.
Today in the current market environment we're in we would think that chloride on a same price basis is probably the lowest margin technology out there.
So even if Henan could start that up it doesn't suggest that they would have any sort of cost advantage globally.
We would think that those margins are next to breakeven.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Helpful.
And then I notice that in your slides you called for an inflection point in TiO2 prices.
Are you willing to do the same or call a bottom in MDI prices in China? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No I'll always call the bottom in prices anywhere.
But I'm not sure that's going to actually happen.
I think again as we look at prices overall I don't want to discount anything that we've said.
But it's really tough when you've got as we follow MDI prices there literally are hundreds of different price points on that spectrum going from the most downstream derivatized specialized applications of MDI going all the way to the most crude components of MDI.
And that will vary region by region.
But as we look at component crude MDI prices today well I'm not sure about prices.
Really the margins today margins are actually better than they were a couple of months ago.
So as we look at pricing pricing is actually better today than it was two or three months ago.
So I certainly wouldn't say that these are as low as it's going to go.
As a matter of fact they've been improving the last couple of months.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Then lastly in your Performance Products guidance similar EBITDA to 2015.
What kind of ethylene margin contribution are you assuming? Is it similar to today's run rate? Or do you see upside to that guidance if ethylene margins improve? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think ethylene margins probably throughout the year will continue to have downward pressure.
I think again we transfer our ethylene at a market price and with the new capacity coming on around the world particularly in North America it's probably going to continue to be downward pressure on pricing.
And I think it is worth just noting in this division this is the first time in a couple of years that we've noted a flat EBITDA one year to the next.
But given the fact that five or six years ago the vast majority of earnings in this division came from the upstream more commoditized ethylene surfactants ethylene oxide ethylene glycols and so forth and amines was something that was rather the tail on the dog in this division.
Last couple of years when you look at the pricing of ethylene has been cut more than 50% in the last year.
The margins have been cut probably even more so than that this last year on ethylene.
The division itself can remain as strong as it is.
I think it's a real credit to the strength of our maleic our amines and our more specialty surfactants businesses.
And those businesses over the last couple of years and in the next couple of years to come will continue to improve and will continue to expand.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Great.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from Hassan Ahmed with Alembic Global.
Please proceed.
Good morning Peter.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Hassan? How are you? Very well.
Thank you.
You talked about beyond just a spinoff of the TiO2 business considering strategic alternatives.
As I look at the industry most companies if not all have pretty stretched balance sheets within the TiO2 world.
So I'm just trying to understand broadly speaking what form this strategic alternative would take? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well Hassan it's an excellent question.
It's one I'd love to delve into.
But given the discussions that are ongoing and the secrecy agreements and so forth that we have planned I'd rather not speculate on any one thing that we're doing for obvious reasons.
But you've hit the nail on the head and that certainly is one of the real challenges that the industry has to deal with right now.
And we are in something of a unique position is that we can choose to do something with very little leverage or more leverage or whatever.
And so it's -- but no.
In order to get something strategic with somebody else obviously you've got to have a quid pro quo and you've got to have two parties willing to do something that's mutually beneficial.
So...
And I think the observation is very good.
We think there's $10 a share on a Huntsman equivalent of upside.
That's just simply what $400 million of EBITDA with a five times multiple of upside for Huntsman.
And we don't want to put our business into a super-leveraged balance sheet that's not sustainable or has some risk of not allowing our shareholder to participate in a more normalized market.
Set aside a peak environment just a normalized environment there is $10 a share for us.
And so a spin works but if it is a strategic combination it has to be with the partner that has a balance sheet that's sustainable and viable.
Very helpful.
And just as a follow up sticking to the whole TiO2 side of things over the last couple of quarters we saw some divergent trends as far as utilization rates went.
What I mean by that is that you had some companies that on the back of call it weak market conditions and the like scaled back their operating rates while others continue to run at elevated operating rates.
So how is the environment looking today? Is the industry in your mind a bit more disciplined than the last couple of quarters? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think anytime you have margins where they are operating rates where they are and direction where they are you've got to question the sanity and the common sense of an industry.
But I probably shouldn't say anymore because I'll just get in trouble.
Fair enough.
Fair enough.
Thank you Peter.
Your next question comes from Laurence Alexander with Jefferies.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
So three quick ones.
What's your sense at the current exchange rates for your FX headwind year-over-year? And then just to come back to your comment about the free cash flow I think when you were answering one of the questions you made a summary comment of well regardless of the working capital there'd be $350 million.
Just to be clear that's $350 million plus the starting off of from the negative free cash flow for this year and then whatever the year-over-year change is in the working capital build? Or were you trying to say that there's extra cost cutting you can pull to offset if the working capital relief is less than the $140 million you booked in 2015? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah I'll take the free cash flow and you can do the foreign currency because that's kind of your area.
On the free cash flow I think that we're looking at the free cash flow as the CapEx number and the restructure.
I think what I was trying to say in my comments were that we've got a $300 million and then we've got a $50 million on maintenance between those things.
And that's really starting with the free cash flow coming from 2015 largely being flat or down $29 million as it said in our slide.
So that's what we're expecting.
And the working capital is not factored into that $350 million improved number.
So not saying that we've got an extra pocket for or against the working capital.
Again as we see the trend in raw material prices going where they are I'm hoping that we will get some further relief in that area.
What we think...
So on a net-net just to be clear so...
Let me see if I can help.
We think working capital benefit will be similar in 2016 as it was in 2015.
And so that gets you I think part of the way there.
Got it.
On FX if you stay at current exchange rates – as you remember we saw the strength in the dollar about this time last year.
So we would have a $17 million $20 million headwind in the first quarter of 2016 and then it would be probably flat through the rest of the year so without headwind on a year-over-year comparison.
And then just lastly on end market demand have you seen any regional end markets noticeably decelerate outside normal seasonality? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I haven't seen anything that would be material or alarming in the business up or down.
Okay.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> As a matter of fact I think if we go back a year ago we were seeing a deceleration in the first couple of quarters last year particularly in China that I'm not really seeing.
I'm not seeing a lot of growth in China but I'm not seeing the deceleration that we saw last year.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from John Roberts with UBS.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Can you hear me? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
Thank you.
Yeah I'm not sure there's been enough questions on TiO2 yet so let me just fire up another one here.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks John.
Should we assume that your U.S.
JV operates at pretty high rates irrespective of market conditions? And if you do find some sort of consolidation transaction if you end up with a minority position would that interest be transferable? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think the Lake Charles joint venture with Kronos operates at industry utilization rates that you'd find in the United States.
I don't think it's any different than what you'd find in the industry in the U.S.
And to the extent it's transferable I think it's probably more detail than we want to give on this call.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Roger Spitz with Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed.
Thank you very much and good morning.
You gave a little bit of a hint on this but can you say what your Q4 2015 EBITDA for TiO2 pigment EBITDA standalone including both legacy Huntsman and Rockwood TiO2 excluding Rockwood's non-TiO2? Yeah.
I mean what I was pointing out in my comments was that our legacy business for the year did roughly negative $50 million of EBITDA and that's all TiO2.
I mentioned $115 million of EBITDA on the Rockwood businesses.
The Rockwood TiO2 business I don't have that right in front of us but it's...
I can get there from there.
Let's see – excuse me.
Fourth quarter it was probably negative $10 million for the quarter.
Perfect.
Thank you.
Excuse me.
Just to clarify Roger it's negative $10 million for the total TiO2 segment within Pigments and Additives for the fourth quarter.
That includes Rockwood and Huntsman legacy.
Okay.
So basically flat from Q3.
Got it.
Yeah it's benefiting from some restructuring in the process.
So yeah.
Okay.
Thank you for that.
In epoxy was the competitive pressure in the commodity and perhaps in the solid epoxy resin and as a net buyer of LER can you give any insight into LER pricing from Q4 versus Q3 as well as any insights into FB and BPA pricing trends? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I – we've – for the most part we've gotten out of that BLR end of our business and to be honest with you Roger I just don't track that like we used to.
All right.
Thank you very much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from Brian Lalli with Barclays.
Please proceed.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning guys.
How are you? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks for fitting me in.
I'll just ask on the free cash flow side maybe for Kimo.
You've outlined at times leveraged targets and obviously at 3.7x as you've shown on your slides you're a bit above that.
Would your intention be with free cash flow to focus on debt repayment throughout the year? I guess thinking about capital allocation and where you expect that free cash flow to go? Yes.
I mean I think we have $50 million left on a share repurchase plan.
We may use $50 million of that free cash flow to bring in those shares but the rest would go to debt repayment.
Inc.</span></strong> And the idea still is that I think it was 2.5 times target.
Is that how you think about things regardless of what happens strategically on the TiO2 side? Yeah.
Absolutely.
And we would like the TiO2 transaction to be a leverage-neutral transaction given where TiO2 is.
It's unlikely that that entity whether it be a spin or combination is going to be – have much leverage on it at least from Huntsman side.
And so I would probably lose a break even EBITDA business in TiO2 but not reduce our gross debt by any.
Inc.</span></strong> Understood.
And then one last one for me just again on the TiO2 space.
But maybe Peter would you mind talking about how to think about potential for additional closures in Europe and just how you weigh the cost of that which appreciably are higher because of social issues et cetera versus the negative EBITDA contribution that you're discussing from those legacy assets? And just again how to think about how you might make that decision on a go-forward basis if things remain weak? Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I hate to sound like I'm trying to evade an answer but I think given the time that under the laws of the countries where we have operations and so forth the notifications that are given to workers and what have you I probably be best to try to steer clear of the process and the procedure.
I will just say that as we continue to want to be most proficient in matching our capacity with sales and market demands and I think we've demonstrated in the past that our ability and willingness to close TiO2 capacity if we've got too much of it.
And we'll continue to review that on a regular basis going forward.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks for the time guys.
I appreciate it.
Investor Relations</span></strong> Latoya this is Kurt.
Given the time I think we have room for one more question.
Your final question comes from Bob Omensa with JPMC Asset Management (58:10).
Please proceed.
Hi.
Thanks guys for squeezing me in here.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
Quick clarifications on cash flow.
The first thing on flat EBITDA it sounds like you're saying flat excluding that $95 million outage.
So flat with the $1.2 billion versus say the $1.3 billion that if you added that $95 million back? Well so we did $1 221 million of EBITDA.
We think 2016 will be similar to that number.
Obviously we lost $95 million last year.
And we're not going to on a net basis pick up that $95 million.
We will get some but we will lose some somewhere else.
So it will be on a total consolidated basis similar.
Okay.
And then on the share repurchase program that you already did the $100 million I was a little unclear.
You did it in January but the cash balance at December do I need to subtract $100 million? Or was that already funded? That was already funded.
That was funded.
Okay.
And then just lastly on TiO2 just CapEx.
I felt like you had said sometime in the past you showed a breakdown by segment of CapEx.
Is that segment about $100 million? Like if you got rid of that on day one of a certain year would we take $450 million down to $350 million in CapEx? Or what would we do? Think of it as roughly $80 million normalized capital.
It's been higher in the last couple of years because of restructuring and SAP implementation and so forth with Rockwood.
So more like $375 million then or so.
Okay.
All right that's all I had.
Thanks guys.
And that concludes...
Investor Relations</strong> Latoya this is Kurt.
That concludes our call today.
We want to thank everybody for joining us.
And as Peter mentioned we'll be hosting an Investor Day here on March 2.
So if you're interested in participating in that please reach out to the IR team.
And certainly if you have additional questions reach out to us.
We're happy to engage.
Thanks again for your time.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation.
This concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.