Good morning and welcome to the Intrepid Potash First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind everyone that this conference is being recorded today Thursday May 5 2011 at 8:00 am Mountain Time.
It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to William Kent Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Kent please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thank you all for joining us for our first quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
I'd like to start by introducing today's participants from the company.
We have on the call with us today Bob Jornayvaz Executive Chairman of the Board; Hugh Harvey Executive Vice Chairman of the Board; David Honeyfield President and Chief Financial Officer; Martin Litt Executive Vice President and General Counsel; R.L.
Moore Senior Vice President of Marketing and Sales; John Mansanti Vice President of Operations; and Kelvin Feist Vice President of Marketing and Sales.
I would also like to remind everyone that statements made on this call which express a belief expectation or intention as well as those that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the United States securities laws.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance.
A number of assumptions which we believe are reasonable were made in connection with the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements.
The forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ from our expectations.
For more information with respect to the risks uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our forward-looking statements we direct you to our news release issued last night and risk factors and management's discussion and analysis of financial conditions and results of operation in our most recent annual report on Form 10-k and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q as filed with the SEC.
All forward-looking-statements are qualified in their entirety by such factors.
Our earnings news release which is posted on our website at intrepidpotash.com includes a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures including adjusted EBITDA which will be used on this call.
All references to tons are the short tons of 2 000 pounds.
I'll now turn the call over to Bob Jornayvaz.
Thanks Will and thanks to everyone for joining us today to learn more about Intrepid's fourth quarter 2011 results.
During the first quarter of 2011 we delivered solid results in the production sales and capital investment fronts.
As spring planting got under way we leveraged our strategic location advantage to maximize margin and deliver the best average net realized sales price when compared to our North American peers.
During the quarter we earned $0.38 per diluted share on a net income of $28.3 million.
Our adjusted EBITDA was $55.8 million and we maintained our cash and investment positions from the end of the year at $143 million as of March 31st.
Demand in the potash market in the United States during the first quarter was reminiscent of demand prior to the 2008 financial crisis.
We saw dealer and distributor buying patterns that were much more consistent with normal spring purchasing levels.
We believe there were important macro factors that positively influenced spring demand including tightening crop inventories that contributed to the continued strength in agricultural commodity prices across a wide variety of crops.
The strong commodity price environment provides a positive outlook for farmer income in the United States.
We believe the profit opportunities for farmers will drive them to maximize yield through balanced fertilization as yield levels ultimately drive overall profitability.
While commodity prices remain strong we cannot ignore that weather conditions are clearly having an impact on the timing of fertilizer applications in many regions of the country.
The continued rain and wet weather and the resulting flooding have delayed fieldwork in many areas.
Given the wet weather pattern that has been in place over the last few weeks in the Midwest farmers in these areas may not be able to get into their fields for weeks to come.
On the other extreme Texas is in the midst of one of the worst droughts in many decades.
Fortunately our Pacific Northwest market is seeing a more normal weather pattern with strong demand.
We are monitoring these situations closely and we'll continue to evaluate markets to strategically place product to maximize for sales opportunities.
The locations of our facilities give Intrepid a strategic advantage that allow us the flexibility to supply numerous fertilizer markets in different geographies as demonstrated by the quality of our first quarter results.
The Moab compactor that we recently installed is running better than we'd expected in terms of rate volume and product quality.
This has allowed us to expand into additional granular markets from our Moab operations reducing our dependence on any singular end market.
We are focused on enhancing our marketing flexibility and increasing our margin opportunity as evidenced by the numerous granulation projects that we have undertaken.
Clearly the Moab Compaction Project has been successful and is being followed by several other granulation projects.
The granulation program includes the expansion of compaction capacity in Wendover the addition of a pelletization plant in Carlsbad that will allow us the ability to produce all of our Trio productions in granular size and the expanded granular capacity we're planning to add at our North facility to accommodate our anticipated production from the HB Solar Solution Mine.
From the beginning we have communicated to our stakeholders that we would take a "build as you go" approach to improve and grow our operations.
If you look at the significant projects we have already brought online and are in the midst of constructing or planning it is clear that we are executing on this commitment.
A great example of this operational progress is evident at our West mine with the installation and commissioning of the stacker/reclaim project last year.
We have increased operational stability at West and achieved repeated record hoisting rates.
When you look at the significant capital investment that we have recently made it should be noted that the production rates at our facilities remained within normal historical ranges which demonstrates our ability to improve operations without sacrificing production.
The fact is that we still have significantly more impact-type capital investment projects to accomplish that will improve and grow our operations.
Our current and future projects show a clear path to increased recoveries and increased production at a lower per-ton cost and leverage of our previous investments.
A significant milestone that I want to highlight before passing the call over to John Mansanti is the publication of the draft Environmental Impact Statement related to our proposed HB Solar Solution Mine.
The Bureau of Land Management published the draft EIS in the Federal Register on April 15 2011 which initiated the 60-day public comment period for this important growth project.
I am pleased that we're continuing to move forward and the current schedule for receiving the Record of Decision on the project remains in the first quarter of 2012.
The HB Solar Solution Mine is a project that is designed to bring between 150 000 and 200 000 tons of new potash production online for Intrepid to lower overall cost for Intrepid and to allow us to better serve our customers.
Solution mining when coupled with solar evaporation is one of the lowest-cost methods to produce potash and our location in Southeast New Mexico is optimal for this opportunity.
John Mansanti our Vice President of Operation will take the call from here.
Thanks Bob.
We produced 234 000 tons of potash during the first quarter of 2011 which included our usual seasonal increase in production from our Moab Utah operations solid potash production from our Wendover Utah operations and especially solid potash production from our Carlsbad operations.
The improved Carlsbad results are due to the effective capital investments we have made and increased staffing that occurred over the last 12 to 18 months as we ramped up mine production following the staffing reductions we made in response to the 2009 market.
Each mine in Carlsbad is realizing the benefit of one additional mine panel which were commissioned in 2010 and we're preparing to add one additional mining panel again to the East and West mines this year.
First quarter 2011 production compares to 172 000 tons of potash produced in the first quarter 2010 a 36% increase over last year.
We also produced 31 000 tons of Trio during the first quarter of 2011.
This compares to 57 000 tons produced in the first quarter of last year.
During the first part of this quarter we continued to experience lower-than-planned recoveries of Trio.
As we touched on during the last earnings call we organized a team of engineering production and maintenance personnel to review the original design and process drawings consulted equipment manufacturers and to analyze plant data to increase recoveries.
We turned the process upside down and made plant modifications.
As a result we are seeing sustained improvements in recoveries beginning in March.
We will continue to make adjustments to improve recoveries ahead of the completion of the Langbeinite Recovery Improvement Project.
In 2011 we expect to invest between $140 million and $165 million towards our capital investment projects which are key components in the Intrepid growth story.
A highlight of our capital investments are paying off and can be seen in our Moab operations where the recent increase in our production of granular-sized product reported by the new compactor together with the recent increase in loading capacity has allowed us to expand in a new agricultural markets and has allowed us to complete our first ever train shipment from Moab.
With respect to this year's capital projects we continue to look for opportunities to advance our permits and to expedite labor and equipment in efforts to accelerate completion of projects.
In March we began construction of the dense media separation plant with our Langbeinite Recovery Improvement Project.
And the permit application for the granulation plant associated with this project has been declared administratively complete by the New Mexico Environment Department.
We are prepared to begin construction on the granulation plant immediately upon receipt of this permit.
In addition we completed and commissioned our product storage warehouse at the East facility in February.
And we continue the installation of the distributed control systems at our West underground and the Eastern facilities.
We expect to have each of these significant capital projects online in the next few months.
In Utah we completed the engineering for a new compaction facility at Wendover and are finalizing the permit applications.
Also at Wendover we completed engineering for additional warehouse capacity and started construction.
Finally in Moab we initiated the engineering and design work on additional drilling to increase the horizontal solution mining caverns.
The additional caverns will provide access to additional potash ore and increase production.
I'll turn the call over to Kelvin Feist our Vice President of Marketing and Sales.
Thank you John.
The first quarter was on all accounts solid from a sales standpoint.
Strong commodity prices persisted throughout the quarter that were backstopped by tight corn and soybean inventories and a positive USDA planting report.
As a follow-up on the strong fall application season we were able to ship our fall backlog of rail orders in January.
Our truck market in the quarter saw healthy demand that allowed us to increase our average net realized sales price for potash over last quarter.
We sold 196 000 tons of potash during the first quarter of 2011.
This compares to 243 000 tons sold in the first quarter of 2010.
We also sold 52 000 tons of Trio compared to 70 000 tons of Trio sold in the first quarter of 2010.
The posted price for our red granular potash was $485 per ton during the first quarter and we raised this posted price to $500 per ton effective April 1.
Subsequent price increases of $15 per ton in May and June will put our posted price for red granular potash at $530 per ton effective June 1st.
Given the strength of the agriculture commodity markets and the financial health of the farmer we believe that farmers will make every effort this growing season to maximize their yield through balanced fertilization.
Demand for granular Trio remains strong and continues to exceed our forecasted production levels requiring us to allocate granular product to our customers.
Because of the strong demand and strong agricultural commodity market we raised the posted price for our granular Trio by $15 per ton to $271 per ton FOB Carlsbad on April 1st.
We have seen solid spring demand in markets where farmers have been able to get into their fields.
As example our sales in the Pacific Northwest which is a key market for Intrepid have been strong in part due to good planting position.
In contrast planting has been delayed in many parts of the Midwest due to cold wet weather conditions and in Texas due to severe drought.
Based on data from the USDA a number of these areas are behind in planting when compared to historical trends.
At this time we do not believe that this delay in planting will have a material impact on our 2011 sales volume.
Rather these weather-related challenges may have an impact on timing and location of our sales.
We believe the majority of our dealers and distributors have built up sufficient product inventory to handle a portion of the spring demand.
However in certain regions that we serve we expect additional demand for potash to finish out the spring season.
Further we believe that some dealers will choose to exit the spring season with potash in their warehouse.
This type of commitment from dealers is a departure from a much more conservative consumption behavior observed in 2010.
What is occurring this spring in terms of weather is really not new but just represents the typical challenges that the agricultural and fertilizer industry has faced from time to time.
What is different in 2011 however is the strength of the commodity pricing which should encourage farmers to maximize planted acres and application rates as soon as the weather window allows.
Dave Honeyfield will take the call from here and wrap up our prepared comments.
Thanks Kelvin.
Our first quarter results really highlight how the investments we've made in the business over the last few years are beginning to pay off.
We're seeing evidence of this through higher sustained production rates and better-than-expected returns on our de-bottlenecking and productivity enhancement projects.
First-quarter potash production was very good at all our facilities and our cash operating cost to goods sold saw the benefit of these production results.
Operating our assets to maximize production allows us to realize cost benefits throughout the system and has us on track to deliver a cash cost of goods sold for potash this year in the range of $170 to $180 per ton.
We should be able to achieve this range even with the variability in cost that we see from quarter to quarter as we execute and manage planned maintenance programs and scheduled down days to tie in new plant and equipment.
Before going too much further there are a couple of items that appeared to need some clarification related to our results.
The first has to do with our Langbeinite Production and Trio cost of sales.
Under our current production design which should be thought of as our pilot project that got us into the Langbeinite market the Trio we produced results in a stream of production that is approximately a 50-50 mix of natural granular and standard product.
We used a screening process to separate our granular and standard production.
We do not have any ability with our current plant to compact or granulate product but rather we rely on the natural size distribution to separate the products.
As a result the granular and standard products carry the same per-ton cost.
As we mentioned before our low overall production results for Trio in the latter part of 2010 and through the beginning of the first quarter meant that we had higher per-unit cost for all the Trio that was produced.
The lower recovery rate meant that we simply had less granular production than expected available for sale.
We continue to sell every ton of granular product into the strong demand market for Trio and as a result we continue to be sold out of granular products.
At the same time we continue to sell the standard-sized product we produce with a fairly significant amount of the total sales going into the export market as well as new offshore markets that we are building not buying.
This is a distinction that we are proud of.
Because of the need to match competitive pricing the standard export market historically has resulted in a lower per-ton sales price.
So when you step back what really becomes clear in what the Langbeinite Recovery Improvement Project delivers to Intrepid is more overall production following the commissioning of the higher-recovery dense media separation plant where we will still produce nearly half of the total product stream in the natural granular form.
But with the commissioning of the granulation plant that is part of the LRIP we will have the new capability to granulate all of our standard production and have it available for sale into the higher value granular market.
Another item that warrants pointing out is the fact that our depreciation in total dollars and on a per-ton basis does increase for both potash and Trio over the next few years as we place new equipment into service in order to realize the returns on our capital investments.
The significant capital investments coupled with a very low initial cost basis to the assets results in the fact that DD&amp;A will grow accordingly.
You should expect DD&amp;A per ton to grow in proportion to our cumulative invested capital as we move forward.
Similarly for Trio you should expect DD&amp;A to be higher once the LRIP project is completed and we see the benefits flow through to our cash cost of goods sold per ton with higher recoveries and the availability to have all of our Trio sales going into the higher-value granular market.
As we mentioned earlier the strength of the current commodities market and the resulting profitability to farmers coupled with the recognized value of potassium allows us to successfully raise the price of potash and Trio.
Historically we've seen that our reported average net realized sales price per ton for potash has been about 85% to 90% of our posted granular sales price because of the different markets in which we sell our products; competitive customer discounts and the mix between standard and granular sales.
In conclusion the first quarter of 2011 was solid overall.
As an organization we remain focused on achieving our core goals of increased recoveries increased reliabilities increase productivities and reduced per-ton cost.
Our first quarter results reflected the benefits of our successfully executed capital investment projects which when coupled with our prudent operating philosophy increases production and decreases costs.
We've demonstrated that we can execute on complex capital investment projects while at the same time running our operations and delivering margin to our stockholders.
We believe that we're well positioned in the market to maximize the advantages that our locations and investments afford us so that our stockholders can enjoy the benefits of the robust agricultural market.
We will continue to execute on the operating and sales strategies and the capital investment projects that we've identified to drive long term value to our stockholders.
We'll now open the line for any questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question today comes from Edlain Rodriguez of Gleacher &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Just quick question on potash.
Is the weather and delays in planting become an issue for the spring? Can you give us a sense of how much volume could be at risk? Because the reason I'm asking because typically you do take advantage of spot sales.
So but if you do have a delay then the spot sales might not be there anymore.
I just want to get a sense of how much of your sales tend to be spot versus contract.
We really don't have a percentage.
I think what we're going to see is as we get some improved weather in the state of Texas which hopefully will happen in the next few weeks there's still a tremendous amount of planting that is yet to occur.
And the Texas season hasn't gone too far to where we're not going to still see a great amount of activity there.
In the Midwest you're right the flooding has caused delays not only of potash getting in but of farmers either having to delay plantings or potentially replant.
So I think it's too early right now to tell what kind of damage that would cause or might cause I'll let Kelvin address that a little bit.
But percentage-wise I do think it's too early to give you a feel for what that might -- what impact that might have.
Edlain it's Calvin here.
It's really a regional question.
There's going to be areas that are going to get started in a week and there's going to be areas that are not going to be able to seed for a number of weeks.
So it's really watching the weather and I guess seeing what will happen in terms of our weather forecast.
And if they're able to get some sunshine and some wind they're likely to be able to get into the field sooner and much less impact.
But I guess we really don't have a percentage impact or how this might play out in the next couple of weeks.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Just a little too early to tell.
Another quick question on langbeinite just simple question.
I mean looking into Q2 and Q3 should we expect production cost to remain at the same high levels they were in Q1? And also will prices be closer to the posted prices? Or are we going to see the same big delta we saw in Q1? Edlain this is Dave.
And John if you need to supplement please do.
Overall as John touched on we've really started to see a very nice improvement in our langbeinite production starting in March after all the work that John described.
And you'll probably remember us commenting on that back at the last analyst call as well that that was something we'd identified and we were putting a team on it.
So that being said we will have more product available.
That means we'll probably be able to spread some cost out a little different.
We'll also have the price increase that Kelvin had mentioned earlier that we've been able to get into the market on our granular product.
So overall we'll continue to see more product available for sale which means that overall we'll see -- we should see an improvement on the margin side there.
One thing Edlain that I want to talk about with potash pricing that you've got to remember is that some of the export sales that we are choosing to tag are in the markets that we are building these are new markets.
And so we're selling product not on the markets that we're buying but ones that we're building.
And as we build out our langbeinite production and especially our granular capacity our ability to go back into those markets with premium granular product and achieve higher prices is something that we're very confident in our ability to achieve.
But when you're building markets not buying markets it takes a little bit of time.
And we would just ask you to continue to look towards the future as it relates to langbeinite.
The next question comes from Mark Connelly of the CLSA.
Just 2 questions.
John the design changes and the refinements you're making on the Langbeinite Recovery.
Is that going to change materially the capacity that you're targeting to get? The changes we're making relative to where we're at first quarter yes.
Okay? Relative to where we've been historically no.
It allows us to get back to some of those historical recovery rates.
We're hoping we can do a little bit better than that.
And again we're trying to bridge that.
We'll be commissioning the LRIP plant later in the year which just due to the nature of the dense media plant will increase that recovery overall.
Mark this is Dave.
One thing just to make sure that -- and I think we've talked about this maybe broadly before but just to make sure people are aware our current process design has us targeting about a 30% to 35% recovery of product.
And the dense media plant that will be commissioned with the LRIP project takes us to 50% recovery.
And then the other piece of that project is the granulation or pelletizer plant which allows us to granulate 100% of that standard production.
So really what we go to is having higher recovery and the ability to have all of that product in a granular form with the LRIP.
As John mentioned the changes and improvements really are relative to what we've seen over the last -- really the end of last quarter and the first month or 2 of this quarter.
And Mark this is Bob.
Not to make it sound too complicated but let's not forget that we're mining a mixed ore body that has both langbeinite and sylvite in the ore.
And so as we make tweaks and improvements to the potash side of the recovery from the mixed ore body it has an impact on the langbeinite side.
And so as we work to get these plants running as efficiently as we can to optimize recoveries on both side of the production stream it's a little more complicated sometimes.
And so the addition of the dense media separation plant as well as some of the recovery changes are going to continually just improve and improve upon this mixed ore body recovery system.
Just back to the weather impact.
And I'm sorry to keep asking on this but if the timing and location of sales changed materially in the quarter could we anticipate a meaningful change in the costs all-in costs? Or are transportation not going to be affected all that much even if you're shifting around quite a bit? Mark this is Dave.
I think you probably heard us say it before but really we focus on things on kind of a long term and annual basis.
And we're going to continue to run the plants in as full a manner as we can.
We have lots of storage capacity.
So if we have some short periods of maybe this month's lower than what next month will be or you might see some variation from quarter to quarter but I don't really anticipate that we'll be outside of that 170 to 180 number on the cash cost side of things for the year.
We'll see some aberrations I think we've got scheduled maintenance coming up at one of our facilities in the second quarter and one in the third quarter and that will also include tying in some plant and equipment.
So we'll have a little variation.
But overall we think we've got plenty of capacity and we really think about this on an annual basis and believe we'll be able to sell all the granular production that we're able to produce from the plants.
That next question comes from Lindsay Drucker Mann of Goldman Sachs.
First on your expectations for production in the event that because of weather-related issues you do get some softness in demand in the first part of the year would you expect to run your facilities full out and build some inventory for fall? That's the expectation Lindsay.
I think like we've touched on we see the benefit on the unit cost when  we're able to do that.
We got staff back up at the mines and the plants really in November last year.
So our expectation is that we will produce those plants at maximum rates and make sure that we've got product available for what we really see to be a pretty darn strong commodity environment and ag [agricultural] market for a period of time here.
On an earlier earnings report you had talked about some pressure on standard potash prices because of some excess selling from your Canadian competitors.
I was just hoping you could give us an update anecdotally on what you're seeing from them today.
The first thing that we've done has made a big difference is the addition of granulation capacity so that we can take product that was standard product that might have needed to go into an industrial market and it can now go into an agricultural market so the ability to right-size our product stream so that we can most effectively do what we need to do.
When we look at the oil and gas market down in the state of Texas and Oklahoma and the activity that we're seeing we're seeing our industrial sales pick up.
With the increase in the price of oil and natural gas we're seeing firming in the pricing of our industrial products.
And we continue to work with oil and gas operators to explain the benefits of KCl in drilling fluids and completion fluids.
So Intrepid is working its tail off to make sure the oil and gas operators are intimately aware as well as the Halliburtons of the world who recommend our product can convey that message to their oil and gas operators.
So we're seeing activity in those markets pick up and firming in those markets pick up.
Maybe let me just ask that at a different way.
That's helpful but in light of some of the softer sales we're seeing at retail and perhaps some inventory building in anticipation of when the growing season kicks into gear with these weather delays are you seeing any of your large competitors getting more aggressive to move product? Fortunately what we're seeing is the Indian market and the Chinese market and Asian markets that are big standard markets have picked up.
We're seeing more standard more Canadian standard go offshore.
And so we're not seeing the kind of pressure that we had seen before because those standard outlets have reopened if you will.
And it's our impression that the Canadians are shipping significantly more standard into the Asian markets and the Indian market.
The next question comes from Elaine Yip of Credit Suisse.
A question on your announced price increases.
In contrast to the other North American producers you've chosen to raise prices in $15 increments.
What drove that type of pricing approach and what has been the customers' response to the price increases? The first was that -- we've learned back in 2000 and 2008 that price shocks aren't necessarily beneficial to our customers.
So we wanted to give our customers plenty of time to prepare for the price increases.
We wanted to do it in incremental fashion so that we could achieve the increases as well as not put as much pressure as was put on customers in the 2007 2008 price run-up.
So from our perspective we're just simply trying to learn from what were potentially mistakes in the past and turn them into benefits.
And we fully believe we're going to achieve the full $45 and it's not going to be as painful on our customers we gave them time to plan.
Kelvin would you like to add anything that as you were part of the decision process? Elaine I think the other thing that was important is a big piece of our business is the truck market and a $50 increase is of course -- we see this big run of trucks or orders at the end of a certain month and with smaller increases we don't seem to see that.
So it's really balanced off our shipping patterns and I think beneficial both to the customer who's responded positively to the $15 increases and ourselves which we're able better to manage our business with smaller increases.
And then are you realizing then the full $45 per ton increase?  Have you seen -- how have the customers reacted as the new price list? Are they looking to book the nearer-term deliveries?  Or are they more focused a bit on inventories and just willing to wait until they really need the product before placing the order? We haven't seen -- June 1 is the full $45.
So I guess that part remains to be seen but we haven't seen the pushback to date.
And I guess it's really more a weather question than a pricing question today.
Next question comes from David Silver of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
I had a couple of questions I guess focused mainly on the production side.
So maybe John or -- when I look back to other high-volume production periods for your company in 2005 and 2007 the cash production cost number in other words just production cost no DD&amp;A no royalties no by-product revenues $172 was the number I'm thinking about for 1Q.
But if you go back to '05 and '07 for stretches the numbers were in the $110s or $120s.
And thinking about investments you understand your assets very well where the low-hanging fruit is.
Is there an opportunity for looking out to 2013 or so for the New Mexico operations to move down the cost curve significantly from here?  Just thinking about 800 000 tons of sales maybe $40 to $50 per-ton difference there I mean it seems like a significant profit opportunity.
If you could just comment on that.
This is Bob.
I guess the first thing that I'd draw your attention to is that in that same period of time labor costs have continued to increase in the Southeastern Mexico area because it's a very competitive labor market with the oil and gas industry and with other mining industries.
So it's a very very competitive labor market.
We've seen other cost mining equipment cost chemical reagent cost cost up and down.
Our cost structure has gone up significantly.
So it's not just simply about volume in tons.
If we look at other producers of commodities whether they're gold producers coal producers they're seeing the same kind of impacts on their cost structure that we've seen.
The biggest impact that we're going to make to our cost structure is methodology of mining.
And that's why solution mining combined with solar evaporation really is where Intrepid is trying to take itself from a cost standpoint.
As we pointed out many times we believe the new HB Solar Solution Mines can produce tons in the $75 to $80 per-ton range.
That's how you make a significant impact.
We continue to manage labor costs and manage chemical reagent costs manage mining equipment costs in the same fashion that other mining companies are having to mine them but we can't ignore the fact that those costs continue to creep up just like they are for everybody else in the mining industry.
So we're very aware of it we see it we look back at it in the same fashion you do.
And so where we get the biggest bang for our buck or where we make significant changes like the LRIP project and then by adding the compaction piece that allows us to get a higher margin once that product is made just like we're seeing at Moab.
By creating that marketing flexibility we're now marketing that product in regions that previously we didn't have the product quality to even get into.
It wasn't about reaching out it was that the product quality wasn't there to get us into certain markets.
So there are a lot of different ways to focus on your margin and your bottom line.
It's not just cost.
The way we look at it it's all about margin.
John is there anything you'd like to add to that? I think that covers it Bob.
The only little piece I would add is that we continue to manage the amount of development.
And during that period of time we're probably doing a smaller amount of development.
The mine was very well developed.
And we're positioned as we look forward to the future.
Our issue with [ph] development to ore has changed that means we'll be a little lower grade.
As a result we're focusing on moving more tons to offset that and so you'll see that.
If you look at overall tons of material processed and mined those figures are moving up dramatically.
Unfortunately the grade development has actually decreased a bit given this kind of a flattening effect on actual potash production.
If I could follow up maybe on John's last comment.
But I believe one quarter ago in discussing the production potash production expectation for calendar 2011 you kind of guided us maybe towards a certain level I thought closer to 800 000 short tons for the year.
And I look at the production rate which I believe was an all-time record for your company in the first quarter and then allowing for -- there's some apples-to-oranges things with the Moab harvest I guess.
But it does seem like if you can continue at this kind of rough rate you'd be higher on a full year basis maybe significantly so than maybe what you were discussing one quarter ago.
Has anything changed in your production view for 2011 from last quarter to this quarter? And should we think of your production potash production potential as higher than what you were thinking about last conference call? David this is Dave Honeyfield.
I think the comments if I remember right from the last quarter were -- and I think filey [ph] actually called it out pretty well that we really do see higher production numbers in the first quarter of each year and the fourth quarter of each year because of the seasonality of Moab.
The plants are running well.
But I think those numbers are still where we think people should look to for 2011 here.
The expectation would be that as the harvest cycle in Moab completes here in the second quarter that we'll have a little bit lower production numbers in Q2 and Q3.
And then we'll see that pick back up in Q4.
At the same time we've enumerated the projects that are out there and what they're doing on a long-term basis.
So directionally if you look down the road you're going to see improvements.
But I think those numbers are still the right ones to use for this year.
Next question comes from Don Carson of Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP</strong> Just want to go back to those inventories your field inventories.
You had mentioned that the dealers seem to want to hold inventory although obviously there's the risk that they may not be able to sell everything have in inventory now.
And then of course yesterday the largest distributor in the U.S.
indicated they want to run their inventories down by the end of the season.
So I'm wondering whether this latest price increase is really designed to encourage some buying to beat the price increase or whether you think we'll see a replay of last year when had an announced price increase for the summer but pricing still went down and inventories were down as well? As you know the weather is changing daily and weekly and the weather is having impact on people's plans.
So when we talk to our dealers I would say that there is a fundamental underlying belief that the price of potash has the opportunity to get stronger and to be higher.
And so when you talk to most dealers and you look at kind of the fundamental philosophy if you will that's the underlying belief.
Now day-to-day weather changes are going to change in effect the philosophy of certain suppliers.
So what we were clearly feeling as recently as a week or 2 ago dealers bullish on potash for the long-term.
There are certain dealers that have different balance sheet situations different credit situations different board decision-making situations.
And so there's no doubt that we're going to see individual changes or micro-changes within a macro picture.
And so we're still seeing dealers that are bullish on potash.
And I know that you work hard to talk to a lot of people and you're going to find those one-off dealers and distributors that are different than the macro picture.
Now if the weather continues to be what it is then we could see a shift in that for the summer but what we're seeing commodity-price-wise is very strong commodity pricing.
And so we don't anticipate seeing a major fundamental shift in the overall agricultural macro picture.
So yes we're going to see speed bumps just like what we're seeing and I think you're describing a speed bump and that's why we continue to try to manage our business on a long-term basis.
LLLP</strong> And Bob a follow-up on your pricing strategy.
You mentioned that one lesson from 2008 was you didn't want to surprise customers by bumping prices up too aggressively and you seem to be creeping them up now.
What do you think the constraint is on pricing? Does potash have to stay below nitrogen? Because it seemed in 2008 that as potash got above ammonia prices in the corn belt that that seemed to bring about some price resistance on the parts of growers.
Well we're not having significant pricing discussions with end users about the price of potash where it is today.
As Kelvin mentioned the discussion right now is really not about price it's more about timing and movement inventories what's going to happen.
So it's a different discussion.
So it feels very different.
And so that's why I believe in the macro picture -- in the near-term foreseeable future I think we're going to see firm and strong pricing of our product because the demand is there and most importantly the economics are there.
So we haven't even begun to touch any kind of a range where potash is priced too high to affect farmer's economics across the broad spectrum of farmers that use potash.
So we're a long way away from that price point where we're affecting their economics.
So it's a different discussion today than it was in say '08.
And it's a more fundamentally long term story for the price of potash today than it was in 2007 and 2008.
And we're trying to manage our business accordingly.
[Operator Instructions] The next question comes from Fai Lee [ph] an independent analyst.
David I just wanted to talk to you maybe about the Langbeinite Recovery Improvement Project.
You gave some guidance and it was very good.
I just want to better understand that.
So you're going to have higher volumes once that project comes into place and you're going to realize higher prices from selling more granular.
And I think your cost of production will decrease as higher recovery.
But you're going to also have higher DD&amp;A.
So on the gross margin aspect of the project do you expect margins to come down a bit with a higher DD&amp;A or stay relatively flat because the pricing and cost reduction will offset that? I think the cost side on that Fai what you'll see is -- and I think you've captured it pretty well.
Our overall production costs for the langbeinite circuit will be effectively the same as it is today.
But we'll have more tonnage coming through that.
Clearly there is the capital investment that goes along with that.
So for a period of time what you'll see is essentially a trade-off of cash operating costs for DD&amp;A cost on a per-ton basis.
That's no different than any other capital investment projects that you have along the way.
And what we try to keep people focused on is our cash operating cost because that's really how you generate the returns on the capital dollars that were putting to use.
So overall we expect to see that cash operating cost decrease.
And like I said we will see an uptick on the DD&amp;A piece with the capital investment.
And so if you're cash operating costs offset your DD&amp;A but you're still going to sell price -- more granular to be higher-priced then you should get some gross margin expansion as well.
Is that correct? I think you hit it right on the head.
Again the ability to sell all that product into the granular market that based on historical numbers has achieved a $55 to $65 advantage on a per-ton basis over that standard export market makes the economics of the project together with the per-ton cash operating cost very significant.
This concludes the time allocated for questions on today's call.
I will now turn the call back to Mr.
David Honeyfield for any closing comments.
We'd really just like to thank everyone for joining today's call and making the effort and taking the time to learn more about Intrepid.
Have a great day and thanks again.
Good morning and welcome to the Intrepid Potash Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind everyone that this conference is being recorded today August 4 2011 at 8:00 am Mountain Time.
It is my pleasure to turn the conference over to William Kent Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Kent please go ahead.
Thank you Brock and thank you all for joining us for our second quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
I'd like to start by introducing today's participants from the company.
Participants include Bob Jornayvaz Executive Chairman of the Board; Hugh Harvey Executive Vice Chairman; David Honeyfield President and Chief Financial Officer; Martin Litt Executive Vice President and General Counsel; John Mansanti Vice President of Operations; and Kelvin Feist Vice President of Marketing and Sales.
I would like to remind everyone that statements made on this call which express a belief expectation or intention as well as those that are not historical fact are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the United States Securities Laws.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance.
A number of assumptions which we believe are reasonable were made in connection with the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements.
The forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ from our expectations.
For more information with respect to risks uncertainties and other factors which could cause our actual results to differ from our forward-looking statements we direct you to the news release we issued last night and the risk factors and management's discussion and analysis of financial conditions and results of operation in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q as filed with the SEC.
All forward-looking-statements are qualified in their entirety by such factors.
Our earnings news release which is posted on our website at intrepidpotash.com includes a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures including adjusted net income and adjusted EBITDA both of which will be used on this call today.
All references to tons are the short tons of 2 000 pounds.
I'll now turn the call over to Bob Jornayvaz.
Thanks Will.
And thanks to everyone for joining us today to learn more about Intrepid Second Quarter 2011 Results.
During the second quarter we saw a continued strength in the overall commodities markets which helped us deliver a strong quarter of sales.
Further we continue to execute our operating plan and are realizing the benefits of our capital investments with both improved reliability and marketing flexibility.
During the quarter we earned $0.41 per diluted share on net income of $30.7 million and our adjusted EBITDA was $59.9 million.
And we grew our cash and investment positions from the first quarter to $158 million as of June 30.
To put this in perspective our adjusted net income increased over 7x this quarter compared to the same quarter in 2010.
The outlook for potash continues to be one of confidence with strong crop prices for almost every agricultural commodity.
It is supportive of farmer economics.
The current agricultural commodities markets are additionally supported by the forecast for global demand for both corn and soybeans and tight stocks-to-use ratios for these staples.
Put it very simply there is confidence all across the worldwide agricultural economy.
This confidence can be seen at all levels of the supply chain from producers to dealers to retailers and to the end user the farmer.
The fundamentals for the agricultural economy are very good and we believe we have entered a period of sustained strength.
The overall market strength is clearly reflected in the price of potash during the second quarter.
We realized a $20 per ton sequential improvement from the first quarter with our average net realized sales price results for potash coming in at $462 per ton for the second quarter.
Our strong quarterly results focused to volume and pricing were achieved in spite of the fact that there was flooding in the Midwest and severe drought conditions in the Southwest.
As a result of the drought very little product moved in areas such as Oklahoma Kansas and Texas.
It will eventually rain again in these states and we look forward to adding back sales in these high-quality markets.
Our second quarter results demonstrate that the capital investments we have made to improve flexibility and increase our granulation capacity have improved our ability to respond to changing market conditions.
Our successful Moab Utah compactor project demonstrates the advantages of building flexibility into our operations which has allowed us to rightsize our production to meet changing market demands.
We are working diligently to build upon that success that we have realized with the Moab Compaction Project with planned projects to increase our granulation capacities at both our Carlsbad and Wendover operations.
As a result of the capital projects we have underway which are focused on increasing recoveries and production while lowering our per ton cost the next 12 months have the potential to substantially enhance Intrepid's profile by better positioning us to compete in the domestic and global agricultural economy.
Finally we're also seeing the significant returns on the investments we have made in our operating management team.
From Dave Honeyfield's role as President to John Mansanti as Vice President of Operations and Kelvin Feist as our VP of Marketing and Sales we are seeing the rewards of hiring some of the best and the brightest.
We have brought on numerous engineers who have also helped us to creatively solve problems add value and execute consistently on our multi-year growth strategy.
Hugh and I are very proud of this team.
By far and away our employees continue to be our strongest asset.
I'll now turn the call over to John Mansanti our Vice President of Operations.
Thanks Bob.
Our potash production of 209 000 tons in the second quarter of 2011 represents a 27% increase relative to the second quarter of 2010.
During the quarter we realized a benefit of our capital investments and our increased staffing both of which enabled us to deliver strong production to all our sites.
In addition our Moab production benefited from a good solar evaporation cycle which allowed a harvest season one month longer than normal.
We produced 44 000 tons of langbeinite during the second quarter of 2011.
This compares to 39 000 tons produced in the second quarter of last year.
Langbeinite production was higher due to increased mill throughputs higher grades and the restoration recoveries to near-historical levels.
As we highlighted during the first quarter call we began to see a sustained improvement in recoveries beginning in March 2011 and we will focus on maintaining this level of recovery in advance of commissioning the Langbeinite Recovery Improvement Project.
Now a few comments on the significant progress on our 2011 capital investment program.
Having received all the necessary construction permits for the dense media separation plant and the granulation plan the Langbeinite Recovery Improvement Project is progressing well.
Construction remains on track with concrete work complete most of the structural steel in place and a significant amount of equipment delivered and being assembled.
Similar to 2010 we are commissioning one additional mine path at each of our underground mines to increase overall mine production.
The additional West Mine panel is now operational and the additional East Mine panel is scheduled to be operational in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Also during the quarter we started construction on a new compaction facility in the new product warehouse in Wendover.
We've made significant progress.
Foundations are complete for the compactor and compactor building.
The excavation is complete and concrete work started for the new warehouse.
These projects will enable us to better adapt to market fluctuations and to respond to specific demand.
All of these projects are geared towards increasing recoveries increasing production and decreasing per-ton costs.
In 2011 we expect to invest between $140 million and $165 million in our capital investment projects.
Based on the receipt of permits for certain significant capital projects most specifically LRIP and the overall progress on our capital program we believe that we will be closer to the top of this range in terms of capital investment for 2011.
I'll turn the call over to Kelvin Feist our Vice President of Marketing and Sales.
Thank you John.
As noted our sales results for the second quarter were strong despite extreme drought in the Southern markets and flooding across areas of the Midwest.
We sold 225 000 tons of potash during the second quarter.
This compares to 129 000 tons of potash sold in the second quarter of 2010.
We also sold 39 000 tons of Trio as compared to 63 000 tons of Trio sold in the second quarter of 2010.
The year-to-year decrease in Trio sales is primarily a result of having more product available for sale a year ago than this year.
On June 1 our posted price for Carlsbad red granular potash moved to $530 per ton FOB the mine.
Based on continued steady demand for the product we raised our posted price for our red granular potash on July 8 to the current price of $560 per ton.
Demand for all grades of Trio remained strong during the quarter and we expect continued Trio strength through the balance of 2011.
Due to this strong demand for Trio we also raised our posted price for granular-sized Trio on August 1 by $20 per ton to $291 per ton FOB our Carlsbad mine.
We're seeing more confidence at the dealer level in the market than a year ago.
We saw this at the Southwest Fertilizer Conference 2 weeks ago where the majority of the fertilizer dealers we met with were primarily focused on future product availability.
Many dealers entered the summer carrying inventory which is a significant departure from the hand-to-mouth type consumption that we saw from dealers in the spring of 2010.
The distribution system confidence did not stop at the dealer level but extends all the way through the supply chain to retailers and farmers.
Strong order activity has us substantially sold out for potash on a rail-delivered basis for the third quarter.
Dave Honeyfield will take the call from here and wrap up our prepared comments.
Thanks Kelvin.
Potash production at all of our facilities in the quarter was quite strong which benefited our cash operating cost of goods sold demonstrating the benefit of improved reliability of the facilities.
Please remember that the cash operating COGS number has some variability from quarter-to-quarter.
These variances are somewhat driven by the location from which tons are sold as well as the timing of turnaround maintenance work.
Specifically we anticipate higher cash operating cost of goods sold per ton in the third and fourth quarters this year based on scheduled plant downtime for maintenance and the tie-in of new plant and equipment.
Consistent with our view expressed since the beginning of the year we expect to deliver an annual cash operating cost of goods sold for potash in a range of $170 to $180 per ton.
I want to bring folks up-to-date as to the progress around our HB Solar Solution Mine.
The current schedule for receiving the Record of Decision from the BLM remains in the first quarter of 2012.
We also just received from the New Mexico Environment Department the air quality permit associated with the mill for the HB project.
As we move closer to the Record of Decision date on the project we continue to update the cost estimates based on the dynamic permitting process and consideration of project design refinements.
Further we're not insulated from the cost escalation trends being experienced throughout the mining industry.
Based on these factors we anticipate that the total capital investment requirements for the HB Solar Solution Mine will be higher possibly significantly higher than the previously disclosed range of $120 million to $130 million.
We have not finalized our estimates so I don't have an investment number today.
Nonetheless we continue to see the HB project as an important and very attractive financial investment that fits squarely within our overall capital strategy of increased productivity and decreased cash operating cost per ton.
On the modeling front I want to reemphasize an item that I covered last quarter concerning depreciation depletion and amortization.
Over the next few years as we place new equipment into service DD&amp;A in total dollars and on a per ton basis will increase for potash in proportion to our cumulative invested capital.
Similarly for Trio you should also expect DD&amp;A to be higher once the LRIP project is completed and we see the benefits of higher recoveries flowthrough lower cash cost to goods sold per ton.
I also want to remind folks that you're estimating net realized sales price -- that our reported average net realized sales price per ton for potash typically has been about 85% to 90% of our posted red granular sales price because of the different markets in which we sell our products competitive customer discounts and the mix between standard and granular sales.
Additionally it takes approximately 75 to 90 days to see the full effect of a new posted price on average net realized sales price.
Moving to the financing front please note that we closed on a new 5-year revolving credit facility yesterday with $250 million of available capacity.
The new facility not only represents a doubling of availability under the facility but also reflects a positive view of the market in that the facility is unsecured.
In closing the second quarter of 2011 demonstrated how focusing on the reliability of our mines and plants and building flexibility into our production system allows us to quickly adapt to changing or challenging market conditions.
Our focus is on continually driving our core goals of increased recoveries increased reliability increased productivity and reduced per-ton costs.
As highlighted previously the next year should result in achieving a number of major milestones aligned with these objectives including the commissioning of the Langbeinite Recovery Improvement Project the completion of the Wendover Compaction Project and importantly the permitting of the HB Solar Solution Mine.
These projects are all well within reach and should ultimately lead to increased volumes of lower-cost tons and opportunity for increased margin.
We believe that when you combine the advantages of our facilities' locations and the strategic marketing of our products together with the ability to effectively fund and execute on our significant capital investments that we are well-positioned to benefit from the strong agricultural fundamentals and to capitalize on future opportunities.
We'll now open the lines for any questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question today comes from Edlain Rodriguez of Gleacher &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Just quick question on potash prices.
I mean are you lagging in terms of your pricing announcements in terms of the posted price? Because some of the larger players they already have $590 -- they've already announced a $590 price since we reported fourth quarter.
So are you going to catch up with that? I mean especially given that you're saying there's like a 75 to 90 days for those prices to take effect.
I'm going to let Kelvin address where we are on pricing and how we're quickly monitoring the market and keeping our flexibility to raise prices as the market allows us to.
Kelvin you want to address that? Sure.
Edlain with regard to potash prices what we saw is some of the stuff you're referencing I believe is the delivered price probably into the Midwest Edlain.
That's normally where most people are looking.
And that was some of those numbers in the $590 to $600 whether it be warehouse or rail-delivered.
I guess I was referencing an FOB price out of Carlsbad so that's the differential that you see.
This is Dave.
Just to make clear on that we believe we're at least caught up to where the rest of the market is.
But like Kelvin said you really have to take what delivery point and make sure you're comparing apples-to-apples when you're looking at that posted price.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Makes sense.
Another quick question on potash production.
If we were to assume that potash demand comes in as strong as expected and you can sell everything that you produce like how much can you really produce for a year? I mean you're already at like what? 443 000 tons? Like what's the capacity -- what's the production capacity for the full year? Edlain this is Dave.
Pretty consistent with what we've been saying since the beginning of the year.
That number I think we've referenced on the last call was approximately 800 000 tons.
Please keep in mind the variability that we have and you'll see it here in the third quarter where we don't have production numbers coming in from Moab because we're in the evaporation cycle.
So we're certainly seeing the benefit of the plants running well very good reliability the plants operating at full capacity.
But I don't think I'd get too far ahead of kind of where we've said right now.
John's already mentioned the additional mining panels that are coming online and we'll start to see the benefit of that a little bit throughout the year here.
But I think just keeping in perspective that is some new equipment coming in and don't think we're ready to go out any further than we have at this point on some of those estimates.
The other thing to always remember Edlain is that as we bring on some of these new projects we have to turn things off to tie new projects in.
And so some especially the LRIP project which is a project that is very significant to us we want to make sure we get it right and that we get it up and installed.
And so we're going to do our best to do it in as short a time period as we can but we've tried to be very realistic in -- when you take a plant down to add new capacity the fact of the matter is you're taking something offline to bring a bigger project online.
The next question comes from Ben Isaacson of Scotia Capital.
My first question is just on your inventory levels.
Your potash sales quarter-over-quarter increased by 15% and your production went down by 11%.
So I'll assume that there's a bit of a draw on inventory.
Can you just tell us where you stand right now heading into the fall? My second question is on Moab.
You had what you call excellent brine levels and favorable harvest conditions.
Can you just distinguish between [indiscernible] and how much each one of those contributed to the extra production? Ben this is Dave.
I'll take the question on inventory.
And John if you can touch on Moab that'd be great.
On the inventory piece I'd say we're at -- we feel very good about the inventory levels.
One of the things we've been doing certainly on the sales side is making sure that we have product available for truck deliveries at the plant and then scheduling out some of the larger rail shipments.
Pretty consistent with the market demand and making sure we're getting the benefit of market pricing on that.
So inventories are getting I'd say are getting tighter at the producer level and I think you've seen that through some of the data that's been put out into the market right now.
But overall I'd say we still continue to believe that we can take care of our customer needs and we feel pretty good about where we're at on inventory and production levels.
Could you repeat the question on brine again or on Moab? So you mentioned that the Moab's solar solution mine benefited during the quarter from both excellent brine levels and from favorable harvest conditions.
I just wanted to kind of understand how much each of those contributed to the improved level of production in the quarter.
I think the statement was we benefited from a better solar evaporation season and then an extended harvest.
To have the extended harvest you have to have the beneficial season.
And so because there was a good solar year last year we put down more product which allowed us to extend our harvest season this spring.
The next question comes from Elaine Yip from Credit Suisse.
So on your HB Solar Solution Mine project can you provide a bit more color on what's driving the higher capital cost outlook? Is it simply about rising cost for equipment? Or is there something else to it? Whether or not the project is more complicated than you thought? Or there are more regulatory requirements? If you could provide a bit more color that would be helpful.
You bet.
This is Bob.
Thanks for the question.
It's a combination of all of the above.
First we are upsizing our pond size.
And so part of that has been negotiations for a lack of a better term with the BLM in terms of upsizing and increasing the pond capacity.
The second is kind of ongoing negotiations in terms of how much of the piping will be buried versus not buried how much in the way of monitoring wells -- how many monitoring wells we're going to have to provide.
We have seen some inflation in some of the core costs.
So if everything goes right we're going to see slightly increased capacities in the ability to run at a higher level because of a larger sizing of the project.
But please remember that it's all iterative and part of an EIS process so there's negotiation.
So we're not sure which -- if we're going to have to bury all piping some piping.
And so what we're trying to tell the market is that as we get closer and closer to the final outcome we don't know what that answer's going to be.
And so we're trying to make you aware that if we had to do everything that they might want us to do that we're going to see potentially significantly higher costs but we're also trying to rightsize or upsize the project within the confines of the EIS and trying to get it as big as we can within the confines of the EIS so that there will also be potential rewards from that.
But just please keep in mind that when you're in EIS process and you're negotiating with governmental regulatory agencies it's not as clear a black-and-white line until you kind of get to closer to the Record of Decision.
Dave or John would like to add anything to that? This is Dave.
Elaine even though I've commented that I don't have a number to give you right now.
I can tell you that we have run an awful lot of sensitivities and like I mentioned this is still a very very strong financial return on the capital investment really throughout a range of costs.
And given the production tons that will come on and the low-cost nature of those this is just still a darn good project for us and one that we're anxious to get permitted and to get started on.
And then in the langbeinite business are the issues that drove the below-normal recovery rates fixed now or is there more room to improve? And then with respect to the LRIP project itself are the capital costs still in line with your original estimate of I believe $85 million? Elaine this is Dave again.
Yes really since March of this year we've seen a nice stabilization of the recovery rates.
And I think we've largely addressed what we need to to get back to kind of that historical production level.
So you shouldn't see too much variability through the remainder couple of quarters on that.
In terms of the LRIP project like John touched on we got the permit for the pelletization plant in the second quarter.
Construction is moving along very well.
It's pretty incredible to see all the steel that's been hung and the foundations and the electrical equipment that's been put in place and the number of pieces of processing equipment that are being delivered and on-site.
So we still anticipate that coming in on time in the fourth quarter like we've described.
And on the capital cost side we're squarely within that range that we've provided.
And as long as -- staying on schedule is a big part of helping meet those objectives.
So everything on that front is continuing to progress on a positive basis.
The next question comes from Mark Connelly of CLSA.
Two questions.
First last quarter you talked about weather impacting timing and location of sales.
It sounds like that's more or less true this quarter.
I'm curious if it's making much difference to your profitability.
I mean you talked about building in flexibility but has it made a meaningful difference or are you trying to just get your costs down in distribution flexibility in general? Also curious if you're selling anything through Canpotex at this point.
And then the second question -- I know that's a long question is with respect to Carlsbad.
Given the projects that you've got underway how close to what you would consider your own practical capacity are you running at this point? Are you pretty much doing everything that you can do there? Mark thanks for the question.
Let me handle a couple of different parts of it.
First Canpotex is an organization comprised of Canadian producers.
And so we don't have any affiliation whatsoever with Canpotex.
But you do sell some tons through them once in a while in the export market right? No.
We absolutely do not.
PotashCorp.
represents us on our potash sales outside the United States.
We don't sell any -- we rarely sell any potash outside the United States.
We do sell Trio outside the United States and it's through PCS Sales not Canpotex.
Sorry about that.
No no no.
We just need to make it clear.
As to weather impacting us I think the one thing that we have continued to do is to monitor the weather monitor where farmers are farming the most and where we have the greatest margin opportunities and I think it's clearly -- the strength of our marketing staff clearly has done a great job and is reflected in our realized net sales prices.
So weather will always impact our markets.
And I guess our location being proximate to the market really helps us with that flexibility piece.
Kelvin you want to add something to that as well? Mark I just wanted to add that our bigger challenge is really on the logistics side.
There was a number of rail embargoes for example in the Midwest where we're trying to work around and supply product just in time to those markets.
So it was really a logistics challenge that we're dealing with when we refer to some of that weather impacting our business.
And I guess what we're looking at from a netback perspective is we're looking at all the markets.
Certainly some are better netbacks than others and we continue to try to maximize our return based on what's available or what areas have strong demand.
And I just want to emphasize what a great job the marketing team did because Texas Oklahoma and Southern Kansas were basically out of the market.
And yet we still had a significant performance.
So as I've said in my comments we believe it will eventually rain in Texas and those markets will return.
And we look forward to that because it just shows the strength of the overall markets in spite of the fact that those states couldn't participate.
As to Carlsbad and our effective operating level we continue to look at every place where we can tweak recoveries tweak production improve production.
But I just can't stress as we -- there's a whole list of small projects that we continue to add onto that we don't describe that -- sometimes you take a plant down to keep adding something onto it.
So we're still in that stage of bringing projects on.
Dave I don't know if there's anything you'd like to add as to current capacity levels? No no I think that's pretty fair.
Bob and Mark we really are we're running those plants at full staffing levels.
And like I said before we're seeing the benefit of a very reliable production base.
And that in conjunction with the projects Bob described I think it's helpful to appreciate the sheer number of projects.
It's not a list of 10.
It's a list of a couple hundred.
And I think sometimes when you take a step back and put that into perspective it gives you a good appreciation for all the work that's been going on day-to-day particularly at the Carlsbad location.
So I think we're running at pretty full capacity right now and we'll start to see the increasing benefits here as some of these things continue to get put in place.
Mark did we cover all your questions? Yes.
I still don't really have an answer to the first question about whether it affected your results.
I mean it sounds like your netbacks are all over the place and that's fine but I'm just trying to get a sense of whether you're -- it's hurting you.
I mean logistics -- when I hear somebody say logistics and rail issues it sounds to me like your costs should be up and your netbacks should be down.
But you don't want to tell us this right? Well Mark I guess I would ask you to ask your question again.
Because I felt like we had a very unique weather year in the floods in the Midwest the rail embargoes that occurred the tracks that were actually washed out the fact that we had droughts in some of our most localized markets yet we still had a great quarter of sales and we achieved higher netbacks than our competitors.
So I don't really know that I understand your question.
Bob I'm just trying to understand how much those issues affected you.
I mean clearly your results are good.
The question is are you being severely affected by these changes or is it minor? And is this masking how good they could have even been? l mean we're just trying to get to what might be more normal when these issues go away.
I see where you're going.
And I guess I would just ask you to consider -- Texas is a great market for us in terms of being a very diverse agricultural market.
And they would have the same profitability opportunities to grow various crops in Texas and those are our truck markets.
So had we had our truck market which is typically our highest netbacks yes the answer is: we could have had a better quarter because we just simply didn't have a truck market this quarter.
So we're very proud of the fact that we were able to work around the fact that our truck market because of drought and flooding didn't exist.
So I hope I'm -- maybe I'm not understanding your question right but I hope I'm trying to give you a feel for it.
The next question is from Vincent Andrews of Morgan Stanley.
This is Ted Drangula sitting in for Vincent.
A couple of questions on the global supply-demand outlook.
I mean we've heard anywhere from kind of 55 to 60 million metric tons which we're also starting to hear the high end of that range is probably not going to be achievable.
I guess first where do you guys see 2011 shipments for potash shaking out? And then where do you see kind of nameplate and operational capacity as it stands as we get to the end of 2011? And maybe a little color on 2012 especially as it looks like there's going to be some flowover of demand from India and possibly China? Well when we look at demand worldwide I think the first thing we want to look at is just underlying commodity price strength.
And so whether or not it's in sugar -- coffee has seen a bit of a correction yet it's corrected to very very significant high levels.
Cotton market is still quite strong.
The corn market despite very very significant volatility is still extremely strong by any historic standard.
Soybeans continue to be priced at the upper levels of historic ranges.
Wheat we're going to see and have seen more of a correction as there's more wheat available on the market.
The rice market has firmed.
So we're seeing strength in the rice market.
The palm oil market is quite strong.
And so as we see this incredible spectrum of strength across the commodity markets there's every reason to believe that demand is going to stay strong again next year because farmers worldwide have great margin and profit opportunities.
So we're not seeing anything out there on the worldwide horizon that leads us to believe that we're going to see a drop-off in the next 12 to 18 months.
In fact the indicators are pointing towards more continued fundamental strength.
As to a volume prediction I'm going to stay away from a worldwide volume prediction.
The Canadian guys do a better job of providing those numbers because they're much more active in the world market.
But from our standpoint and the discussions that we're having with the farmers in all of our markets we continue to believe that the balance of 2011 and looking into 2012 we're going to see continued strength in the potash market.
As to once again a capacity -- second part of your question I think revolved around capacity.
I'll let Dave add any color to that that he'd like to add.
Yes.
I think we've already really addressed that relative to Intrepid and Ted I wasn't sure if that was tied into kind of global supply.
My sense is it was.
So again we probably don't have a response for you on that front.
But I think we've already addressed our capacity and where we think we're going to be for the year here.
Next question is from Lindsay Drucker Mann of Goldman Sachs.
Just wanted to follow up on your comment that you are seeing some dealers having built inventory over the summertime.
Curious if you could just compare where you think inventory levels might be relative to historically what had been held? And also if you think that further inventory build might be a demand tailwind into next year or if we're generally appropriate or maybe even overextended? Lindsay great question.
I think the one thing that caught us by surprise going back to 2008 was all the inventory that was stored away in every cubbyhole on the retailer the dealer -- I mean there was just so much more inventory if we go back and look at September of 2008.
One of the things that we're trying to do is to monitor -- we're trying to get out in the field as much as we can and poke our heads in as many warehouses as we can to make sure that we're not caught by surprise by any excess demand that exists out there.
We're not seeing any right now.
We're seeing product that is generally going straight from the dealer into the farmer's hands.
And we are seeing dealers wanting to -- I would say right now dealers are relatively empty.
But they are wanting to buy product and they're wanting to buy product into the fall and we're seeing our competitors willing to sell forward into the fall so we're going to -- not stay out of the market but we're going to participate in the market.
We're not seeing anything from an inventory level that would remotely concern us.
We learned our lesson in 2008 by not monitoring inventories at all levels along the supply chain.
And this time we are doing it very closely.
And with that I'll let Kelvin add any color.
In 2010 I think most of the dealers and consequently the farmers got somewhat caught on lack of supply of potash specifically.
And so I think in 2011 what we see them is taking positions because they really believe that there's demand out there to fulfill for the fall season.
So they're committing further forward than they did previously.
And I guess that's the comment.
In terms of physical inventory in the field out there traditionally the dealer group or the inventory at the field level will be 100% by the time we hit fall.
So there's some selling into that and some inventories are going to steadily increase until farmers get into the fields which is likely October November time frame.
So between now and then there will be a summer fill of all the I guess warehouse space if you will at the field level.
So does that answer your question? Yes.
Just maybe following along those lines how do you guys -- I know it's still a bit early but what's your feel on the pace of price increases we might see sequentially into application season? I think we're going to continue to see the price increases that have been announced realized.
Everything that we have announced I don't think we're going to see any problem realizing.
I think once again rather than talking about where our specific pricing is going I just want to comment on the underlying fundamental strength of the ag markets and the markets that we're serving in spite of the absence of very significant [indiscernible] like Texas Southern Kansas and Oklahoma because of the drought.
So we're seeing a very very strong fundamental foundation in spite of the fact that big parts of the market are absent.
So we think that there's reason to believe that these -- we're just going to continue to see strength assuming Texas Oklahoma and Kansas see some rain.
I just want to make it clear that we're not relying on rain in those states.
We're seeing a great market with those states out of the market.
And then lastly I know that it's early to give numbers around the HB Solution Mine CapEx the ultimate number there.
But you talked about some of the reasons can you maybe just put some buckets around what the largest piece of the CapEx will be? Or something else to help us dimensionalize where the big pieces of spending or the big increases in spending relative to your expectation are going to be? We're going to get there pretty soon as we continue to negotiate with the BLM in terms of pond size.
Because let's not forget if we get to increase pond capacity then we increase production.
And so let's always keep in mind that it's not just a cost element but what additional production do we see from that.
So it's just a little premature.
We don't know exactly how many monitoring wells for example we're going to have to drill.
We don't know how much pipeline we're actually going to have to bury.
So it's just a little premature.
We're just trying to tell you what we know as quickly as we know it and you're just going to have to bear with us on that.
The next question is from David Silver of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
I have a question on pricing and I had a question on kind of maybe hurdle rates and returns.
But in the second quarter your average realized potash price was $462 and I guess that's always a big mix of prepay and spot tons.
But I guess in the calendar third quarter my sense is that there's not much prepaid business.
So I'm just scratching my head and I'm wondering how close to let's call it the $560 FOB Carlsbad price do you think we might see in the third quarter relative to the $462 you reported in the second quarter? Is that an apples-to-apples question or am I missing something there? David this is Dave Honeyfield.
I think what we'd ask you to look at are some of the comments that we've said pretty consistently over the years in that it usually takes about 75 to 90 days to start to see those price increases be reflected.
And then we tend to be about 85% to 90% just because of all the reasons that I listed in our comments.
So directionally yes you should expect to see price -- our net realized price improve from where it was here in the second quarter.
And you'll see that continue to flow through in the fourth quarter as well as we start to see the benefit of the July 8 price increase that we talked about.
So I think that using those historical sideboards should give you a pretty good feel for where we can get to.
I've just been hearing from other folks that the normal summer discounting was not in effect this year just due to tight market conditions.
Dave I think you're actually spot on that front too.
You didn't see what historically -- I mean historically is always season to season it feels like.
But if you look at last summer for example there was a price decrease that came through in summer fill.
And you didn't see that at all this year.
Rather you saw the increases take place.
So I think that you just see a little bit steadier trajectory here.
I know you've touched on it several times on this call.
But now the other thing I wanted to ask you is maybe also related to some of your earlier answers but having to do with the LRIP and the HB questions.
And I guess in particular maybe you could just refresh if you could just refresh my memory on how you view hurdle rates or returns? So I mean Dave you're the CFO but in the room there you have the founders couple of founders and large shareholders.
And they might look at the investments or the projects just slightly differently.
So I'm guessing -- I'm trying to get away from somebody in a cubicle looking at maybe delays in the HB mine due to the permitting issues or increased labor costs and just trying to get a sense of how comfortable you are or what kind of margins for error there is in your thinking about those LRIP and the HB mine projects as you acknowledge there are still some remaining uncertainties before you can finalize cost estimates and I guess production expectations.
Dave this is Bob.
On the HB project let's not forget that when it's completed we're going to be producing potash at cash costs somewhere in the $75 to $85 per ton.
And so those are very very potentially profitable tons to produce.
And the HB project is a great project that we feel has -- it's a great potential game changer for Intrepid to be able to produce tons that inexpensively.
That's why we're so focused on getting the first phase as right as we can within the confines of the EIS agreement and the return of very very significant and very very attractive returns that I would make and invest in the area of my business anywhere in the world.
So from a founder's perspective we think it's potentially -- it's just a very significantly good project for us.
LRIP is the same way.
Let's not forget at LRIP that we're already spending the money to mine those tons hoist those tons process those tons.
And that the LRIP project occurs on the backside of the process flow.
So it's all about recovery.
So once again it's also a very attractive investment because of the fact that you're already spending so much money to get the ore into the plant and to get it processed.
Very very unique opportunity to add tons or pick up tons produce tons from the recovery side of a plant.
It's very unique.
And we're seeing the demand for Trio consistently get better and better.
We're seeing -- that market is just one of our best and most prolific markets if we had more product to sell into it.
But once again we believe it's one of the better projects that we can invest in anywhere.
We're very very proud of that project.
And we think that project has room for growth as well.
It also -- the project the LRIP project handles water balance issues.
It solves operating issues at the East plant that has significant synergistic benefits with how we run that plant.
So it's halfway through completion.
It's going along very well.
It's on budget.
Everything looks pretty darn good.
So from a founder's perspective and as a major stockholder I can't tell you how excited we are about those projects.
I hope that's the kind of color you're looking for.
Yes.
That's very helpful.
The next question comes from Horst Hueniken from Stifel Nicholas.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Good morning.
Are you able to quantify the effect of the scheduled turnarounds over the next 2 quarters potentially in the form of the number of weeks you will not be producing? Horst this is Dave.
I think at the East plant you should expect that it'll be a couple of weeks mostly towards the end of the third quarter here.
And you really don't see the effect of that on your cost of goods sold really until the next quarter.
Similarly we'll have some -- the effect of turnaround from the West plant that will be reflected here in the third quarter.
In terms of giving you spot-on numbers please don't forget the fact that you're not going to see much in the way of Moab production coming in this quarter.
So I wouldn't just take the math to East and West and extend it from there.
And then you've got the commissioning of the LRIP plant that will largely take place in the fourth quarter this year.
So we'll see a little bit of tie-in time as we tie those pieces of equipment in as well.
So it's a little tricky to give you just spot-on numbers for each one of those.
But just recognize that you'll see a little bit of dip here on the production front here in the third quarter and we'll get you updated on fourth quarter when we get closer to it.
The next question is from Fai Lee [ph] an independent analyst.
My question relates to the reopening of the idle North Mine -- it seems in the past that the market sense of the project was progress depended on market condition.
I'm just wondering where this project stands given the current market conditions.
Fai this is Dave.
We have longer-term initiatives around a number of projects and one of them is the North Mine area.
It continues to be in our evaluation sites and we're looking at a number of items around timing the characterization of the ore sizing of facility.
So it's certainly on the task list and there's work going on around it.
As we sit here right now there's not a date certain or anything along those lines to I think update folks on.
I think just recognize that it's still on the sites.
And I think like you mentioned certainly when you see longer-term stability on the potash side these projects just become more and more attractive and a big part of our challenge and a big part of our charge is to figure out ways to accelerate the reserve life and bring some of that production onboard sooner than later.
Because it just makes all the sense in the world from a net present value perspective.
I guess maybe I'll just follow-up with a question regarding pricing.
Are current market prices in your opinion sufficient to potentially justify reopening of the idle North Mine? I know there's a lot of work still to be done.
But I think at the time the comment was the project was almost put on hold because of pricing concerns.
And have we seen a rebound in pricing that's sufficient to justify the project? Fai let me jump in here and add -- one of the things that we're really trying to do at Carlsbad is to look at the Carlsbad mines as an operating system.
And so if we look at how the North Mine used to operate -- let's not forget it closed down in 1982.
It's got several ore zones that are open to us and we're looking at how can we combine -- if we were to reopen the North Mine with some of the production streams at the East Mine to handle different orders that we're currently not mining in the capacity that we have.
So when we look at reopening the North Mine it's also in the context of how do we create an entire potash-producing system given the whole variety of assets that exist within the fence down at Carlsbad.
So it's not just -- we don't view it as a stand-alone project.
We view it as an integral puzzle piece to a much larger system that we are trying to create out there.
And by viewing it that way we think we can greatly reduce overall production costs over time.
And I think that that's a better way to view it than opening it as a stand-alone facility.
I know that sounds a bit esoteric but when you look at it from an engineering standpoint and its proximity to our East and West Mines and how it could potentially fit into the HB Solar Solution Mine system there's just tremendous opportunities in how you potentially design that.
Technologies have come a long way especially potash processing technologies.
And so given the significant ores that exist out there there's just a lot of opportunity.
But right now we are focused on the projects that are in front of us which were the stacker that we built the thickeners that we built the new mine panels that we've added the entire shaft system that we've rebuilt at West.
We look at what we're doing the new flow plant we built at West as well.
Each one of these things is part of a much bigger more integrated system.
And so as you hear every quarter we just keep executing on each one of those pieces of this giant puzzle.
I'm glad you brought up the North Mine again because it too is part of this big system if you will that continues to get moved forward.
So thank you for bringing it up.
There are no further questions at this time.
I'll turn the call back over to Mr.
David Honeyfield for any closing comments.
Thank you Brock.
Since we don't see any other questions at this time we'd like to thank everyone for joining today's call and for your interest in Intrepid.
Have a great rest of the day.
Thanks.
Good morning and welcome to the Intrepid Potash Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind everyone that this conference is being recorded today November 3 2011 at 8:00 a.m.
Mountain Time.
It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to William Kent Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Kent please go ahead.
Good morning and thank you all for joining us for our third quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
I'd like to start by introducing today's participants from the company.
Participants include Hugh Harvey Executive Vice Chairman; David Honeyfield President and Chief Financial Officer; Martin Litt Executive Vice President and General Counsel; and Kelvin Feist Senior Vice President of Marketing and Sales.
Bob Jornayvaz Executive Chairman of the Board will not be on the call with us today as he is currently out of the country and you will we rejoin us for the fourth quarter and year-end call.
Hugh Harvey will be covering the operations portion of the call for John Mansanti our Senior Vice President of Operation as John is on voice rest recovering from voice surgery.
I would like to remind everyone that statements made on this call which express a belief expectation or intention as well as those that are not historical fact are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the United States Securities Laws.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance.
A number of assumptions which we believe are reasonable were made in connection with the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements.
The forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ from our expectations.
For more information with respect to the risks uncertainties and other factors which could cause our actual results to differ from our forward-looking statements we direct you to our news release we issued last night and the risk factors and management's discussion and analysis of financial conditions and results of operation in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and the subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q as filed with the SEC.
All forward-looking-statements are qualified in their entirety by such factors.
Our earnings news release which is posted on our website intrepidpotash.com includes a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures including adjusted net income and adjusted EBITDA.
All references to tons are short tons of 2 000 pounds.
I'll now turn the call over to Dave Honeyfield.
Thanks Will.
And thanks to those joining us today to learn more about Intrepid's third quarter 2011 results.
The third quarter was good for us as we continue to make progress on our large capital projects and we continued to strengthen our operating practices.
During the third quarter we realized a $27 per ton improvement to our net realized sales price per potash and $29 per ton improvement for Trio and had solid sales of both potash and Trio.
During the quarter we earned $0.34 per diluted share on net income of $25.5 million and our adjusted EBITDA was $51 million which helped fund our capital investments as well as grow our cash and investment position to $169 million as of September 30.
The outlook for potash remains positive as we see fall harvest drawing to a close and farmers beginning to prepare their soils for the 2012 season.
Crop economics for U.S.
farmers have remained strong in light of the continued tight domestic stock-to-use ratios for both corn and soybeans.
Dealers entered the fall with healthy inventory positions and should be turning over their inventories during the fall application window.
The current market scenario is completely different from what we saw last year at this time when dealers entered the fall of 2010 short of inventory and scrambling to get caught up to meet farmer demand.
Dealers presently are well stocked with inventory and there is some sideway selling among a handful of traders seeking liquidity of their positions.
That being said potash pricing from a producer perspective is flat which we would expect until a replacement of inventory by dealers resumes and ultimately the fundamentals of the positive crop economics are reflected in the market.
The value of balance fertilization is well understood and is acknowledged by farmers as the key to generating strong yield on their investments in land equipment seed and fertilizer.
The increase in our average net realized sales price per potash to $489 per ton in the third quarter was achieved despite the weather challenges faced by some of our customers.
In particular we faced continuing drought conditions in Texas and delays in shipments of several committed orders due to high water on the Missouri River.
Our sales and marketing team has done a great job of expanding our reach and leveraging the flexibility of our production assets to keep tons moving albeit with some higher freight costs in certain cases.
We believe that strong crop economics will continue to incentivize farmers to apply nutrients at a normal rate this fall in preparation for the 2012 season.
The marketing flexibility we've created through our ongoing investments in granulation capacity positions Intrepid to meet what we believe will be strong domestic agricultural demand over the next year.
During the quarter we made great progress on our capital investments with our Langbeinite Recovery Improvement Project moving closer to completion with progress being made on our Wendover compaction plant and warehouse and the continued forward movement on our HB Solar Solution Mine project.
The consistent objective of our capital investment program is to deliver a reliable production stream of high-quality product and a grower production with incrementally lower cost tons.
We're within 3 months of seeing an increase in our langbeinite production through improve recoveries at a time when the demand for our Trio product is as good as ever.
Hugh will go into more detail on some of the projects.
But before he does I just want to reiterate that each of our projects whether they're the headline projects listed above or smaller projects such as the installation and commissioning of the distributor control system that occurred in Carlsbad during that third quarter are each building blocks that provide the foundation for growing our production and driving efficiencies throughout our business.
Hugh Harvey will take the call from here.
Thanks Dave.
Our potash production of 173 000 tons in the third quarter of 2011 represents a 4% increase relative to the third quarter of 2010 and was in line with our expectations.
During the quarter we had very good performance from our West and Wendover facilities.
We also began the harvest in mid-September from our Moab solar solution mine following the summer evaporation season.
At our East Facility we performed the annual scheduled turnaround maintenance during which we tied in the new fluidized bed dryer a portion of the LRIP project to the existing plant.
We are pleased to report that the new drying system will be handed over from the engineering department to the operations group very soon.
At our East plant we experienced some reduced production ahead of the scheduled turnaround.
There were a couple of pieces of equipment that required maintenance ahead of the planned work.
The result was higher-than-anticipated production cost from our East Mine during the quarter.
Going forward we continue to anticipate that our annual cash cost of goods sold net of by-product credits will be in the range of $170 to $180 per ton as we have said throughout the year.
We produced 35 000 tons of langbeinite during the third quarter of 2011 -- excuse me 35 000 tons of langbeinite during the third quarter.
This compares to 32 000 tons produced in the third quarter of last year.
We are looking forward to increasing our recoveries of Trio with the commissioning of dense media separation portion of the plant during the fourth quarter.
We also anticipate having the granulation plant placed into service during early 2012.
I am pleased to report that we are right on budget with the LRIP project.
As we described in our earlier press release we will continue to invest in and build increased capacity and flexibility into our production system with the approval of the new North compaction plant.
This new more efficient plant is designed to accommodate all of the production from the expansion of our mining and milling operations at our West facility together with the anticipated production from the HB Solar Solution Mine.
The current schedule for receiving the Record of Decision from the BLM for the HB Solar Solution Mine remains on track for the first quarter of 2012.
As we move closer to the expected Record of Decision date we have updated the project cost estimates to incorporate the changes in scope to accommodate alternatives described in the draft EIS as well as to consider cost updates for labor piping equipment and numerous other elements of the project.
The Board of Directors recently approved the updated authorization for expenditure associated with the HB mine to an estimated $200 million to $230 million of capital investment.
Of this $30.5 million has been invested to date.
The capital authorization was based on the evaluation and conclusion that the product continues to be an important and financially attractive investment that fits within our overall business strategy of increasing productivity and decreasing our cash operating cost per ton.
During the third quarter we also commissioned a new mine panel at our West Mine which increased the capacity of the underground mine.
We expect to see some more benefits from our new mine panel at the East Mine in the first quarter of 2012.
As touched on earlier we also completed the installation and commissioning of our distributed control systems and related instrumentation at both our West underground mine and our surface mill at the East plant.
In Wendover Utah we are progressing with construction of a new compaction granulation plant which has the designed capacity to compact all of our production from this facility.
The majority of the steel has been erected and we expect the new system will be in service by the end of the year as planned.
In addition the construction of the new product warehouse in Wendover is progressing on budget and should be in service in early 2012.
Our total capital investment for 2011 is expected to be towards the top end of our previously disclosed range of $140 million to $155 million.
Now I'll turn the call over to Kelvin Feist our Senior Vice President of Marketing and Sales.
Thank you Hugh.
As noted our sales results in the third quarter were very good.
We sold 190 000 tons of potash which compares to 221 000 tons of potash sold in the third quarter of 2010 a time when dealers were stocking a nearly empty supply chain.
Additionally due to the success of the Moab compactor project and the increased granular capacity we have been able to expand our supply to new markets and strengthen the relationships with customers in these regions.
We also sold 54 000 tons of Trio as compared with 45 000 tons of Trio sold in the third quarter of 2010.
The strong sales volumes for Trio and the strong demand that we are operating -- we are operating with virtually no inventory cushion.
The benefits of the increased recoveries and increased granulation capacity from LRIP comes at a great time as there is a growing demand both domestically and internationally for our sulfate of potash magnesia product that we market as Trio.
As Dave highlighted the potash market has been stable over the last couple of months.
The average net realized sales price we earned in the third quarter for our potash was $489 per ton and $251 per ton for our Trio.
Harvest in the United States began in earnest in the first half of October and has intensified in recent weeks.
We understand that many of our customers purchased their potash requirements for the fall season during the summer as dealers demonstrated their willingness to build the potash inventory into the fall of 2011.
We also expect that these inventories will be drawn down as farmers prepare their fields for the 2012 crop.
Given the economic returns that farmers should realize this year we expect farmers will apply the necessary potash during the fall application window to maximize yields.
With that I will turn the call back over to Dave to provide some final remarks.
Thanks Kelvin.
The third quarter of 2011 showed that the investments we've made in improving the flexibility of our business are paying off.
As we've highlighted earlier the next couple of quarters for Intrepid will be extremely important for the growth of our business going forward.
The completion of the Langbeinite Recovery Improvement Project and the receipt of the Record of Decision for the HB Solar Solution Mine will put Intrepid on the trajectory of continued success by growing our production with incrementally lower cost ton.
We believe that our ability to effectively fund and execute on our significant capital investments together with the strength we've shown in our marketing and have built into our operations positions us well to benefit from the strong agricultural environment.
We'll now open up the lines for any questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question today comes from Bill Carroll of UBS.
Research Division</strong> How does the increased level of capital spending for the first phase of the HB mine expansion affect future capacity expansion cost there? That is is there a certain amount of upfront in infrastructure spending related to this first phase that won't need to be spent as you further expand the mine in future years? Bill I think what we've described before is that we have increased the amount of our pond capacity is one of the items that we've touch on with regards to HB.
And clearly the cost estimates include the piping the pumps to all areas and we'll have the mill already built.
So I think we've got the appropriate infrastructure certainly looking forward there.
But as we mentioned we really contemplated some of that pond capacity expansion which I think sets up well for us.
Research Division</strong> And in the event that operating cash flow doesn't cover CapEx over the next few quarters how would you expect to finance the shortfall? Would you draw down cash or tap your revolver or a combination of both? And are there any limits on CapEx in your revolver covenants? Certainly it's a fair question.
And I think if you look at the cash balances and investment balances that we have and you look at cash flows that's what we're expecting to utilize to fund the capital investments.
So as we look forward we think that those recover by cash on hand and by cash flows.
And as you know we finalized the updated credit facility that's a $250 million credit facility.
There are very typical financial covenants in there.
But certainly no limitation on capital providing that the financial ratios are adequate which we -- the amount of cushion there is pretty darn significant right now.
The next question comes from Edlain Rodriguez of Lazard Capital Markets.
Dave quick question.
I mean in terms of like the inventories like the dealers' inventories how closely are you monitoring those customers inventories to the extent that you can? And also do you get a sense that they stock in inventories ahead of price increases or just more confident that the end demand is going to be strong? Edlain I'll take that one.
It's Kelvin Feist here.
In terms of inventories we do monitor it with our large customers.
I guess we're just getting into our application season.
So they were very full and we're just starting to see a drawdown on those inventories as we're moving forward here.
I guess from our perspective we are watching these because we're seeing a fair bit of a I'll just call it sideways trade with some of these dealers resellers in the marketplace.
And that inventory needs to go to ground and then we're going to start seeing a replenishment and I guess that's really what we're waiting on here to allow us to move forward here and get closer to our reference pricing that we have on our $560 out of Carlsbad FOB.
Edlain this is Dave as well.
I think what I'd add is we still get -- we're still getting very positive feedback from dealers that they expect this to be a good fall.
So what I would try to take away from our comments is that it's -- we're passing along information and there's still a high level of confidence.
And we're just making sure that you all know what we're seeing out there.
Okay.
And on -- a good question on langbeinite.
I mean production cost went up quite a bit this quarter.
I mean remind us again what cost a big increase? And also should we expect those higher production cost to stay around for the next several quarters or so? Edlain this is Dave.
We touched on it a little bit in our press release and then also in the call here.
We had the scheduled turnaround at the East Mine.
And if you remember all of our langbeinite production comes from the East facility.
So when we're down for a period of weeks at the East Mine we still end up incurring a lot of the cost and actually increased maintenance costs during those turnaround cycles.
The other thing we touched on and I'd ask you to focus on is that we really sold through virtually all of our langbeinite inventory as of the end of the third quarter.
So the 54 000 tons that we sold included quite a bit of standard product at very good prices as the export market has strengthened.
So there's not very much inventory that carries into the future periods.
So we fully expect to be at pretty normal rates again here during the fourth quarter.
And we'll see the benefit of some of the increased recovery from the dense media plant.
So I'd really look back to the first couple of quarters in 2011 and that should be a much more normal type cost of goods sold for the company.
The next question comes from Mark Connelly of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of things.
Obviously the cost with the East maintenance were up a little bit and that's not really much of a big deal and you did point out that they'll trickle through with inventory and all that.
But are the actual cost of productions back down to where there were at this point? I'm sorry Mark what reference point are you comparing against? Research Division</strong> I'm just looking at East before and after the maintenance here are we back down to where we would have been prior to that project on cost? Or is there any escalation in cost? No.
I think any escalation on cost that you see is going to be purely inflationary related.
And we expect to see the ninth mining panel come in during the fourth quarter.
It will be late in the quarter so we'll really start to see that benefit coming through next year.
I think what I would ask people to focus on when you're building your models as Hugh mentioned we still anticipate that our annual cash cost of goods sold for potash will be somewhere in that $170 to $180 range.
The numbers for the first couple of quarters were below that.
We're pretty close to that number net of by-product credit here in the third quarter.
So what that tells you Mark I think like you recognizes that we will have higher cash cost of goods sold in the fourth quarter as some of that inventory moves through the system.
But it's not something that I expect to see on a go-forward basis.
So hopefully that answers your question.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's perfect.
And it answered my second question which was about when that panel was coming in.
So that's perfect.
Just one more question I'm not asking you to forecast prices in Trio but I'm just curious how tight you see that market versus regular potash? Kelvin? Yes I guess Mark there's -- it's very tight.
I guess we as Dave indicated sold down to a very low level lowest in history.
We've got demand from both international and domestic that's extremely strong today.
So we're really working hand to mouth here.
Whatever we produce we're able to sell and so it's much tighter.
I think we've done a great job of creating a demand in some key markets.
And it's -- I guess more of a specialty product that seems to be gaining some traction.
So very popular in today's economics with some of these farmers.
And I think we're going to continue to see that strength as move forward into the fourth quarter and beyond.
The next question comes from Don Carson of Susquehanna Financial Group.
LLLP Research Division</strong> This is Sandy Klugman sitting in for Don.
A couple of quick questions.
One are you finding that your Canadian competitors are acting more aggressively in the domestic market given the significant delta between domestic and offshore potash prices? I mean 2 could you estimate to what extent the drought in the southern plains and flood-related rail disruptions decreased third quarter shipments? Sandy this is Dave I'll start and Kelvin if there are additional items to cover please jump in.
But it's always been a very competitive market.
And I think as you see certain capacities come on with the Canadian producers I would expect to see that competition probably increase throughout the United States.
So I don't know really that there's a whole lot more to add on that front.
And then on -- Kelvin do you want take the second half of that? I'll take the third quarter question and the weather situation.
I guess the way I see it it was more testing our abilities on our transportation and logistics side of things as we increased our footprint it into a I'll call it an expanded geography this last quarter.
I guess it's a small impact on our realized price.
But really it's a weigh average calculation.
So it's not an easy thing to get to a specific number for us.
But I think it's fair to say that we probably expanded our rail freights by $10 in order to a -- compared to our other rail options in order to move that tonnage.
So I mean both Texas and the Missouri River did have some impacts but I guess they're hard to get a specific calculation on them.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And the one piece I will add is that if you look at net realized average net realized sales price we've continued to maintain a very significant advantage overall against our Canadian our North American competitors.
And our estimate is that that's about $75 for the third quarter and that in light of all the items that Kelvin's touched on.
Your next question comes from Vincent Andrews of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Wondering if you can sort of provide a little more insight sort of on the dealer conversations.
I guess maybe in particular what I'm thinking about is just farmers as we get out of this year and looking to next year is there a sense and are dealers telling you that the farmers come in with orders for the spring in December that they would be willing to forward those orders to you? Or do you think dealers will go net short? I mean what is their level of concern here? Thanks for the question Vincent it's Kelvin Feist again.
I think what we've seen in last year maybe it is pretty fresher or a couple of years ago when we had some challenges.
I would say there's fewer dealers that are out there taking a speculative position.
They want to see the demand from the farm gate before they take a real strong position on inventories.
So I would say that there is a closer relationship there.
And so I think so long as the farmers are taking the dealers are very interested in taking.
And I would say that we're going to get through a fall season and we're expecting a decent application fall because we are ahead on our harvest right now.
So it's relatively open and we think there'll be a good plow down in the Corn Belt and et cetera.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
I guess maybe a part of what I'm also asking is sort of are the dealers telling you from their customer perspective that they don't think they're going to get spring orders until the turn of the calendar year? Or do they think the typical tax sheltering activity is going to take place as we got out of the fall? Yes I think most of the guys are focused on the fall today.
We have asked the questions about when the demand for spring and is it there? We believe that it is.
We think that farmers have a reason and a tax reason to purchase.
So I think what we're going to see is a drawdown of inventory a purchase of inventory as farmers come in and actually buy for anything they need for spring.
The next question comes from Joel Jackson of BMO Capital Markets.
I wanted to check for the turnaround at East finished in September or with some carryover into October? No.
Joel all of that was wrapped up in about the third week of September.
So the East plant is back and operating at normal levels at this time.
So you're back at full capacity today? That's accurate.
Yes Joel.
Okay.
Can you maybe review maybe what your turnaround schedules at your various plants for next year? And maybe for 2013 if you can? I can give you a very general sense of that.
It is one of the -- it's an item that we're always looking at.
Historically we've taken anywhere from a week to 2 weeks at each of our West Facility and our East Facility.
They tend to come in either the second or the third quarter.
Our Moab facility if you remember because of the fact that we are not harvesting during the summer that's when the evaporation season is ongoing maintenance just tends to take place over the summer.
It's not necessarily a turnaround-type situation.
And then Wendover has that spread in smaller pieces throughout the year.
So a piece that I think is really important to understand is it's not only turnaround on the maintenance pieces.
But as Hugh highlighted we tied in 2 parts of the Langbeinite Recovery Improvement Project the de-brine area then the fluidize bed dryer.
So those types of activities are occurring.
We'll see a few days of that as well here in the fourth quarter at East as we get the DMF circuit tied in and then the pelletization plant.
But it's an item that we're always looking at Joel I can't give you a specific date and number of days because that will really be based on the needs and the schedule as we lay that out.
But that's -- should be representative.
Okay.
What is a typical time to bring up a new mining panel to full capacity once it's installed? And what is the incremental capacity we'd expect from a new mining panel in general? Let's see.
The way we're operating right now let's use West as an example.
And Hugh certainly jump in here if I don't cover it fully.
West we've gone from 8 mining panels to 9 mining panels.
The time associated with that is getting some of the advanced electrical cabling conveyor system minor shuttle cars in service and from bringing the equipment down the shaft to getting it in service you're probably talking a couple of months.
Hugh? Yes.
Typically 60- to 90-day time period involved there both from the logistical standpoint as well as the construction time of the utilities and training of new crew.
And oftentimes we look at this both as capacity increase directly from that mine or online as well as being able to use it our hoisting capacity more efficiently because we have more panels to draw it from and greater reliability underground.
Right.
I think another piece to add that to Joel is it gives us the capacity to increase some of our development tons which are really preparing areas for future mining and that's one of the things that we're going to take advantage of with some increased underground capacity is trying to increase the ratio of some of our development work.
Okay.
And finally could you review what your current granular capacity is? And what you'll expect that to be at the end of 2012 once Wendover starts coming in? Let's see I'm trying to remember the numbers that we reported on that.
I think we said we're about 75% in terms of granulation capacity.
That will go up to about 80% or so with Wendover coming online.
And then the piece that we'd also ask you to focus on is our expectation is that all of the additional capacity coming on with the mining panel additions through 2011 '12 and '13 at West plus all of the capacity that will come on from HB we'll be able to be processed in the granular with the North compaction project that we announced last month.
Your next question comes from Mark Gulley of Ticonderoga Securities.
Research Division</strong> I want to go back to the marketing side for a second if I may.
Given your -- the geographic mix of markets you sell to is it possible you're a little bit more affected by the drought conditions and that maybe affecting demand pricing and those kinds of dynamics as compared to maybe producers that are a little bit more focus on the central Corn Belt? I'll take the question Mark.
In terms of our geographical mix I think we demonstrated that we are able to have a larger footprint and expand our geographies.
So I guess I don't believe that we're impacted any different than other producers.
Obviously they're selling into all of North America.
And we can do that.
But we're choosing to attempt to maximize our returns and stay closer to home.
And that's what -- that's what our driver is.
But we've demonstrated that we can add geography if necessary.
Research Division</strong> Yes maybe I should have...
Mark this is Dave.
The other...
Research Division</strong> The truck market and then maybe you've benefited from strong local demand previously and that sort of not as good now with the drought conditions nearby.
Fair comment Mark.
And I guess we're going to have to deal with these kind of weather events from time to time and I think we've successfully dealt with them.
But there is an impact there's no doubt about it.
We've enjoyed that a decent truck market over the years specifically last year was very good for us and this year because of the drought we haven't seen near the traffic that typically comes from that region.
I think Mark this is Dave again.
This is really the part of the point of the fact that we've continued even in light of some of the shifting of some of our marketing efforts.
We continue to have that net realized sales price advantage.
So certainly there's potential to get there and it really gives us the geographical advantage we think relative to our competitors.
So I really think that the flexibility of adding granulation capacity at places like Wendover and Moab really allow us to have that region.
And frankly we see customers looking to make sure that they have multiple suppliers and that's just a piece of the market that exists today.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Secondly on the pricing side if I can.
Both you and a large Canadian supplier of potash today both commented that they sort of see flat pricing sequentially in the fourth quarter as compared to the third.
Given the strong crop economics prospects for good fall application all those kinds of positive tailwind I guess I'm a little surprised that you're as cautious as you are with respect to each of the short-term pricing outlook.
And then maybe you can comment on whether or not that changes as we move into the spring.
I guess it's difficult for us to predict too far out on pricing obviously.
I made the comment that we haven't realize the full benefit of our last price increase.
I think as we draw down inventories we're going to get -- we're going to see that move closer to our reference price list.
And I think that will happen in the back end of this next quarter.
Right now there's lots of inventory out there.
And I guess what we're seeing is some of this trading going on that's putting some pressure on pricing.
Research Division</strong> And then finally if I may and maybe we can do this better offline.
The HB Solution mine appears to be your largest single project on a go-forward basis.
Maybe if you could just remind me some of the key parameters of the increase in capacity the on-stream date those kinds of key highlight selling points for that particular project.
Mark this is Dave.
I'm happy to touch on that now.
Just as a reminder the project is going through the environmental impact assessment with the Bureau of Land Management.
That process remains on track and the latest schedule provided to us by the BLM's contractor is that we'll receive the Record of Decision in the first quarter of 2012.
At that point in time we start construction of pond system the injection wells the extraction wells.
We'll start construction of the mill a little bit later in 2012.
And then we anticipate seeing first production at the end of 2013 after the benefit of an evaporation season.
That will be a fairly moderate amount of production that comes online albeit meaningful.
And then we anticipate being at full production benefit which we estimate somewhere anywhere from 150 000 to 200 000 tons a year and our initial estimate are that we'll -- we should be closer to the top end of that range.
And I think the important piece to keep in mind is that the cash operating cost associated with those tons are estimated somewhere in the $70 to $80 per ton range is the information we've been disclosing.
So the margin opportunity associated with those tons the increase in productive capacity by 20% to 25% those are the scale numbers that we have and it makes the capital investment very meaningful.
It has an excellent rate of return associated with it.
And like we said it covers off all the bases of the things that we know are important to us and continue to improve our competitive position.
[Operator Instructions] The next question comes from Ben Isaacson of Scotia Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on the evolution of your sales mix between industrial and agricultural potash.
Can you just give me a reminder in terms of how that mix has changed over the last 5 years and where you think it's going? And what is the margin typically between the 2 segments? Ben this is Dave.
I'll start on it and Kelvin please feel free to add to it.
The mix that we have currently and we'll report in our 10-Q that will come out this afternoon is that 78% of our sales went into the agricultural area 16% went to industrial which is predominantly the oil and gas area and then 6% went into the feed markets.
The feed component remains a very important part of our business and pretty steady and predictable.
So that hasn't necessarily changed.
What we saw a couple of years ago in the 2006 2007 2008 time period when you saw that significant increase in oil and gas pricing was an expansion of the amount of tonnage that we were selling into the oil and gas fields.
Again keep in mind it's for oil and gas drilling fluids and frac fluids.
When you saw the 2000 -- at the end of 2008 2009 period a lot of the oil and gas guys closed down some of their capital program greatly reduced them.
So you saw that percentage shift pretty significantly to the single low teens.
So I think right now we're -- we feel comfortable with where the levels are.
The piece and maybe Kelvin can talk a little bit more about this is the way we're marketing today and the flexibility we have.
And we just go through the math on whether it makes more sense for us to sell a granular ton or a standard ton based on the demand.
And so we've gotten to the point where we have that flexibility and we can make the economic decision based on what the demand is because we can build whichever product we think gives us the best margin.
So Kelvin anything to add to that? Ben I'll just add a couple of things here.
In terms of comparing the 2 markets you're asking the question about the industrial versus our I'll call it our fertilizer market or ag market.
We're really comparing a standard product versus the granular.
But I'll just talk to our reference price.
We're roughly $25 per short ton differential in reference price between the 2 products the standard being the lower price.
The one thing that you have to keep in mind with the industrial is that tends to be longer contracts in that business area or segment.
And so what we're typically doing is looking at 90- or 180-day contracts in the industrial side.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I guess what I can take for that is even in an environment of flat pricing in Q4 it certainly wouldn't be unreasonable to see a slight uptick in pricing just on the industrial side is that correct? Well I think as I mentioned we're moving towards a reference pricing.
So that's fair to say across the board.
The next question comes from Farooq Hamed of Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I just want to spend a little more time on these new panels at East and West.
My understanding of the grades that you have in those mines is kind of somewhere in the range of 8% to 12%.
And I'm just wondering with these new panels are they going to be in that range? And if so kind of where they're going to be at towards the top or the bottom of that range? I just want to get an idea to see how that might impact production and cost for next year? Farooq this is Dave.
I think the piece to keep in mind is that it gives us a lot of flexibility in our underground mining operations.
We certainly anticipate seeing an uptick in our tons mined.
And that will be in a variety of ore grades.
Keep in mind we have the mixed ore body at East and there are elements of the mine that are higher in the Trio or in the langbeinite grade than others.
So to say that it's going to be X number of tons at X grade I think is a little bit of a challenge because we really run our mine plan as a system.
And we know what we're trying to get out.
We're always doing development work.
And like I mentioned earlier we're going to likely see a little bit higher ratio of development tons.
I think you can do a really simple math on it.
And say that we should see approximately a 1/9 increase in the tons mined based on that math.
But you may see it at different grades because of the development activity.
So our goal as you know is to hold the line on our cost piece and then certainly we'll start to see the real benefit of that come through on HB.
So hopefully that gives you a little bit of color around it.
I just -- it's a question that's probably more of a detailed answer than one that has to do with our day-to-day mine planning that we'll be at a level that I don't know that we can get into here on the call? Research Division</strong> Okay.
No that's fair that still helpful.
Just one follow-up as well on HB your cash cost at $70 to $80 per ton.
Can you remind me does that include the compaction cost? Let's see -- we I don't believe we've included compaction cost largely because we've included the price benefit of granular product and the compaction cost in our economics for the North Mine.
The North compaction project pardon me.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So -- but for a kind of operating going forward what do you think on a per ton basis the compaction cost for the HB standard product will be or do you have a range? Let me check here real quick.
We're probably somewhere in that $10 for $20 per ton range Farooq.
The next question comes from Fai Lee of Oldum Brown.
Dave I just want to get your thoughts on the optimal long-term capital structure for the company after the major capital spend requirements are finished.
Interest rates are pretty low and you've always had a pretty conservative balance sheet.
So I'm just wondering how you think about that maybe in the longer term? Sure Farooq -- or sure Fai.
I think we feel pretty good about the balance sheet we have right now.
And I think if you look at the returns on the investments we have having that cash and having the certainty that we can move forward with those capital projects we think is frankly a pretty envious position.
I can certainly appreciate the financial aspect of leverage.
And it's one that I'll let you know we're not afraid to go down that path to some degree.
But having a very solid having a predictable balance sheet frankly allows us to weather situation like -- we might have -- we saw back in 2000 -- the end of 2008 to 2009.
And frankly for the foreseeable future I expect that that you'll see a very strong balance sheet position for the company.
So 2012 will be a year of significant capital investment.
And as we touched on earlier we should expect to see the cash and investment we have in our balance sheet put to use on the capital project.
And keep in mind I think there are a number of projects that come behind that.
So it's just an ongoing assessment of what's the rate of return of the project relative to the capitalization of the company.
There are no further questions at this time.
I'll turn the call back over to David Honeyfield for any closing comments.
We really just like to say thank you to everyone for joining today's call and for making the effort in taking the time to learn more about Intrepid.
Hope you all have a great day and thanks again.
Good morning and welcome to the Intrepid Potash Fourth Quarter and Year End 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind everyone that this conference is being recorded today Thursday February 16 2012 at 8:00 a.m.
Mountain Time.
It is my pleasure to turn the conference over to William Kent Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Kent please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thank you Joe and thank you all for joining us today for our fourth quarter and year end 2011 earnings conference call.
Participants from the company include Bob Jornayvaz Executive Chairman of the Board; David Honeyfield President and Chief Financial Officer; Martin Litt Executive Vice President General Counsel and Secretary; Kelvin Feist Senior Vice President of Marketing and Sales; and John Mansanti Senior Vice President of Operations.
I would like to remind everyone that statements made on this call that are not historical fact or that express a belief expectation or intention including statements about our financial and operational outlook are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the United States securities laws.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance.
A number of assumptions which we believe are reasonable were made in connection with the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements.
The forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ from our expectations.
For more information with respect to the risks uncertainties and other factors which could cause our actual results to differ from our forward-looking statements we direct you to the news release we issued last night and the risk factors and management discussion and analysis of financial conditions and results of operation in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q as filed with the SEC.
All forward-looking-statements are qualified in their entirety by such factors.
Our earnings news release which is posted on our website intrepidpotash.com includes a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures including adjusted net income and adjusted EBITDA both of which will be used on this call.
All references to tons are to short tons of 2 000 pounds.
I'll now turn the call over to Bob Jornayvaz.
Thanks Will and thanks to those joining us today to learn more about Intrepid's achievements in our fourth quarter and year end 2011 results.
Our fourth quarter performance was quite good.
We earned $0.33 per diluted share or net income of $24.9 million and our adjusted EBITDA was $49.2 million.
For the full year 2011 we earned $1.45 per diluted share on 141% increase over 2010.
And our adjusted EBITDA was $211.9 million more than double our 2010 adjusted EBITDA.
This financial performance is impressive and of equal importance are the steps that we have consistently taken each quarter as part of the long-term strategy to grow our production lower our operating costs and ultimately grow our business.
Since we founded Intrepid Potash we've made a serious commitment to reinvest in our business.
We first acquired the Moab Mine over a decade ago and have consistently reinvested our cash flows.
We've worked diligently since acquiring all of our assets to create a culture of innovation and operational discipline necessary to perform as a world-class potash producer.
We continue to invent innovate and commit the capital investment to modernize our previously uninvested facilities.
To that end we have invested nearly $0.5 billion in the business over the last 11 years to enhance the reliability and productivity of our operations.
What is even more impressive is that even with this high level of capital reinvestment we have a debt-free balance sheet with over $176 million of cash and investments on hand at the end of 2011 and the support of a $250 million unsecured line of credit.
Our solid financial health provides us with the ability to execute on our robust capital investment strategy as well as marketing our products with a focus on margin.
In the last couple of years we have executed on a number of transformational capital projects designed to increase our flexibility and create options to meet the needs of our diverse customer base.
We've successfully completed the Moab Compaction Project coming in under budget in late 2010 and it continues to perform very well and is delivering the benefits and marketing flexibility we expected.
We then leveraged this knowledge gained from the project to bring the same level of flexibility to our Wendover operations through the installation of new compaction facility that was completed again under budget at the end of 2011.
During 2012 we plan to expand our compaction capacities even further by beginning construction of our new North compaction facility.
Once this latest project is completed we will have the capability to compact nearly 90% of our current and anticipated potash production.
In late 2011 we achieved an important milestone when we brought on line the Dense Media Separation component of our Langbeinite Recovery Improvement Project as we referred to as LRIP.
As we move through this commissioning stage for this new asset our engineering and operations team continue to improve the process design enhancements and take all the necessary steps to achieve and potentially exceed the improved Trio production rates expected for this project.
We have also made significant progress on the granulation component of this project and anticipate having the LRIP fully operational in the first half of 2012.
The ability to execute on these capital investment projects is a direct result of the focus and resources we have applied to developing an impressive internal engineering technical and operating team.
Completion of the Langbeinite Recovery Improvement Project will continue to move forward our goals of expanding production lowering per ton cost and increasing marketing flexibility.
I can't stress enough how positive the market has been for our Trio production as we continue to sell all we produce as fast as we produce it.
Looking to 2012 the final permitting of the HB Solar Solution Mine appears imminent.
The Bureau of Land Management and EPA review of the project is nearly complete with the publication of the notice of availability of the final EIS in the Federal Register on February 3 2012.
The schedule provided to us by the BLM shows the Record of Decision on the project in the first quarter OF 2012 just around the corner.
The HB project is a game changer for Intrepid.
It will increase our potash production by nearly 25% and these new tons will be among the lowest cost tons produced in North America.
I said before 2011 was a great year for Intrepid.
We deployed nearly 50% more capital than in 2010.
Our production of potash grew by 86 000 tons.
Our average net realized sales price for potash increased by 30% and the cash we generated was reinvested to support our growth strategy.
We enter 2012 with a tremendous sense of optimism.
We have succeeded.
We'll continue to succeed in making substantial investments in the business to deliver value to our stockholders.
I'll now turn call over to Kelvin Feist.
Thank you Bob.
Favorable crop prices for corn soybeans and other commodities continue to offer farmers an opportunity for solid profitability in 2012.
Ultimately the farmer can realize excellent returns on the crop nutrient investments this spring.
Further tight stocks-to-use ratio is translating into higher estimates for corn acreage in 2012 compared to 2011.
We also expect to see an overall increase in productive land across all crops and associated competition for acreage.
All of these fundamental factors should contribute to strong nutrient demand this spring.
The fourth quarter was both rewarding and challenging.
Our strong customer relationships helped our success despite some of the demand deferral that we saw during the latter half of the fourth quarter and into the beginning of 2012.
We are starting to see signs of interest within the system as the spring season approaches.
Last week we attended the TFI conference in San Diego.
The most prevalent theme was a risk-averse retailer taking a guarded stance waiting for new farmers to show interest in crop nutrients.
While this means they are risking supply chain logistics challenges the dealer simply would rather not take a long position on product inventory.
We believe that given the constructive crop economic environment and the overall fundamental is not a question of if farmers will buy rather how much and when.
Assuming current weather conditions hold the Midwest will likely see an earlier-than-normal spring season.
We also believe that the application season will get started in the next few weeks in the Southern Plains.
Texas and Oklahoma should see a marked improvement due to some good rainfall in the last month that has helped to mitigate drought conditions and has improved buyer optimism.
We continue to see good demand in the industrial potash markets and consistent demand in the animal feed business.
The market for all grades of Trio is strong and we expect demand strength to continue as the market is currently undersupplied.
Based on this demand we raised the posted FOB price for granular Trio to $340 per ton on January 30 2012.
With that I will turn the call over to Dave Honeyfield to provide some final remarks.
Thanks Kelvin.
The growth path for production over the next 24 months is significant.
With the completion of the commissioning for the Langbeinite Recovery Improvement Project by mid-year we expect to see an increase in Trio production to an expected annualized productive capacity rate for this facility of 270 000 tons.
Adding to this first production from the HB Solar Solution Mine is expected approximately 8 months after we -- 18 months after we begin construction.
The HB Mine will increase our potash capacity by nearly 25% and significantly reduce our overall cost profile.
These projects will have the net effect of not only increasing production but also reducing our per ton operating cost.
This increases Intrepid's competitiveness in the broader North American market.
If you review our fourth quarter and year end 2011 press release that we posted yesterday afternoon you will notice that we've included the 2012 outlook that highlights where we believe certain operational metrics will be for both the first quarter and for the full year 2012.
Please review this data as it should help folks in their modeling efforts.
In conclusion the fourth quarter of 2011 brought to close another successful year of growing our business and executing on our capital investment program.
As Bob highlighted our capital investments are both beneficial at an operational level and from a competitive perspective.
The capital investment program is a fundamental component of Intrepid's growth strategy and is made achievable because of our strong cash flows and clean balance sheet.
Through our major capital projects we continue to move forward our goals of growing production increasing flexibility and maximizing margin.
2012 will be a significant year for Intrepid with the completion of the Langbeinite Recovery Improvement Project the start of construction of the North compaction facility and the anticipated permitting of the HB Solar Solution Mine.
These are great times at Intrepid and we believe we're on a clear path to growing our business and delivering value to our shareholders.
We'll now open the line for any questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question today is from Mark Connelly of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> It's Kurt in for Mark.
After lagging potash prices for years Trio appears to be more robust than potash last year and going into Q1 as well.
What is driving the relative out-performance? And do you expect Trio to start closing the gap with potash pricing at a more rapid rate going forward? Kurt this is Bob.
When you go back many many years langbeinite used to actually be hot priced a little bit higher than potash.
It's a great product where people need the magnesium and the sulfur.
And as we begin to see the market develop around the world and we really have focused on growing that market customers are seeing the benefit of it.
And it's reflected in the demand and in the price.
So we're producing a product that the market really wants to see.
At the same time we're going to keep pace somewhat with the price of potash however reflecting and expecting the needs of our customers.
So I think we're going to continue to just simply see robust demand.
We're going to see strong and firm pricing.
I don't know that it's going to exceed the price of potash as it did over a decade ago but I do believe that the market is going to remain quite strong as we grow this market around the world and we experience kind of ever-continuing sold-out conditions.
Research Division</strong> Do you think the increased tonnage from the LRIP will disrupt the supply-demand balance at all? No.
In fact we're going to have a hard time meeting the customer demand with the increased production.
I mean we have -- we continue to see that market grow and we've done a great job of growing it both internationally and domestically.
I just can't stress how much we're seeing that market grow.
We're seeing our standard product sell as rapidly as our granular product and we're seeing price strength in our standard significantly above what we used to.
We used to have to discount our standard and we're not having to do that anywhere near to the degree.
In some cases it's on parity.
So that market continues to grow worldwide.
So that's the exciting part.
It's that we're out there growing a market.
We're not by any stretch of the mind buying market share.
The next question is from Bill Carroll of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Assuming approval for the HB project is granted as expected how would you assess the potential risk to completion in terms of technical issues cost overruns and delays? At this point is it largely a civil engineering project? No that's a great way to put it.
This is Bob again.
Let's not forget that we're going to be drilling wells to pump non-potable water into an old potash line.
And so we've got a lot of history and experience drilling wells.
We'll then be pumping that brine that potash-rich brine out of that potash mine into solar evaporation ponds which we operate at both our Moab and our Wendover facilities.
So once again we have a long track record of building and operating solar operation ponds.
We'll take that crystal from that evaporation pond and run it through a flotation plant.
We currently operate 3 flotation plants throughout our facilities throughout our different locations.
So we have a tremendous amount of expertise at operating flotation plants.
So while there are always risks we feel like we have the right team in place to master that and connecting all of those pieces together obviously pipelines.
And once again we've built pipelines.
We've built pipelines under rivers.
We've built pipelines across and through mountains.
So we feel very technically confident on every piece of this project.
Once we have permitting in place which appears to be just around the corner that greenlight enables us to go forward.
So once again I think your characterization of the civil engineering project is the right characterization.
And we feel like we've got the right team in place to pull it off.
Research Division</strong> And if you -- it looks like Trio's cash cost of production after the first quarter at the midpoint of your forecast range are about $115 a ton.
Is that a reasonable run rate beyond 2012? Bill this is Dave.
Yes I think what you're starting to see there is the fact that we're still in the commissioning phase for that project.
But as we talked about it's nearly a doubling of the production rate from the Trio facility and the operating costs are substantially the same.
So I think if you just run through the math you see that those numbers end up coming in pretty close to where you are suggesting.
The next question is from Vincent Andrews of Morgan Stanley.
This is Ted Drangula sitting in for Vincent today.
I guess the question on -- I guess the outlook for potash prices whether it's in the Southwest or across the U.S.
it seems like prices have been able to hold steady.
Would you have -- do you have an outlook of what could affect the market or kind of a baseline view for 2012? This is Bob again.
We see firm agricultural economics.
And so when we look at the variety of crops that we service throughout our entire customer base we see very solid farmer economics.
Now there's no question that we're seeing a bit of a standoff as we've seen before where farmers are waiting to the very end to make their purchase needs and there's no question that certain dealers distributors could see a softening in prices and lower their prices in order to move things sooner.
It's never fun when we see these standoffs.
But the most important thing that we look at is what are the underlying economics underneath the entire variety of crops and the geographic diversity that we serve.
And so from Intrepid standpoint we see significant improvement due to the rainfall in our Texas and Oklahoma and Southern markets.
We're seeing great economics for -- to go to work on head crops.
We're seeing great economics within the corn market.
So -- well prices due to this current standoff if you will could soften.
We're ready for it.
We've done a great job of marketing through the fourth quarter.
And if we do see some softening we don't anticipate anything significant.
So I hope that answers your question.
Yes that's helpful.
I guess as a follow-up I mean it seems to defy logic that you could have another sort of potash holiday that we had a few years ago.
I mean could we been missing something that soil tests are actually higher and that farmers don't need to buy this stuff? And I know you guys are inflated from some of this because of the markets you plant but I guess this is kind of a broader question about the potash market.
Is this just a matter of timing over the next number of weeks or maybe a month or 2? Or is there something else we could be missing? Kelvin I'll let you.
Sure.
Ted maybe I'll just touch on the soil test.
I think if you look across it's very geographical in terms of what's out there in the soil.
What we know is a lot of areas had some significant soil depletion of their K values because they grew a very big vegetative crop and in many areas they had pretty good yields.
So I think the reality is what we see is the farmer is looking to maximize yield.
He's looking to balance his nutrition.
And so he's looking at that soil test but in many cases he needs to apply a similar number that he did for the last year or previous years.
So I guess we anticipate a very similar number to be applied.
And we're getting reports back from some dealers this fall that rates are the same or above historic level.
So that gives us a little bit of a comfort in what they might do this spring.
The next question is from Elaine Yip of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> It seems that based on your guidance you're expecting potash in that to return close to normal levels in 1Q.
And that seems to be more positive outlook than what we're hearing from some of your North American competitors.
I guess how much of your 1Q volumes have you booked already? What gives you confidence that you will kind of reach these normal run rates again? Elaine this is Bob again.
When you talk about potash demand what we're looking at is our natural geographic market.
The market is much much bigger than what we serve.
And so due to the drought that we saw last year in Texas and Oklahoma we've seen rains that -- we virtually had no market whatsoever in Texas and Oklahoma last year.
And so due to changes in the weather in our specific market we're seeing improvements that lead us to believe that our market is going to be firm.
So we're not necessarily speaking to the larger market if you will.
Now as we do kind of our domestic tour we're seeing firmness across the United States.
Whether or not we see as big a market or as firm a demand I think that there's always the potential for the bigger market to see a little bit of a slide in the second quarter but I would stress once again that in our very natural geographic market we're seeing what appears to be the beginning of a pretty firm market.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on your CapEx programs if volumes or prices are weaker than you anticipate how do you anticipate funding your capital projects? Is it simply tapping into that large amount of credit that you have? Or would you look at other ways to raise capital? Elaine this is Dave.
What I'd ask you to look at is -- let's just start with the cash that's on the balance sheet that we have at the end of the year.
What do we have? $176 million.
And then look at the cash flow generation that we're seeing each quarter.
If you look -- I mean that's a pretty significant amount of cash flow.
Our capital forecast for this year is somewhere in that $225 million to $300 million range.
Clearly there's always going to be the timing around permitting and such that may have an influence on that.
That's why we've got the wide range.
But the big projects are -- wrapping up the langbeinite project starting the North compaction project starting the HB project.
We're doing some drilling in Moab.
And we feel like that we'll fund each one of those out of cash and cash flow.
So you should expect to see cash the cash balance come down through the year.
But know that that's what it's being used for for the CapEx projects.
The next question is from Ben Isaacson of Scotiabank.
This is Shawn stepping in for Ben.
A quick question for you on your potash prices.
Your competitors realized an average of a $20 sequential decline in their average North American realized potash price.
And I'm just trying to understand if the $8 increase for you was due to a shift in regional sales to higher net back markets? I was wondering if you could provide some color on that and whether it's consistent in this quarter to date.
Well let me give you a little bit of color and then I'll let Dave and Kelvin address some of the specifics.
One of the things that Intrepid has always been able to focus on because of our location of our facilities is being a little more nimble in the marketplace and trying to meet specific niche pieces of the market as well as moving a substantial baseload as well.
So I would just reiterate that we have a more localized market because of where we are in our ability to service that diverse part of the market.
It has served us well and is reflective in our net realized pricing.
As to any differences I'll let Dave address that real quick and how we see it.
Shawn I'll just remind you that if you look at how we compare to other North American producers our average net realized sales price in the fourth quarter was $97 higher than where they were which I think really reinforces Bob's point as to really the geographic advantage we have.
Like we've touched on I wouldn't be surprised that some of the competitive market forces out there might cause pricing to come down a little bit here in the first quarter relative to the fourth quarter but the point is it's pretty firm.
And that geographic diversity that we have and we serve different crops in different regions in the United States really plays in well to our strength.
And let me go back and just reemphasize because it's very important to understand the importance of the compaction projects that we took on.
Our ability to go back and forth between a compacted product to serve the agricultural markets and a standard product to serve the industrial markets and rightsize our product stream for each of those markets at any given point in time has served us very well.
And we would ask you to continue to watch that difference in the realized price because that's what investing in product flexibility and optionality does for us here at Intrepid.
As we continue to create these great products like Trio as we continue to invest in compaction capacity it gives us market flexibility which allows us to focus on margin.
The next question is from Lindsay Drucker Mann of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you gave the price list for Trio I think as of January.
Can you tell us what the latest price list was for potash? I guess that will be called that.
And also when do you intend to release your next price list? Lindsay this is Dave.
The -- just to reiterate the FOB price for Trio is at $3.40 now.
And that was really driven off of the demand strength that we continue to see in the market.
Our posted price for potash we haven't changed.
So that continues to be at $5.60 FOB Carlsbad.
Clearly you can -- you guys can take a look at Green Markets and see what's happening in the Midwest.
And we will participate in the market in certain places.
But the -- I think the points around where our markets are and the strength of some of those local markets is really the one that I would try to take home here.
Research Division</strong> So based on your historic relationship between your pricing and what you see kind of in Midwest spot areas exist at the spot market how would you think about kind of the short-term negative impact on prices you might see in the first quarter? I think if you go through our previous filings we've said that our net realized price has always been in that kind of 85% to 90% of the posted price and we'll probably be towards the lower end of that.
But I certainly feel like that's still a range that holds true for us given the diverse markets that we take care of.
Yes and Lindsay I don't want you to hear that we're in denial that there's a bit of softness in some of the markets.
But that's how we see it as a bit of softness in some of the markets not necessarily all the markets.
Research Division</strong> Then can you just remind us if you get approval as expected this quarter what's the timeline to -- not the CapEx spending but more importantly just achieving your production targets when should we start seeing fully loaded capabilities start to flow through? Lindsay it's about an 18-month construction cycle.
So right out of the gate we start with the drilling program getting the pipeline done construction of the ponds and then the mill into '13.
We start to see the benefit of first production in the last half of 2013 and that will probably be about 1/4 of what the expected capacity is.
2014 will have the benefit of another year's injection another year's of operation.
We should see production somewhere in that 150 000 to 200 000 ton range during 2014.
And then by 2015 it's really when you see us at where we believe those maximum rates will be which are in excess of 30 000 [ph] tons a year.
The next question is from Joel Jackson of BMO Capital Markets.
I wanted to go back to Trio.
I wanted to know if in the quarter you had a bit of a mix shifted towards international sales of Trio just on pricing and freight cost.
And maybe you could talk about with the added supply you're going to have with Trio starting this year where do you expect to place those tons incrementally domestic versus offshore sales? Joel let me start with kind of the mix of where it's going to go.
The great thing is -- and I don't want to sound too Pollyannaish but we are really seeing the opportunity to put those tons pretty much anywhere we want to with some of the customers and the relationships that we've created.
We've got some very strong customer relationships that we're going to service.
It's almost as though we're on an allocation if you will.
So as we continue to grow our international markets we need to service those and service -- our domestic customers as well.
So I just can't reiterate how strong we're seeing that market around the world as well as in our backyard.
And with that I'll let Kelvin address a little more specificity.
Sure.
Joel I guess what we're seeing going forward is a very similar numbers in terms of the split between domestic and international sales.
It really comes down to an allocation and trying to manage customer expectations the best we can.
So very similar to what we've reported it may trend a little bit towards domestic here maybe a 60-40 split of the volumes.
But traditionally we're slightly less than that but that's sort of our plan and the expectation going forward.
Okay.
And can you also explain -- there is a bit of kick-up in the by-product credits in the quarter versus what you've done in the last 1.5 years.
Maybe a little bit of color on that? Yes.
Joel this is Dave.
I'd kind of ask you to look at that on an average basis.
Most of the by-product credit for us tends to come through in the form of magnesium chloride.
So you can link that somewhat to the winter.
But if you average that out over the course of the year I think we tend to see kind of in that $6 to $8 per ton by-product credit.
Naturally it's probably the right way to look at it.
And what do you think is the floor? You mentioned that you could see some retailers and distributors possibly offer a bit of more softer prices to try to finally get -- some of the farmers have a little more urgency and pick up some of their shipments for the spring.
What would you think is sort of the floor to that softness over the next little while? I know it's a very leading question but I can try.
There's a part of me that would love to say $1 or $2.
But once again I don't want to be Pollyannaish.
I think it's very realistic that we can see $10 $15 if not as much as $20 in softness.
But I think that those are going to be in localized markets.
We're seeing firmness in a lot of our markets.
And so -- but the good news is we are seeing the phone is ringing.
We're seeing people that want to buy potash.
We see this market as being firm in our regions and in our natural market.
So I wouldn't be surprised to see a little softness.
But once again I take people kind of on a world tour of the various products that potash is servicing from sugar to cotton.
We've seen a bit of a falloff in coffee but we look at corn soybeans wheat economics.
And I continue to ask people to really focus around the world when you look at palm oil economics.
Agricultural economics right now are very firm.
And so while we may see a very short-term moderate small very small dip in the price we're seeing good underlying demand worldwide.
Can I follow up to that and maybe ask you to maybe rank the markets that you serve and in terms of where you see the terms of I guess potential price strength down to price softness? Joel once again I'm not going to really rank them but I'll just kind of take you on a tour.
When you look at the Pacific Northwest it's a great strong market right now.
The California market is a very strong market.
We're seeing our Texas and Oklahoma markets come back with the rain that they've had.
I don't think by any stretch the drought has broken but we're seeing good solid firmness in those markets our oil and gas industrial market with the price of oil picking up and the amount of shale plays that are going on.
We're seeing our industrial markets pick up.
We're seeing strength and solidity in our feed market.
And as I've mentioned earlier the compaction allows us to rightsize our products for each of those markets.
And some of those markets change on a quarterly basis.
So that flexibility and optionality had served us quite well.
And as I've stressed over and over it's reflected in our net realized pricing.
So it's not a matter of ranking those markets but it's the opportunity to have access to all of those markets and have access to them on an iterative dynamic real-time basis so that we can supply our customers on an as-needed basis.
[Operator Instructions] The next question is from Farooq Hamed of Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> My question really is just around development of the HB Mine.
So after you get your permitting you're going to start construction.
I'm just wondering do you have all the equipment in place and ready to go to start the construction process? Or are there any long lead time items that you're still waiting for? Farooq this is Dave.
We're certainly doing everything we can to make sure we're prepared for that.
Clearly we're outreaching making agreements and talking to vendors about availability.
We're trying to get contracts less at this point.
So we've got drilling contractors lined up.
We've got pipe manufacturers and labor lined up.
In terms of having contracts in place around the liner and construction all those things are in the queue and in progress right now.
So our sense is we're going to get started straight away as soon as we get the -- what we hope to be a favorable Record of Decision.
I mean at the end of the day it's going to depend on what the Record of Decision says but we're optimistic about that and planning accordingly.
Farooq this is Bob.
I can't stress how ready we are to start on that project.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's good to hear.
I mean that's kind of -- the biggest I think concern is that would there be anything that would delay you that you are in control of if you get that Record of Decision on time.
The next question is on the CapEx estimate...
Let me just answer that empathically no.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's good.
In terms of your CapEx estimate for construction.
when do you think -- or what's the timeline for revisiting and readdressing CapEx estimates? Farooq we'll do that throughout the year.
I think you've seen us keep that number as current as we can in our historical practices.
So really probably the most realistic update will be at the end of the second quarter and we'll have -- we'll know on HB and we'll know -- we should know on North at that point in time.
So those are probably the 2 biggest unknowns in terms of exact timing.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And maybe if I can just switch gears a little bit and just talk about langbeinite for a minute.
So I guess a little bit surprising commentary this quarter around the strength and demand for the standard product -- I think that's a little bit different from what we've heard in past quarters.
That is really the strength and demand has been for the granular product and not so much for the standard product.
I'm just wondering 2 things: One do you see the strength in demand for the standard langbeinite product being sustainable? And two how does that impact your thoughts on an increase in granulation capacity for your langbeinite product? Farooq that's a great question but here's the really really cool part.
It's that our pelletizer will allow us to -- we produce a natural granular.
And what we don't produce as a natural granular product our pelletizer will allow us to compact 100% of the product.
So once again Intrepid will be able to use its newly built plants and design in a way to create maximum marketing flexibility so that we can rightsize the product for the market.
Now I will say that the strength and the growth in the standard areas of the market have been a function of us going out and growing the market and showing the benefit of the product.
So a lot of that product is going to people that are just seeing the benefits of it.
They're liking the product and they're wanting the product.
So the way the plant is designed is we would be able to produce the right amount of standard for the demand.
So we're not going to have that disparity.
We shouldn't see any kind of a significant delta in pricing because we can rightsize our product for the market.
The next question is a follow-up from Ben Isaacson of Scotiabank.
It's Shawn again.
Regarding your Moab drilling I was just wondering if you can give an update on the timing of when the drilling is expected to start.
I think we're originally looking at late 2011.
And if you could give us some color on when we can expect the project benefits to be realized.
Is that still something we can expect to see in 2012? Shawn this is Dave.
We just spud the first well here right at the beginning of the year and it will take us the better part of the year to get that program drilling done.
So I really wouldn't look for too much coming in in 2012.
We've incorporated really as a company as you can see from our outlook numbers what our expectations are around production.
So hopefully that gives you a good sense for it.
But again it's not as if you're going to see this 20% jump coming out of Moab straight away here.
It's going to take us some time.
And then there's always the -- you have to consider the overall mix for the company as well.
There are no more questions at this time.
I'll turn the conference back over to Mr.
David Honeyfield.
Thanks Joe.
We appreciate all the questions and the interest.
And at this time we just like to thank everyone for joining today's call and for making the effort and taking the time to learn more about Intrepid.
Have a great day.
Thanks.
Good morning and welcome to the Intrepid Potash 2012 First Quarter Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind everyone that this conference is being recorded today May 3 2012 at 8 a.m.
Mountain Time.
It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to William Kent Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Kent please go ahead.
Thank you Brock.
Good morning and thank you all for joining us for our first quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
Participants from the company include Bob Jornayvaz Executive Chairman of the Board; David Honeyfield President and Chief Financial Officer; Martin Litt Executive Vice President General Counsel and Secretary; Kelvin Feist Senior Vice President of Marketing and Sales; and John Mansanti Senior Vice President of Operations.
I would like to remind everyone that statements made on this call that are not historical fact or that express a belief expectation or intention including statements about our financial and operational outlook are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the United States securities laws.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance.
A number of assumptions which we believe are reasonable were made in connection with the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements.
The forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ from our expectations.
For more information with respect to risks uncertainties and the other factors which could cause our actual results to differ from our forward-looking statements we direct you to the news release we issued last night and the risk factors and management's discussion and analysis of financial conditions and results of operation in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q as filed with the SEC.
All forward-looking-statements are qualified in their entirety by such factors.
Our earnings news release which is posted on our website at intrepidpotash.com includes a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures including adjusted EBITDA which will be used on this call.
All references to tons are the short tons of 2 000 pounds.
I'll now turn the call over to Bob Jornayvaz.
Thanks Will and thanks to those joining us today to learn more about Intrepid's accomplishments and our first quarter 2012 results.
Our first quarter performance continued to demonstrate the successful execution of our business plan.
We earned $0.27 per diluted share or net income of $20.6 million and our adjusted EBITDA was $44.7 million.
Our balance sheet remained debt-free with $175 million of cash and investments at the end of the first quarter 2012 while deploying $30.8 million towards the execution of our robust capital investment plan.
Our strong customer relationships were an integral part of our success during the first quarter of 2012.
I'm paying close attention to the diverse sales opportunities available to us.
In our regional markets we were able to sell a healthy volume of our various products.
Our marketing ability combined with our geographic advantage and diverse market profile assisted us in remaining competitive in the markets we serve while delivering excellent margins on each ton we produce.
Our consistent financial and marketing performance is an important part of the Intrepid story.
However we are equally proud of the significant progress that we are making on our numerous capital projects which will increase our production.
These projects will improve the flexibility of our operations and help to maximize the margin on each ton produced.
As Intrepid brings on higher volumes of potash at lower costs we expect to continue to expand our margins.
Our margins are already the best in North America.
Others focus on the presentation of their costs.
However we focus on actual margin.
Let me be quite clear.
On average for the past 5 years Intrepid generated more cash to the bottom line on the production and sale of a ton of potash than our North American competitors.
Not to be overly redundant but some talk about lower costs but after costs royalties taxes and higher net back sales prices Intrepid consistently delivers more margin.
We believe margin is the most important aspect of the business.
Our 5-year track record of generating the highest margin is not an aberration or a fluke it is simply value creation.
The approval of the HB Solar Solution Mine and the start of construction in March is a major milestone for Intrepid.
Many of you on the call today have listened patiently over the last 3 years as we have described our navigation of the permitting and Environmental Impact Statement process and the deliberate steps we have undertaken to keep the project moving forward.
I'm extremely pleased that the time and effort that our people have invested in working closely with local state and federal agencies as well as the local community has brought the process to a successful outcome and strengthened the relationships we have with each of the groups involved in the process.
Upon receiving the Record of Decision in late March we immediately began construction of the HB Solar Solution Mine project utilizing the detailed plan we had assembled during the summer of 2011.
First production from HB is expected in late 2013 ramping into 2014 and reaching full production in 2015.
The HB Mine is expected to increase our potash production by approximately 25% and allows us to continue to capitalize on our solution mining and solar evaporation expertise.
Beyond the increased production volumes of potash which should not be overlooked is the impact that the HB Mine will have on our overall cost profile.
The HB Mine will be one of the lowest-cost potash mines in North America and will enable us to  further earn a greater margin on each ton we sell.
In coordination with the HB approval we have also received the necessary permits for our North Compaction Project and have commenced construction activities during the second quarter of 2012.
This facility is designed and the timing is structured to increase the capacity of the North plant to handle all of the anticipated increased production from the HB Solar Solution Mine as well as the planned expansions from our West Facility.
The North Compaction Project will enable Intrepid to deliver to our agricultural customers an even higher-quality granular product while at the same time improving our operating efficiency.
The Langbeinite Recovery Project or LRIP is another important capital investment and project that we have made significant project -- progress on commissioning during the first quarter.
More specifically we continue to work on commissioning the Dense Media Separation component and we also recently began initial commissioning activities on the granulation component of the plant.
The LRIP grows our production through the use of an enhanced recovery production method and is designed to provide the ability to produce 100% of our product in granular form.
This optionality is an important part of our margin-based approach to the business and will allow us to not only better serve the undersupplied Trio market but have the opportunity to evaluate the margins we can earn in different markets and produce the product in the most beneficial form.
Please remember that our East plant has been operating through major construction and redesign for the past 2 years.
We're attempting to transform this facility and it is happening.
To be very clear the best is yet to come for Intrepid and we look forward to sharing our continued success to our stockholders.
Kelvin Feist will take the call from here and provide you with a brief market update.
Thank you Bob.
We witnessed very profitable and stable cash crop prices through the quarter albeit with volatile futures market.
The current market condition strongly incent farmers to apply the necessary nutrients to maximize the return on their crop investment.
However it is also positive for them to be somewhat cautious in their buying decisions.
Fieldwork in the key corn growing regions continues to progress earlier than normal.
Indications from our dealers point to near-normal potash application rates through the spring season.
The first quarter got off to a slow start from  a sales perspective but improved in March due to unseasonably warm weather and increased farmer activity in a number of our end markets.
On our last call we said that we thought farmers would buy potash for spring but the only question remaining when and how much.
Farmers have applied product through the winter and into the spring due to minimal snow accumulation and warmer weather pulling down the inventory held by dealers.
The level of farmer purchasing however is becoming more difficult to quantify as dealer storage capacity is increasing rapidly.
Dealers continue to work through inventory and will likely take a cautious approach to potash purchasing in the near-term not unlike the cautiousness that consumers and businesses are demonstrating worldwide in the current economic environment.
These purchasing behaviors bear a lot of similarities to the spring of 2010 in terms of dealer mindset.
If you'll recall in 2010 dealers finished the spring season with empty bins and were challenged to meet farmers' fall needs that year when demand was very strong.
Demand in the industrial potash markets and animal feed businesses continue to be very good and outpace our temporary limited production at our East facility.
Price in these markets remains firm.
We are continuing to focus on responding to our customers' needs with the right product at the right time within our product offerings.
Flexibility is one of our core strengths allowing us to maximize the sales opportunities and returns available in our geographically diverse markets.
As stated on previous calls demand remains stronger than supply for all grades of Trio and we expect demand to be strong for the remainder of 2012.
The sequential $15 improvement in net realized sales price for Trio to $302 per ton in the first quarter of 2012 reflects realization of a price increase we implemented in the late January 2012.
We also continue to hear from our customers that there's a growing recognition of the agronomic value of the sulfate and magnesium in our Trio which is helping drive the demand for this product.
With that I will turn the call over to Dave Honeyfield to provide some final remarks.
Thanks Kelvin.
Our ability to execute on capital projects becomes increasingly evident with each passing day.
We've talked a lot over the last few years about major capital projects like the LRIP the HB Solar Solution Mine and our compaction project.
The nearing of completion of LRIP's construction and start of construction on the HB Solar Solution Mine demonstrate our ability to permit and construct large-scale complex and very diverse capital projects.
We continue to have many valuable projects ahead of us as shown by our recent activity to expand our existing cavern network and to create a new cavern system in Moab Utah.
Our operating and technical personnel understand that the performance of our mines and plants are key to realizing the value from the investments we have made.
Our people are dedicated to achieving our production potential and delivering the returns that are expected.
This statement is particularly applicable to our East plant the facility we continue to invest in to bring its performance into line with the rest of our operations.
I would ask that people have a balance of patience and confidence that the systematic approach we are taking to update modify and transform the East plant will take some time and it will result in variability in our production rates at East for a number of quarters.
We continue to implement new techniques and technologies to address the complex mineralogy and processes that exist at East.
All of our efforts are geared towards improving recoveries and throughput which in the end will help us continue delivering margin.
Intrepid will look much different from a production perspective 2 years from now.
The LRIP will be the most immediate contributor to this shift.
Based on the financial outlook we published in our press release yesterday afternoon we expect to produce approximately 40% more Trio during 2012 than we did in 2011.
And Trio production should grow even further in 2013.
The HB Solar Solution Mine is expected to increase our production of potash by nearly 20% over the next 2 years and approximately 25% once we have the benefit of full pond and a couple of full evaporation seasons.
These projects will increase our production lower our operating costs make us more competitive and most importantly allow us to serve our customers' needs.
Even with the capital investments we've undertaken we still have many more organic opportunities to grow our business.
We are constantly evaluating the next set of capital projects to create value from our long-lived reserves.
Reserve acceleration is one of the best ways to accomplish this.
Therefore I expect our capital investment dollars going forward will remain focused on increasing our mining and milling capacity to take advantage of our multi-decade reserve portfolio.
In closing during the first quarter of 2012 our adjusted EBITDA of $44.7 million helped fund the significant capital investments we're making to grow the business.
We remain focused on growing our production capacity and decreasing per-ton production costs while also increasing the flexibility of our production mix to support our marketing efforts.
These are very good times at Intrepid and we believe we're on a clear path to growing our business and delivering value to our stockholders.
We'll now open the lines for any questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question today comes from Bill Carroll of UBS.
Research Division</strong> If you achieve the midpoints of your potash volume guidance for the second quarter and for the full year it looks like second-half potash shipments would be up almost 30% versus last year and up about 10% versus your best second half ever in 2007.
So given your comments in the press release about the unpredictability you're seeing in the ag markets currently can you flesh out a bit more how you see the second half unfolding? Kelvin do you want to start on that? Sure I can start.
I guess what we're seeing Bill is the season is very early.
We anticipate at this very good historically strong commodity prices that farmers are going to farm and demand will continue to be strong.
So I think what we're also seeing is the system is largely empty at the dealer level and we expect a very strong toll at some point here in the next 60 to 90 days.
We all see -- Bill thanks for the question this is Bob.
We also see the Canadians needing to supply some of their large international orders that they're beginning to see.
So we're not seeing a tremendous amount of product coming into the United States yet we're also seeing dealers emptying out.
So we wanted to remind people of what 2010 look like and we think it's just going to be a backloaded second half.
The next question comes from Mark Connelly of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
First can you walk us through how much the schedules for LRIP and the Dense Media Separation have actually changed? I'm struggling to align your guidance now with previous guidance and I think it just maybe that my notes aren't that great.
My understanding in November was that you said you would see production by March and now you're saying production will actually be third quarter or do I have that wrong? Mark this is Dave.
I think your notes are probably pretty good notes.
We've certainly seen through a lot of the work that's going on at the East that the commissioning has taken a little bit longer than we would have liked.
We initially thought that some point during the second quarter we'd be at full rates on the LRIP.
We're probably seeing that move more into the early part of the third quarter.
We are going to see some increase from quarter-to-quarter as we continue to move forward and we see better availability as the plant at East.
And like we've touched on we're making a lot of changes at the East facility.
If you think about what's been going on there it's been largely a construction area for the past couple 3 years and change in processes.
We made some pretty significant changes in the plant management here back in the last part of last year.
And we just know that there's going to take a little bit of time to get there.
But please know that there is a very detailed plan to get there that goes through each of the phases of the production cycle.
And we're pretty confident in the numbers that we're putting out that this point but we certainly needed to update them for what we're seeing relative to our plan.
The other thing that I would add to that is that along the way we see opportunities to change other aspects of the plant for example brine recirculation.
And so as we brought LRIP up it showed us other opportunities to change other aspects of the plant.
And so we're trying to really take a very very long-term approach to this plant so that at the end of the day we've taken every opportunity to optimize it and get it working at its best.
So it's a design work in progress.
But I guess the message that we need you to hear is that it is working.
Research Division</strong> Sure that make sense.
If I could just add one more question.
A couple other quarters ago you highlighted the weakness in demand in the Southwestern U.S.
with the drought and everything as having caused the -- a material shift in where your volumes were actually going.
Is that moving back to normal now or should we expect it to move back to normal in this year and will that -- would that be a net positive for your margins? Mark it's Kelvin here.
I'll take that one.
I guess when we look at it we expanded our geographical footprint last year in light of some of the challenges we had in various markets.
We have seen some of that come back.
I don't know what -- that we're fully back to where we want to be there.
We're still seeing some dryness in West Texas in a number of areas.
We're also seeing some very good conditions in areas in East Texas and other regions.
So I think we're most of the way back to getting back to normal on our higher-return markets.
But we'd love to see the whole thing come back and get some more moisture in the West so Texas.
I'd also say we're seeing improvements in our industrial and feed the markets that were also a little weak.
And so once again as we continue to build the various compaction facilities the optionality that we're creating for ourselves has allowed us to rightsize our product stream for the right demand profile.
The next question comes from Joel Jackson of BMO Capital Markets.
In looking at some of your cost guidance that you've changed for LRIP or excuse me for Trio this year and obviously you're in a transition year bringing up LRIP I was wondering have any of your expectations changed now that you're sort of seeing the plant start to commission on what your longer-term cost improvements will be? Joe this is Dave.
No they haven't.
I think the -- Bob touched on it right at the end of the other comment I think the important part to recognize is that all the individual components of LRIP are working.
The DMS is working great.
We're seeing terrific separations of the product.
It's just -- it's putting all the pieces together and we may see a little bit of a deferral there that -- it's probably what your -- that's definitely what you're seeing in the numbers.
But in terms of where we expect those per-unit operating cost to come in I think the numbers that you see out there for the full year start to really show the story that each quarter those numbers are going to get better and better and better.
And our overall expectations have not changed on that front.
Can you describe that deferral in terms of months or quarters? Let's put it on a quarter.
Okay.
Staying on Trio a little bit obviously you're getting a better selling price for Trio in the last couple of quarters relative to your average selling price for potash how much of the incremental relative gains here on Trio is from improved value here on the magnesium sulfur component of Trio versus something else going on? Joel it's Kelvin here.
It's hard to measure the exact number what people place as value on sulfate magnesium.
It really depends on which crop they're applying that product to.
I think what we see is that there really a decoupling of some of the potash pricing that used to be a direct comparison between potash and Trio.
And today we're definitely seeing that differential.
So I think some of it is the tight supply of that material is creating some of that demand and some of it is caused by the sulfate magnesium.
The other thing is we've gone out and worked hard to grow this market.
I mean I'd say that at our biggest frustration is that we've grown the market through showing the benefits of Trio.
And we haven't been able to supply as well as we'd like to this market that we've helped create.
And so the good news there is that we never went out and bought market share we grew a market.
And we're seeing it now that there's very very solid demand for our product.
And as the LRIP project comes up and produces more we expect prices to stay very firm because we've created the demand out there for a very very high-quality product.
One of the things I've noticed in the last few quarters is the SOP over MOP spread in the U.S.
has compressed.
And from your results the difference to potash between potash and Trio has compressed for your benefit.
I mean is there anything at all that we can talk about to show why we've seen these different  performance in these different non-chlorate especially potash fertilizers? Joel this is Dave.
I think Kelvin really hit it on the head there that the market has an awareness of the agronomic value of the magnesium and the sulfate.
You see it used on very high-returns crops like oil palm like sugarcane like citrus.
And when you put those things together with the demand the recognition of the agronomic value the fact that there's more awareness in the market that's why you're starting to see some of those historical relationships like you pointed out turn towards our benefit and we really see that continuing.
The next question comes from Ivan Marcuse of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> If you look at the HB Solar if it comes online in the timeframe that you're expecting in late '13 how would you expect the volume to step up to be in '14 and '15? And then on top of that is there a possibility or expectation that initially maybe it grows the production is above $200 000 just based off of looking at past historical mines in the beginning? Ivan this is David.
What we've described in some of our IR presentations is that we see that initial production coming on really in the fall of 2013.
And the reason that is is that we'll go through with the initial product we have circulating in the mines and then we bring to surface in the ponds.
We'll get that first of evaporation season over the summer of '13.
Then when we move into '14 we should see that production increase to that 150 000- to 200 000-ton range.
And then in '15 once you get the benefit of a couple of full evaporation cycles with ponds that have more product in them that's when we start to expect to see production actually over that 200 000-ton mark.
So it should be a fairly steady ramp-up providing we've got good evaporation seasons and we continue to look at other things we can do out there and just figure out ways to enhance that project even more.
Once again just to remind you we're only flooding about 25% to 30% of the mine with the initial Phase 1 of HB.
And so as we begin to look at this project there are certainly -- there's a lot of room there to keep adding to the flooded area.
The next question comes from Ben Isaacson of Scotiabank.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on the industrial and feed market.
What percentage of your volumes in Q1 was the ag market versus the industrial and feed? And how do you see that playing out over the rest of the year? And then maybe just as a follow-up to that can you talk a little bit about the price delta between the various markets? Ben I'll take that.
It's Kelvin here.
We are right around that 80% on the ag side of the business.
So the industrial feed is the remainder of that.
And it's probably a little bit stronger than that but we've had some challenges at our Carlsbad East facility in supplying all that we wanted to out of there.
And so if we can get back on track we'll probably see a shift upward in some of the non-ag shipments.
In terms of the Delta we're probably seeing a little bit of price pressure on the ag side of the business and some strength with the other 2 or at least flat on the industrial and feed businesses.
So the fact that we're not compacting that the industrial and feed material in terms of the return it's very good on the industrial and feed side.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then maybe just one more question on Trio cash costs.
Last quarter you had talked about 120 to 140.
Now you're looking to 140 to 155.
I understand why your rate's that average.
But do you expect that 2013 you'll be back in that 120 to 140 area? Ben this is Dave.
We really do.
Like I said it's probably about a quarter deferral.
And as we've -- as I look at the kind of quarter-by-quarter progression of that we really anticipate seeing those rates increase to where the design capacity was built.
And the economies of scale that come with that are pretty darn significant.
So like I said [indiscernible] on the core I would really just shift that out a little bit and it should be a pretty representative story going forward.
The next question comes from Don Carson Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP Research Division</strong> A question on your second quarter potash shipment guidance.
I guess I'm having trouble reconciling why the shipments are so weak relative both the first quarter and last year given your positive comments and the obvious comments about the attractiveness to growers of applying potash at $5 plus December corn.
Is this an issue of more import competition that some of your competitors have talked about? By that I mean offshore import competition.
And one of your peers has even talked about how they thought farmers were mining the soil in North America which sounds strange given the high corn prices we're seeing right now.
So what's driving this weak in your term demand outlook that you see? I think it's just -- Don this is Bob.
Thanks for the question and then I'll let Kelvin add a little more color.
We're seeing caution.
I mean -- and we see -- if you look at the difference between the cash markets and corn as compared to the volatility in the futures market if you look at the high diesel costs that we're seeing and basically the volatility on farmers' margins while solid we're still seeing volatility that does create caution.
And so we're also seeing dealers taking their bins down as low as they can without coming back and refilling yet they're talking about how they want to fill back up.
So the good news is is that we're hearing and having those conversations about the needs and demands yet we're also seeing caution which makes a lot of sense when you look at all the outside forces that would create caution.
I mean there's a tremendous amount of volatility in the ag markets today so you just can't ignore that volatility.
We've also seen volatility because of poor USDA reporting.
So there's just a whole litany of events that have occurred that created that futures volatility yet we're seeing extreme strong cash markets.
Don I'll just add to that a little bit it's Kelvin.
We went through a very early spring.
We saw some corn going in the ground in March which is absolutely well very unprecedented.
Typically you'll ship some in the spring and then you'll have a fill season after the end of the spring.
What we're seeing is we believe that the -- our competitors are going to focus on some of the large contracts that they have in the export market.
And I guess we don't expect that we're going to see a fill -- too much fill activity in June.
So I guess it really depends on when that happens will drive whether it's a Q2 number or a Q3 number.
To your point on the declining K values in the soil that's true.
And all this technology with the hybrid season-whatnot is driving higher yields and yet we're not seeing a significant increase on the application rates of potassium.
So we need to see that to continue to achieve higher yield levels in the U.S.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just as a follow-up looking out to as HB comes online where do you anticipate placing that product? Because that's a fair bit of product coming online just assuming your competitors in the North are going to have a lot more capacity they're trying to put into the marketplace as well.
So how do you see the market unfolding in '14 and '15 with this new capacity in North America? Don this is Bob again.
We're working very hard within our natural kind of geographic and regional markets to make sure that we have the opportunity to sell into that diverse market.
A lot of the -- a lot of what makes us -- makes that opportunity available is the compaction that we've built so that we have the ability to rightsize our product stream to take it into the right market.
Let's not forget that this is a 9 million- to 10 million-ton domestic market and we're seeing a very significant market that has the opportunity to absorb the additional tons that we're going to produce.
I mean we work strategically on where those tons are going to go and do a variety of relationships that we're in the process of creating warehousing agreements and warehousing opportunities that we're beginning to participate in.
So we are -- we're looking out forward in terms of how we're going to put those tons into the market in a very thoughtful way.
The next question comes from Ted Drangula of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I guess a couple of follow-ups on what people have covered so far.
I know you mentioned that there's been some pricing pressure in the ag market.
I mean how do you guys look at price realization as we go through may be 2Q end of the second half versus that sort of high-470s number on potash that you had in the 1Q? Is that -- is this something that's will probably going to see prices head down in the near-term or how are you guys looking at that? Well the good news we always try to look out to the international market and see what's going on.
And we're seeing good strength in demand worldwide.
And so I think that that strength and the fact that there's a lot of product now getting shipped to various ports around the world at solid pricing we think is something that we look forward to in terms of keeping the market firm.
Once again we're not having significant and serious price discussion in terms of seeing a significant loosening in the pricing.
We're just seeing people not wanting to tie up working capital and take risk on inventory.
And so I would say that we see firmness to possibly a very very very slight degradation in pricing but we're not seeing anything significant in terms of a very significant slide.
So we think if there's a slide it's going to be counted into a few dollars.
So we're just -- we're not looking forward to anything significant because of the strength we're seeing on the international markets.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess just one follow-up.
I guess more on the  volume and people have already probed on the volume being down for the second quarter sequentially and year-over-year.
Is that -- is there -- are there things going on in the Texas environment other Southwestern environments that are factors for that or maybe production from the East mine that's a factor for that number being lower? Or is it -- is that just generally the way the industry is looking overall from North America that we're going to be in a -- we're going to be in feed-stock pressured situation for the second quarter? Well let me be clear.
Had we had more industrial product to sell we would have sold it.
Unfortunately we were product-constrained at our East facility in terms of having standard available to sell into that market.
So as we continue to look at our non-ag markets we think there are opportunities for that and we're seeing firmness in those markets.
So we look at reduced ton part of it is because we simply didn't produce the ton because of the LRIP commissioning that's ongoing at the East plant.
So we see additional firmness demand and people asking for that product but we didn't really have an opportunity to produce it and then sell it.
So that's why you saw some of the guidance come down as it relates to that.
And Dave you want to add some additional comments? Well I was just going to say Ted I think you actually touched on it as well and we see it in a lot of the research notes that every person that's asked questions on this call has written is that people understand that there is a de-risking at the dealer level and that's really part of the near-term domestic reduction in activity that we expect to see.
I think what's really important is to keep in mind and Kelvin certainly jump in here too is farmers need product in the fall and we're not that far away from it.
The summer fill is really going to be built around gearing up for that replenishment.
And just look back to the fall of 2010 those are pretty darn good period of time And at the same time some of the larger producers out there were having a really a challenging time getting their orders to market on time.
So I think you just have to put it all together and recognize that on an annual basis we don't expect to see too much of a difference.
But the timing of that has become a little bit less predictable.
Yes Ted if I can just add one piece.
I think what we're seeing is the dealer side of the business is adding a significant amount of storage.
We continually hear from various people that there's a unit train spot over here a unit train spot over there.
So there's a lot of build going on in terms of inventory at the field level.
And so the traditional spikes of a spring and fall demand is changing.
And I think now we see more of a spike in the summer fill period and other times of the year after they finish their fall season to be honest.
So farmers don't need the product until they harvest the crop in most areas.
So you're looking at a number of months away.
And I think in whenever you see some volatility in the marketplace they're saying "I'm going to go a little closer to the time when I actually need it and it's a little more hand to mouth." So I think that's the scenario that we're in today.
[Operator Instructions] The next question comes from Lindsay Drucker Mann of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Not to beat a dead horse here but when you initially gave full year guidance I don't think the expectation was that we would have any material dealer bills and we've been in sort of a risk-cost environment and it just feel and I guess you can tell by all the questions like something else fundamental has changed in terms of whether it's farmer application rates are actually a bit lower than we thought heading in or maybe we got more displaced U.S.
product or North American product from offshore tons coming in.
So is there any other color you can add as far as what the delta is versus when you had your full year shipment guidance out a few months ago? You want to start with that one Kelvin? Let me start with the farmer application rates Lindsay.
We've got a lot of feedback from our dealer segment and they're really telling us that in certain areas the rates were off.
In certain areas the rates were up really dependent on if there was more corn acres going to certain areas and et cetera.
But I guess we can't find a significant change in terms of the overall rates.
So we don't see that -- the feedback we're getting from our dealer that's not where we're seeing the challenge.
I think the other piece too that you touched on Kelvin was the growth in in-field storage of the dealers and that was probably a piece that may have been estimated to be a little bit lower than it was Lindsay.
But overall like Kelvin said we continue to hear that on average we're going to see pretty normal application rates.
You're seeing guys continue to plant soybeans.
The economics are very strong on that a little bit later in the planting season.
So I don't think we see anything that's fundamentally different.
I think there is just a recognition that second quarter is probably just going to be a little bit slower than we anticipated.
But we do see the shift that was pointed out earlier into the back-end of the year.
Lindsay the one thing that I would say that is a fundamental difference if you want to go back and look at 10 or 15 years is that when a farmer's buying $100 potash versus $500 potash that's a work -- that's a different working capital decision from a farmer.
So he's not going to lay out that working capital as quickly.
He's going to be more cautious in that approach.
And so if you want to look for a fundamental piece I would say that higher cost of potash does cause a slower buying decision but it doesn't eliminate that buying decision.
It doesn't change that decision.
They also have such strong balance sheets that they've got the ability -- they've had 3 years of record income.
They've got more ability to sit on the sidelines and try to wait and/or negotiate if you will to try to get a better deal.
So we're seeing a very very sophisticated farmer.
We're seeing a farmer that has -- that is strong financially.
We're seeing a farmer that this also cautious.
We're seeing a farmer that has experienced a tremendous amount of volatility this year the difference between cash markets and futures markets.
So when we look at the big picture there's every reason that farmers are still going to apply at approximately the same rates.
So we don't see a fundamental difference but we do see light changes in thinking and behavior in terms of how they purchase.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I guess just on the dealer in-field storage maybe the -- maybe there's been more product just -- that's been sitting out there that was unallocated for us so we do have a little bit of extra inventory relative to what you had thought in that.
That could be one piece of it is that what you're saying in part? Yes Lindsay I think -- it's Kelvin here.
I think you got it.
When you look at inventory today you got to look at more than just the producer inventory.
You got to look at the dealer and reseller level.
You got to look in all those areas and it's more challenging to get the accurate number.
Today producers probably have more inventory than they want to have.
But the other side of it is the dealers have much less or almost empty today.
So you got to look at that balance overall.
And I would say that you're correct in last fall we saw a lot of surge bins or spare bins being filled with potash because the price was moving up rapidly.
So I think if you look at the fill from last year there was probably much more than what -- what a number of the producers thought would be in the system.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then just thinking about your guidance for the back half Bob and some of the things that you mentioned.
Certainly the working capital requirement of $500 potash is not something that we expect to change and the volatility dynamic is not something that we necessarily expect to change and if anything whatever your view maybe if you just look at the futures curve your farmer looking at the curve you're looking at a less favorable profitability scenario for the next crop.
So why would you expect to see a better underlying demand trying to materialize in the back half? Well there's no question that we're seeing a lower-margin opportunity for say December corn but we're still seeing solid margins.
So just because it's not the best margin of all time doesn't mean that farmers aren't going to plant.
We also look at our industrial and our feed markets as we get our East facility working better.
Those are bigger markets that we're able to serve right now.
And so we literally were unable to service all the orders that we had.
So when we combine all of the different products that we see demand for we see every reason to feel like we can make the numbers that we're putting out for the second half.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then just lastly as far as your CapEx guidance is concerned can you just remind us what your liquidity buffer is? And at what point you would consider dialing back on those projects in the event cash flows aren't as strong as you expect them to be this year? Lindsay this is Dave.
The CapEx guidance for this year remains at that $ 225 million to $300 million range.
I don't expect to see us slowing down on that.
With the balance sheet we've got about $175 million in cash and investments.
There's a reason we built that on the balance sheet and that was really to make sure that if we did see some softness on the cash flow side that we could continue to move forward those projects that do exactly what we've described which is to bring on more tons that are lower cost per ton and grow the margins.
So frankly they all make us more competitive.
And that's why they are such important projects for us.
Getting the recorded decision on HB we have the air-quality permit on the North plant that we touched on.
So some of that -- there's a lot of activity going on down in Carlsbad right now around those items.
And then the other piece we touched on was the decision to move forward with an additional well system in our Moab facility.
All this comes on the heels of just wrapping up the compactor project in Wendover that was a very successful project.
So I don't really see us slowing those things down with any change in market conditions.
We also have our credit facility which we're very happy to dip into if we need it.
And so these projects will make us a lower-cost producer and really expand on margin opportunity.
So I can't see us putting on the brakes on any of these projects.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just remind me what the capacity is on that facility? Which one Lindsay.
I'm sorry? Research Division</strong> Sorry the credit facility that you'd be happy to...
The credit facility.
Yes it's an unsecured facility.
That's $250 million size on that.
The next question comes from Edlain Rodriguez of Lazard Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick question on the first quarter.
I mean you're price volume up 4% year-over-year was so much better than your competitors.
I mean those guys reported like a 60% decline in North America.
I mean can you talk about what exactly -- I mean what explain that disconnect? I mean were there like some forward sales made? I mean it couldn't just be that your geographic markets was so much better than they there were so what was going on there? Edlain this is Bob.
Being a smaller producer that's located right in the middle of the market makes a big difference.
And we saw demand in our industrial markets in our feed markets and we saw demand return in our more localized truck markets.
And so that ability to service that geographic diverse market that we talked about is a very real thing.
It was very evident.
The other thing is that we work very hard on establishing very very solid customer relationships and try to service them as best we can.
And so we had strong pricing as you saw in the first quarter so we certainly were not there discounting and trying to buy any market share.
I would just tell you that it's being in a diverse market that has diverse products that has diverse crops and a marketing team that is very very aware of how it needs to take advantage of that diversity and it's reflected in our numbers.
I think it couldn't be more appropriately reflected in the numbers.
And Kelvin do you want to add any color to that? Yes.
No I think just touch on that customer relationships.
We have lots of opportunities that we don't always accept.
So in this case in this quarter we were accepting more of those opportunities and that's the nice thing of having those type of relationships where you get the last look at some of that business that maybe others don't always get.
So being a reliable supplier is another key piece and we've been that to our partners or our customers.
So those are the things those intangibles that make a difference in times when maybe the market's a little bit softer.
This concludes the time allocated for questions on today's conference call.
I'll now turn the conference back over to David Honeyfield for any closing remarks.
Thank you everyone for your questions and for the interest you expressed in Intrepid.
And at this time I think we're wrapped up.
So thanks again and appreciate all your interest.
Have a great rest of the day.
Good morning and welcome to the Intrepid Potash Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind everyone that this conference is being recorded today August 2 2012 at 8 a.m.
Mountain Time.
It is my pleasure to turn the conference over to William Kent Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Kent please go ahead.
Thank you Satchi and thank you all for joining us for our second quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
Participants from the company include Bob Jornayvaz the Executive Chairman of the Board; David Honeyfield the President and Chief Financial Officer; and Kelvin Feist Senior Vice President of Marketing and Sales.
Also in the room with us today are Hugh Harvey Executive Vice Chairman; Martin Litt Executive Vice President General Counsel and Secretary; John Mansanti Senior Vice President of Operations; Brian Frantz Vice President of Finance and Chief Accounting Officer; and Ken Taylor Vice President of Business Development &amp; Research.
During today's call Bob Jornayvaz will recap second quarter results provide highlights on capital projects and talk briefly on corporate strategy.
Kelvin Feist will cover sales and marketing and David Honeyfield will wrap things up with some additional capital investment detail and a high-level review of operations.
I would like to remind everyone that statements made on this call that are not historical fact or that express a belief expectation or intention including statements about our financial and operational outlook are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the United States securities laws.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance.
A number of assumptions which we believe are reasonable were made in connection with the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements.
The forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ from our expectations.
For more information with respect to the risks uncertainties and other factors which could cause our actual results to differ from our forward-looking statements we direct you to the news release which we issued last night and the risk factors and management discussion and analysis of financial conditions and result of operation in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q as filed with the SEC.
All forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by such factors.
Our earnings news release which is posted on our website at intrepidpotash.com includes a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures including adjusted EBITDA which we use on this call.
All references to tons are to short tons of 2 000 pounds.
I'll now turn the call over to Bob Jornayvaz.
Thanks Will and thanks to those joining us today to learn more about Intrepid's second quarter 2012 results and current market trends.
Our second quarter results exceeded our expectations and reflect the strength of our marketing program and the benefits of our investments in the business over the last few years.
We earned $0.25 per diluted share on net income of $19 million and our adjusted EBITDA was $43 million.
Once again we delivered the best margin per ton when compared to the North American potash producers that have already reported building on our long track record of value creation and delivering the highest margins.
Our balance sheet remained debt free with $186 million of cash and investments.
At the end of the quarter we deployed $62 million towards the execution of our robust capital investment plan putting us on pace to invest between $225 million and $300 million this year to grow and enhance our operations.
There are so many great things going on in Intrepid.
Our recent and continued operational success shows that the investments we're making in the business are clearly paying off.
Our West Facility continues to perform well both in the underground and surface operations.
During the quarter we achieved 3 daily hoisting and processing records at this facility.
West has been the focus of a number of debottlenecking and technology investments over the last several years and our return on these investments is being realized as our people execute against our plan.
When I speak about those records I want to make it clear that those facilities have been in operations since 1962 so those milestones in terms of hoisting and processing records are truly achievements.
Our Utah operations continue to perform well as well.
At our Wendover Utah facility we are seeing strong recoveries and increased throughput.
Our Moab Utah mine is expressing a good solid evaporation season and is making significant progress on the addition of 2 multi-well horizontal cavern systems.
These wells are state-of-the-art and will help grow our low-cost solar evaporation production and further our growth strategy and objectives.
Our compaction investments at both Moab and Wendover continue to perform extremely well giving us production flexibility and enhancing our product quality giving us significant opportunities to market that product throughout the entire United States.
Construction of the HB Solar Solution Mine has moved forward rapidly and remains on track for first production by the close of 2013.
Since we last spoke we have cleared and prepared nearly 1 square mile of ground moved almost 600 000 cubic yards of material are nearing completion of the first 18 solar ponds have installed 250 000 square feet of liner just in the last week.
We have begun drilling water brine injection and extraction wells and have fused over 43 miles of HDPE pipe.
Given this pace we expect to start initial brine injection towards the end of the third quarter.
Our North compaction plant made a significant -- made significant progress during the quarter and the project remains on track to be in service in 2013.
250 truckloads of concrete the foundation of the new compaction structure is essentially complete and the steel skeleton for the new compaction building is growing every day.
This project is expected to be completed in time to compact new tons being produced from the HB mill as well as for the expected production increases at our West Mine.
The Langbeinite Recovery Improvement Project has come in on budget and the Dense Media Separation component is working as well and as designed.
Since our last conference call we've seen significant and continuous improvement on the sylvite side of the East plant which is helping to boost the feedstock to the langbeinite plant leading to higher Trio recoveries.
These type of capital investments focused on increasing our productivity and decreasing our per-ton cost remain at the core of our growth strategy.
Given the strategy and the current strength of our balance sheet we thought it prudent to begin to explore business development opportunities in a much more formal fashion.
Along these lines we have created a business development team to develop market opportunities that support our diverse business plan that are a good fit with our capabilities and that grow our business and will continue to add to our margin supremacy.
We plan to approach this initiative as we do with all things at Intrepid with systematic rigorous and deliberate analysis and execution.
Before turning the call over to Kelvin I want to briefly cover the drought situation impacting so many people.
The drought has created significant volatility in all areas of the agricultural economy and has had a dramatic impact on commodity prices.
There's no doubt that the drought has had a devastating effect on many farmers in the U.S..
We do believe however that these weather impacts will create opportunities going forward with farmers around the world likely to increase planted acreage in the next crop year which should drive greater nutrition and consumption around the world.
The drought serves as a powerful reminder of the value of servicing diverse markets with our sales going into not just agriculture but also the industrial and animal feed sectors as well as the benefit of servicing various geographies based on our plant locations.
Our geographic advantage our marketing strategy our production flexibility and our strong customer relationships allow us to continue to deliver strong results.
Kelvin Feist will take the call from here and provide a brief market update.
Thanks Bob.
Intrepid sold 184 000 tons of potash during the quarter which was higher than we had anticipated.
We believe our results are attributable at least in part to incremental potash moving to field in order to supply the larger acreage of corn and soybeans planted in the spring.
In addition we have confirmed that dealers and retailers eventually exited the spring with 0 to minimal potash inventories.
Sales at the end of the second quarter were also supported by an earlier-than-anticipated summer potash fill program which spurred demand.
Even with dealers' increased caution the summer fill has progressed well with good demand for product across all regions.
The fill offerings that have been announced by our North American competitors coupled with the import activity on the river channel however moved potash prices lower by about $20 to $25 per short ton from the levels we saw in the second quarter.
When we stop for a moment and evaluate the overall market we see a solid foundation for our business based on expected stock levels for grain commodity prices nutrient levels in the soil and our acreage expectations for next year.
This huge factor is creating a supportive scenario for potash this fall and into next spring.
Demand in the industrial potash markets and animal feed businesses remained solid in the quarter.
Given the current drilling rig utilization and related contract commitments we expect to see continued stability in the industrial sector.
Transitioning to Trio demand remained strong for all grades and we saw a sequential $20 improvement in net realized sales price to $322 per ton in the second quarter of 2012.
On August 1 we increased our posted granular Trio price to $355 per ton from $340 per ton FOB Carlsbad.
We expect the strong demand and solid pricing to continue due to the current tight market conditions for this specialty product and a growing recognition of its agronomic value.
With that I will turn the call over to Dave Honeyfield to provide some final remarks.
Thanks Kelvin.
On balance things are going quite well at our facilities and the execution of our capital project plan remained on track and on budget.
We successfully showcased the diligence of our technical operational and supervisory staff and we remain committed as an organization to deliver strong returns on invested capital and to lower our overall production costs.
As Bob highlighted the HB Solar Solution Mine is moving full speed ahead on schedule with a number of activity surrounding the project occurring simultaneously.
We expect to begin injecting brine into the mine working sometime in September of this year.
What is often overlooked is that the brine being injected is expected to be delivered from non-potable groundwater making productive use of this otherwise non-valued resource.
The project remained on budget with about $61 million invested thus far of an expected total investment of $200 million to $230 million.
The North compaction project is also moving along very well.
This project is on budget and on schedule with $17 million of the expected $95 million to $100 million budget that's been invested as of the end of the second quarter.
Another capital investment highlight during the second quarter is the drilling of the first 2 new horizontal wells that will be part of a brand-new multi-well cavern system in Moab Utah complementing the existing network of wells that we've drilled since we acquired the facility.
This is a great development for the Moab operation that confirms our ability to successfully replicate and grow the production -- our Moab production base using advanced drilling techniques for solution mining.
During the quarter we substantially completed the commissioning of the Dense Media Separation component of our LRIP and the construction of the premium Trio granulation component of the plant.
We have performed some limited testing on the granulation facility and the results are quite favorable.
As we begin to produce larger quantities of Trio product we'll be ramping up production of premium Trio in anticipation of the spring 2013 demand.
We continue to implement the long-term improvement plan at the East surface facility which we first highlighted last quarter.
We are seeing steady and incremental progress from our work under this plan with production levels at East during the second quarter being sequentially higher than in the first quarter of 2012.
The improvement plan is a well-designed and documented process which we're committed to move forward in a very deliberate manner.
We expect plan execution to continue through the remainder of 2012 and into early 2013.
As we've stated before people should expect variability of production results at our East Facility as we work through the improvement plan.
More specifically the plan may impact our production levels for potash and Trio and cause some variability in our cash cost of goods sold.
Before I wrap up I also want to highlight the success that our operations team has had remaining focused on managing costs.
In the face of some real operational challenges sometimes people lose focus on cost management.
Well we didn't take our eye off the ball.
And as a result our cash cost of goods sold is tracking both on a quarter and a year-to-date basis and we expect to finish 2012 in the $175 to $190 per ton range which is slightly lower than the range we set out at the beginning of the year.
In closing during the second quarter of 2012 we continued to make significant investments that will grow our production lower our overall cash cost per ton and increase our marketing flexibility.
Our results reflect the ability to meet the needs of our customers in a dynamic agricultural market.
We remain confident in the direction of the business and we look forward to sharing with you our continued success.
We'll now open the lines for any questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question is from Edlain Rodriguez of Lazard Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> A quick question.
I just had a question on langbeinite.
Like what exactly are the operational issues going on there? And when do you expect those issues to be resolved? And once everything is resolved like how much of langbeinite can you expect to sell and produce let's say in 2013? Do you want to start Bob? Edlain thanks for the question.
I think what's really important to appreciate about the langbeinite facility is that that's part of the overall East plant.
And what the East plant really generates or what the sylvite plant at East really generates are 2 things: one is potash and one is feedstock for the lang production.
And that goes into the new LRIP and into the pellet plant.
So when we started to describe some of the challenges at the East that has had an effect on our ability to produce Trio because we haven't been able to deliver quite as much feedstock.
So what I think is really important to take away is that the capital investment for the DMS plant -- the DMS is working just like we had expected it to.
We're seeing the pellet plant produce very good premium Trio product.
So really it's part of that overall East improvement plan that we're talking about.
So we'll see -- continue to see progress through -- into 2012 here and then into 2013.
What we're expecting -- if you look in our Qs and Ks what you'll see is that our -- we believe our productive capacity out of that facility is 270 000 tons of Trio and there's no reason why we don't expect to get there.
So I think if you look forward into next year those are the levels that we're planning on those are the levels that the marketing program is being built around.
And so we're pretty confident that we're going to get there.
And keep in mind that's about a 50% uptick over where we're at on our annual run rate for this year.
So a pretty meaningful step toward.
Edlain this is Bob.
Thanks for the question.
Once again at the East plant we're producing from a mixed ore body so that the ore has the potash and langbeinite encompassed in the ore.
And as well as producing for that mixed ore body we're also producing from a sylvite-only ore body as well that tends ore zone.
And so when those -- when that increased throughput -- because we've done substantial work over the last few years on the underground and underground is now hoisting at very significant higher rates than it used to.
As that higher underground throughput begin to come through the old East plant as we then had it on the new langbeinite facility we realized that we needed to just take a step back and update the crystallizers the boilers and all of the middle part of that processing plant that captures the potash.
And so we've been undergoing significant changes to the crystallizers the boilers et cetera.
We've also changed everything from being basically a manually operated plant to a very sophisticated process control plant so that that plant is now much more with -- With a digital system.
A digital control system.
And so we totally modernized that plant and rebuilt that plant both on the potash side and on the langbeinite side.
Well along with that you have to upgrade the personnel that are used to operating a kind of a hand-driven or mechanical system to a thoroughly automated system.
And so all of the changes we've been making and improving and upgrading as we're going along.
So on top of the fact that we're dealing with a complex mineralogy coming from a complex ore zone we've totally revamped the plant both in terms of -- I'm giving you a very long answer and rarely do we go into the weeds operationally but I want you to get a feel for the magnitude of the changes that we've done as well as on the changes that we've made to the langbeinite side from the original langbeinite facility that Hugh and I built back in 2005.
So I just wanted to give you a little extra color that there is a lot of detail to it there's a lot of engineering that's a lot of technical aspects.
There's been a lot of personnel changes to go from sort of an old-school style of management to a new state-of-the-art digital control management system.
So hopefully that gives you just a little more color and a little more feel for what we've done.
Research Division</strong> No that was really helpful.
Another question on potash.
Essentially in terms of what's going on in the Midwest right now with the drought conditions what's your take of the debate going on right now in terms of the residual potash and phosphate in the soil and what farmers might end up doing for next year? I mean I'm just trying to get your thought on where you think this is going.
Edlain I'll take that one.
It's Kelvin here.
We've been watching it pretty close and getting feedback from a lot of our customers trying to understand it better as well.
I think it's pretty early to tell exactly what the impacts are.
Every region is a little bit different.
But I think the reality is every farmer is taking a different approach to his land.
Some of them are plowing it under early on others are feeding cattle some are creating [indiscernible] with that material.
So every different system removes different amounts of nutrients.
I think the reality is we're seeing strong demand and a belief that next year is going to be an excellent year and that the nutrient levels in the soil are not significantly -- or there's going to be a significant removal and not a significant decrease in the amount of volume or demand for this fall or into next spring.
The next question is from Vincent Andrews of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> You guys referenced imports coming into the Gulf and I just want to get a sense of sort of where you think the U.S.
market is.
I know you said dealers ended empty and the summer fill is proceeding well.
But what level of competition do you think we should expect in the Gulf in the fall? And if you combine that with sort of your conversations with dealers and their expectations with how they want to leave the fall where -- when do you think we're going to get inventory levels sort of back to normal at the dealer? And is what's happening in the Gulf posing a risk to that I guess is the question.
I think that what's happening in the Gulf is just -- it's anomalous.
And it's out there but it's not that significant.
I think that we feel very comfortable with the guidance that we've put out there in terms of our abilities and what we think we're going to achieve.
When you look at the overall market you've just got to look at it in different spots.
There's going to be farmers that are going to have incredibly banner years and then farmers as Kelvin touched on have different attitudes.
We're seeing the occasional barge come into the United States.
It is disruptive.
But it is what it is.
It's not as big as we've seen in years past.
So I don't know if I'm answering your question.
We -- it's out there.
It's having an impact.
I think a couple of the -- our North American competitors probably started off the summer before the drought was really fully known a little more aggressive.
And so we've seen some of that aggressiveness tail off some because people believe we're seeing it is that we're going to see growth in the potash markets worldwide kicking in a pretty dramatic fashion.
I mean let's just face it at these corn prices people are going to be going to corn wheat and beans all over the world and we're now seeing the rumblings and the feelings of that happening.
I mean we could -- it's just happening as we speak right now.
So I think our core markets in the United States are going to remain just fine.
When we look at Texas Texas has had substantial amounts of rain.
Same in certain parts of Oklahoma.
So we're seeing in our core markets things are going to be just fine.
I don't -- Vince I don't know if I'm answering you.
Research Division</strong> Yes no that's good.
I mean maybe just as a follow-up to that one of the -- maybe you can help us sort of -- obviously one of the debates that's out there right now is whether application rates go down next year because there's P and K left in the soil.
But my view remains that there was so much de-loading this year at the dealer level and at the farmer level that even if applications went down slightly because the de-load was probably 20%-plus shipments have to be up next year.
It sounds like you would agree with that.
I'm just wondering if you have a sense of -- or when you think we'll have a sense of how much reloading will take place.
Maybe I'll take a run on that one Vincent.
It's Kelvin here.
You talked about normal inventory levels and getting back to normal.
And I think what we're seeing is some significant change at the retail level.
And you're seeing these bigger IPNI numbers in terms of inventory.
I think the reality is a bit of a shift a de-risk from the retailer or dealer.
And so there's a lot more inventory that the producer owns at I'll call it the retail level.
So you really got to take into account the retail and producer inventories when you're looking at that.
And all of us are -- had a pretty good summer fill and in my view we certainly did.
I think that's part and parcel of what we're seeing in terms of the commodity price and the willingness to grow a significant crop next year.
So -- but we're pretty confident that because guys were empty the big fill and an expectation that we're going to get some rainfall here this fall and actually get a plow down season in the Midwest should be very favorable to us.
Research Division</strong> And just as a last thought we're you saying Kelvin that you think that sort of there's been a structural shift in the sort of inventory dynamics in the channel whereby the manufacturer is going to wind up holding on to more inventory than say in the past as we move even into the peaks of the season? I think Vince I guess we would characterize it instead of a structural shift in this specific industry we're seeing that in terms of risk management across all industries across the world.
And so a very consistent theme has been that farmer is no different than any other person in business around the world.
And we're seeing that people have found ways to mitigate and manage risk and try to put risk off whether you're in the automobile distribution business or whether you're in the fertilizer distribution business.
And so I think that's what we're seeing in the short term.
The other thing that I wanted to add is that we've gone back and looked at previous drought years and what did potash application rates look like after say the drought of '88.
And we don't see any significant cutbacks.
In fact we saw slightly increased levels.
So we're just not that -- we're not that concerned about where we are.
I think the more important part is the fact that commodity prices are extremely strong and that's what's going to drive kind of the world consumption which always seems to have a dramatic effect on our own backyard.
The next question is from Joel Jackson of BMO Capital Markets.
Maybe talking about some of the things going on at East.
And would you expect your potash production levels and your cost levels in 2013 to be similar to 2012? Joe this is Dave.
And John don't hesitate to jump in here if there's something else you'd like to add.
Yes on the potash side specifically you're going to see as a blend that there's a couple of things that we really have coming on in 2013 Joel that we expect to see potash production levels at East being higher as we get more tons processed through the facility as all the bits and pieces that Bob described get upgraded and fully implemented.
And like I mentioned the guys have done just a great job of managing the overall cost side of the equation.
Don't forget we're going to see the HB tons that are expected to come on in the latter part of 2013.
We expect to see the greater capacity at the North compaction facility which will allow us to process a little bit higher rate for the tons that are coming out of West.
And we'll start to see a little bit of the benefit of the well system from Moab.
So my expectation is that when you look at that range that I described on the cash cost of goods sold that you'll see a lower number in 2013.
I think similarly on the Trio side you're going to see that number go down on a per-ton basis each quarter on the cash cost per ton side on Trio as we get all the changes that -- in place and updated.
And if you look back to maybe the very beginning of the year that still is our view of where those Trio costs are going to get to once that facility is -- the East facility is running and hitting on all cylinders.
Okay.
Now with pricing moving down in the last little while after summer fill here so what are your views here on sort of short-term price development? Do you expect prices to stay kind of flattish? Do you think prices will come down a little bit with some higher competition on the river from ICL and BBC? And then I guess longer term in terms of price development and also cost development '13 and '14 assuming sort of flattish prices as you have more ability for granular here how should we think about '13 and '14 prices and costs? And would the incremental -- increments to both of those kind of balance out? Well let me start on -- sorry this is Bob on the short-term piece.
I think people made price movements and I'd say our North American competitors made price movements prior to how much we knew about the severity of the drought.
So there were things that occurred that were prior to kind of knowing where we were in overall commodity pricing.
But some of the -- that downward take that we saw was unfortunately I think pretty mature given where we're seeing commodity prices today.
I would say that we're seeing a firmness from what occurred.
I don't see us going down much further just given the discussions that we're having and the needs that are out there.
So I think in my very humble opinion the worst is behind us is due to price decrease.
As to going out farther into '13 and '14 I don't want to hazard any guesses as to pricing other than to say we're going to see very very robust agricultural activity all around the world which is going to have a positive impact on demand for potash.
And we're seeing that just literally at every level that we're talking to that that is truly the discussion whether it's in Russia whether it's going -- in Australia whether what we're seeing happening in China.
India is really wrestling with what they need to do and I think India at some point will come to the table.
So we're just setting the stage for what should be a very very good 2013.
On the cost side I'll let Dave address that.
Yes.
And I think actually on a -- I think you really need to incorporate Bob's comments with looking at our results relative to the other potash producers as well.
And once again this quarter our net realized sales price was significantly higher than the folks that have already reported and we've earned more margin per ton.
So we try to help people understand and to see with some of our investor presentations and such that's been a very consistent theme for us and we've continued that.
And so we tend to see that relationship stay regardless of what's happening on the price side regardless on what's happening on the operational side because we're -- we have that flexibility of our markets and we can manage around it right? I think if you add the comments that I described earlier around where we expect to see cash costs on potash and Trio I think that you have to go back to what is Intrepid doing and it's driving incremental growth through lower-cost tons.
And really trying to put those together Joel I think is pretty key to understanding the Intrepid story.
I guess what I was trying to find out a little bit more was not necessarily that guys ask you of what  pricing in '13 and '14.
Let's assume that pricing stays flattish for both standard and granular in '13 and '14.
With your mix shift here potential -- with more compaction capacity and a -- hopefully for a potential for more granular mix here I guess I was kind of wondering assuming flat prices what should we expect in terms of price increases the cost increases as well.
But would it -- would the margin impact be better or flattish? Well I think if you look at what we're trying to do on the cost side in that environment our margins would grow and we'll see growth in that scenario using the assumption that you have that the pricing essentially held flat.
Okay.
Finally on Trio.
Maybe you can -- obviously Trio pricing as a percentage of potash has been increasing the last several quarters.
You've talked about the increasing value for magnesium and sulfur.
I mean is it likely here that as you bring on more Trio capacity over the next little while and possibly there's been some speculation that one of your competitors for langbeinite has had some reduced production is it likely that the premium or actually that the discount of Trio versus potash could increase over the next couple of years? Yes I'll take that one.
It's Kelvin here.
The way we look at it is it's really a unique specialty product the Trio material.
It -- a lot of the material goes on for like sensitive crops that are high-value crops.
So from that perspective I guess we don't really look at them and compare them to closely to exactly where the potash material goes.
We've been successful in moving the price up and haven't seen a significant amount of resistance I guess because of some of the value that our customers are seeing.
And some of that value is in the form of the sulfate material in it and magnesium in it.
I think we've got to keep a close eye on the demand side of that.
And if that one comes into question we'll have to reconsider.
But today we're seeing excellent strength there.
And it is a tight market and I think it's a market that can grow significantly.
So we -- we're looking forward to '13 and having more material to put into the market.
Yes I just can't stress how much larger that market is and our ability to supply it.
We worked really hard agronomically at going out and growing that market and I wish we had more supply because we'd be selling it.
The next question is from Mark Connelly of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> This is Kurt Schoen filling in for Mark.
Can you expand on your rationale in building Trio inventory? In this environment it seems kind of a -- kind of like -- kind of a risky decision.
And did you have any kind of soft or hard confirmation from your customers regarding building inventory to ship larger shipments? Kurt this is Dave.
I think we need to put it all in perspective here.
And when we talk a little about intentionally building inventory what we're seeing are 5 000 and 10 000 tons.
And imagine trying to run a store or run a business where you have one item of inventory sitting on a shelf.
It was just becoming very challenging to manage our customers' needs and to manage our own sales and load-out function when we were essentially selling exactly what we were producing.
So all we've done is build a little bit of stock for the shelves so that frankly we can manage that business better deliver it to our customers when they need it make sure that we build up some inventory on the standard side for some of the larger bulk export orders that frankly we haven't been able to fill.
So it's not a situation where there's a lack of demand or anything along those lines.
I think it's just important to recognize that this is something we really had to do to make sure that we were meeting the needs of our customers and able to run our business in a much more efficient manner.
The other thing to point out is that we have completed -- we've built and completed and have tested our drilling facility for our Trio product to create that premium product.
Well in order to run that brand-new compactor and sell that premium product we have to store an inventory to run through it.
And so that would be the highest-value product.
So once again there are just extremely good very rational reasons why we are "building an inventory " so that we can then make that product and service our customers better and sell it at a higher margin.
I hope you can appreciate all that.
Research Division</strong> Yes sure.
So I mean it was kind of one-quarter thing and we should expect higher inventories going forward from what it sounds like.
Yes we may -- certainly as we go into the end of the fall here like I mentioned before Kurt we're starting to run that premium Trio pelletization plant or granulation plant and we need to -- that's primarily a spring market on that so we may see even a little bit more build on that here into the fall.
But it's all very purposeful and very intentional in terms of making sure that we've got the product there to fulfill the needs that our customers have.
The other thing to point out Kurt is that a lot of our Trio -- I mean this is where I'm really proud of our marketing effort because we are really working with our customers to know and understand their needs and their demands.
A lot of our Trio customers don't have inventory space yet they want to make significant purchases of Trio.
And so we're working with several of our customers to keep inventory on-site and hopefully to begin to turn that into premium product or shipments early into 2013 or late into -- in 2012.
I just want you to really appreciate the degree to which this is a well-managed well-thought-out inventory program.
It's significantly different than managing potash.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then shifting to Moab the new well system.
How much capacity will that add to that mine? Or is it just merely replacing that which is being lost? Kurt this is Dave.
I'm going to start on it real quick.
And John if you can add a little bit of additional color that'd be really great.
Keep in mind what we're doing that is we're expanding our capabilities to grow that Moab production.
And for example up until 2013 we had drilled 13 wells.
In -- up until 2012 we had built 13 wells.
We -- we're going to probably drill 13 to 14 wells this year all told.
Part of those wells are going into the existing cavern system and part of them are new systems.
So in terms of what we're going to see in growth we'll really start to see that in 2013.
And John if you can talk a little bit more maybe about the systems and what we expect to see there.
You bet.
Thanks Dave.
The -- if we look at Moab and where our production comes from historically we produced potash from the old open-mine workings.
And as those resources were depleting we added additional synthetic wells artificial wells in a new zone.
What we are actually doing is doubling that in our sylvite mine.
And as Dave said we had 13 wells before.
We probably have 13 14 different wells this time around.
So we're -- we've actually doubled that.
But what that allows us to do it partially offsets the depletion.
But more importantly it actually expands what we're going to be able to do at Moab.
And we see ourselves being able to produce at a higher level of potash given there's a higher production on really some of our lower-cost tons in the whole company.
So if you look at it from a margin standpoint these are some of the best-margin tons we're going to have in all of the company.
But in effect we're doubling the capacity in the sylvite mine there which part of it is offsetting just the normal P-K of the old wells but another component of it is actually incrementally adding to the production profile of that site.
The next question is from Bill Carroll of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Your CapEx guidance range hasn't changed and it's still relatively wide given that we're 7 months into the year and your main projects remain on track.
Is that range mainly a function of the timing of when money may get spent rather than you building in a cushion for cost inflation cost overruns and the like? It's exactly that Bill.
If you look at the pace of CapEx the fact that we were able to get what was the number $60 million -- $62 million deployed in the second quarter I think is pretty reflective of the pace that we're now on.
And the big 3 projects like we've touched on our HB the North compaction project and Moab and those are all moving at a very very good pace.
So I think if you look towards the mid-point of that range that's simply why we haven't updated that number is we still think that we're -- the mid-point's a really good target for us.
So I don't really expect to see much on the cost inflation side.
Most of the contracts have been less contractors have been lined up and we feel very good about the budgets that we've presented and the fact that we're going to come in right on those budgets.
So I wouldn't worry too much about the cost side of it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And one more if I may do you expect any potential logistics issues in moving product due to lower river levels resulting from the drought? Kelvin do you want to touch on that? Yes Bill I'll take that one.
Yes as you're aware we are a big player on the river.
And so the story goes that there's a lot of people who think there are some issues there but we personally don't see any issues with our logistics.
We typically ship either by truck or by rail out of our facilities whether that be Utah or Carlsbad.
So we're not seeing that.
We're not hearing it from the railroad that there's extra congestion as a result of that and our expectation is that we'll ship as normal through the back half of the year.
The next question is from Adam Schatzker of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to return if I could back to the questions on the East mine.
The first quick question is what would you say will be the capacity factor that you ran for both potash and Trio in the last quarter? John do you have a sense to maybe how to answer that fairly.
As for the...
Capacity factor.
It's the percentage of capacity.
So we were probably at -- probably close to 50% capacity I would think.
Yes that feels about right.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you mentioned a number of things that were changed as the boilers or crystallizers and the automation.
So that we can sort of benchmark this going forward can you just give us a quick highlight of what has been done what have yet to be done on installation? And with respect to personnel how is that coming along? Have you been able to find the people? Or has that been something that was a challenge so we can expect that to linger a bit? Adam let me start with that then I'll let John get into the weeds a little more.
On the personnel front I think we have the absolute best team right team in place that are some newer younger guys that we've -- we acquired from some other mining facilities that were used to working in complex process environments with a digital control system.
So I just couldn't be happier with the people that have started there with us and really started -- brought those groups on in the first and second quarter.
I'm going to let John go into the complete boiler rebuild system in a little more detail to give you some flavor there and then a complete kind of realigning of all of our crystallizer systems because what we realized is we've made so many great changes underground and our ability to hoist significantly more than we had previously ever hoisted in the history of the East Mine to create that increased throughput.
And then what we're doing on the langbeinite system to sort of continuously improve how we recover langbeinite that comes off of the backside of the sylvite plant.
So remember when we hoist this mixed ore material it goes into the sylvite plant first and then it comes out in a brine from the sylvite plant into the langbeinite plant.
And so the sylvite plant has to be running in a very optimized level to get the best recoveries for the langbeinite side.
I think when we first went into this we focused too much time and effort on the langbeinite side.
We didn't realize the benefits and opportunities that we really had to upgrade everything on the sylvite side.
And so I'll let John get a little bit into the weeds on some of that.
Yes to be honest -- so I'm not going to get too far into the weeds.
But the bottom line is that our East plant is a thermal process and it works well at higher temperatures that allows us to differentiate the sylvite from the other mineralogy there.
And so the boilers are a critical component of that.
They're old boilers.
They basically served their purpose and we have a replacement plan that we're working through.
Part of that strategy includes a rental boiler as we manage deliveries and we go forward.
Obviously anything you do that has a combustion source as permit component tied to it.
So we -- we're managing through those pieces of it as well.
That's why some of these things take until 2013.
You've got deliveries you've got permit issues.
And that -- that's pretty much the boiler side.
Our intent is to use a rental boiler and then bring in some new boilers and retire some of the older less efficient boilers that we're using.
And that would give us higher reliability in that part of the plant.
On the crystallizer circuit it's pretty much what Bob said.
I mean those crystallizers have been for a long time too.
Any time you're dealing with a hot chloride environment it's a pretty corrosive environment.
And so there's a little TLC that that part of the plant needs and that sort of program is geared towards.
It's a systematic review of what they need putting plant programs together so we can manage the maintenance and the refurbishment cost.
And that's we're executing on as we go forward.
Yes and I don't want to get too political but I do want to give you a flavor for the fact that we're going to be replacing 3 old boilers with 2 new state-of-the-art very efficient boilers but the permitting process as well as everything down.
And so it's -- we're still living in a permitting environment that is making it very difficult to do things as quickly as those of us that have an entrepreneurial spirit want to get things done.
So I don't want to editorialize too much but I do want people to appreciate that things like that do impact even small potash companies.
LLC Research Division</strong> And where are you what that permitting now? Is that completely behind you? Or is there still stuff left to go? We are in the permitting process as we speak? Adam this is Dave.
I think the other thing that there's always seems to be a silver lining that we find in these is recognizing that that permitting process takes some time.
Frankly we're looking at some alternative ways that may ultimately lower some of our steam requirements through mechanical systems that frankly may end up helping us out even more so on the long run.
So the challenge has made us think harder and we're seeing some real good ideas come out of that.
[Operator Instructions] The next question is from Mark Gulley of Gulley &amp; Associates.
Just want to return to the subject of application rates for the next planting season.
I mean if it looks like corn yields are going to be 20% to 25% below original expectations and soy yields sort of in the 10% below expectation area and I'm going to exclude wheat for the moment here it just seems to me that by the time we get to spring of next year that farmers will simply require that much less P and K and more nitrogen here for the next growing season.
So I mean it's just a question of simple math it seems to me.
Am I missing something? And now...
Yes very much so.
Flipping to application rates I'm not talking about shipments from the potash suppliers.
Yes let's talk about application real quick because it really is a function of what each specific farmer did.
Certain farmers got their corn stocks grown to a certain point at which -- and then they plowed them under.
That doesn't necessarily mean that they replaced all of that potassium back into the soil.
We have -- a lot of farmers that we've talked to they've turned cattle out on their -- on their silage.
And so as you know it's hard to find -- corn is expensive so we have innumerable farmers that we've talked to that have allowed cattle to get turned out on what's left.
So I think the way that you're going about your math is not necessarily the proper way because so many farmers are doing different things with how they're handling and how they're managing their own individual disaster if you will.
So when we go back and we look at application rates in prior droughts we don't see significant drop-offs because we saw similar behaviors.
Also given the insurance programs we're not sure how many farmers are going to try to grow something.
And so there's just -- there's lot of factors at work and I think a very simplistic mathematical approach is not the right way.
I'm going let Kelvin add a little more color to that.
And Mark I think you also have to look at the level of K in the soil from previous.
And we know that there's a lot of acres out there that are getting very close to a critical level or have some type of deficiency.
So we've been really mining the soil of K for a number of years and that's an important component.
And when you're coming into a year where there's another great opportunity in 2013 with the higher commodity prices it really suggests that the farmer is going to have to consider that and look to higher rates to make sure that it's just sort of like an insurance policy where he's applying the appropriate level to get the appropriate or the maximum yield.
So that's the way we view it.
There are some areas that if they are plowing it under we'll see some slight decreases.
But there's also areas when you're taking a vegetative -- add a grain off of that acre they'll actually see a need for more potash then they normally would put on.
So as a whole we don't see a significant change in the level of demand across the U.S.
So that's helpful.
So you're saying that grazing of cattle in silage is removing vegetation but plowing under is not that's obviously going back into soil? Correct.
Okay.
But if they yield is still 25% below that never showed up in whatever growth there was.
So I'm sort of getting confused.
But you're getting yield.
Don't forget that a lot of potassium goes into the stalk not necessarily the kernel.
And so you're trying to put everything into the kernel of corn and you're forgetting the amount of potassium that goes into the stock and the root system.
Okay.
I will follow up later on that.
And then the next question I had had to do with again this issue of application rates.
The industry is certainly trying to talk a lot about this IPNI study.
And it may or may not be accurate but what is the level of awareness out there on the part of farm extension agents farmers consultants that sort of thing? It seems to me even if the data is accurate there's an educational process that will have to occur to make people who matter make different decisions regarding application rates.
Let's start...
Yes I'll take that one Mark.
It's Kelvin.
I think the first thing you have to think about is farmers are astute businessmen that know that they need to apply an appropriate level to get it to maximize their yield.
So these guys are very well educated in many cases and understand soil nutrition and whatnot.
We've added an agronomist to work a little more closely on some of these things.
It's an important piece for us to promote more balanced nutrition.
And I think that's going to be a continued approach on our side to make sure that everybody across all regions is understanding how best to maximize yield because that's going to be a very important component going forward in the next few years.
Okay.
Well it'll be very interesting to see how these application rates actually turn out.
The next question is from Matthew Corn of Barclays.
Just a simple question left on my list.
Looking at your guidance for Trio over the third quarter and for the full year it implies a fairly wide range of possibilities for production and sales in the fourth quarter.
And I'm just wondering is if from what it sounds like the level of demand is very strong pretty consistent so it's not a question on whether the demand will be there.
Is it more a matter of whether or not you can get these new boiler system crystallizers permits? Is that the main detriment to -- that will cause you to be at the lower end? Matthew this is Dave.
I think the -- just knowing that we're going through that process at East I don't -- we just don't want to necessarily set expectations at some very precise level of production because we know there's going to be variability as we work through this plan in a very deliberate way.
So I think you've hit on the point that we're trying to make there.
And I would just look at it almost on a sequential basis in terms of the progress that we're seeing.
And if I look here into July we're seeing a better month than we saw in June; and in June we saw a better month than we saw in May; and in May we saw a better month than we did in April.
So please know that we are making -- every month has been better than the last.
And when you string a few days together you can measure weeks and when you string a few weeks together you can measure months.
And so we're just trying to make sure we help people appreciate kind of how we're thinking about the improvement plan over at East.
Got it.
So really the takeaway is that there's more uncertainty based on the production side and where the system's going to be overall as opposed to the current level of demand and the demand outlook? Yes that's fair.
I don't think the range is really that much wider than what we've typically put out there though on a quarter or an annual basis but maybe a little bit more on the annual side because I think we did expand that a little bit.
But I feel like we're going be solidly again in the middle of those I hope and -- but recognize there's a little unpredictably there.
There are no more questions at this time.
I will now turn the call back over to David Honeyfield for closing remarks.
Like the operator mentioned we don't see any other questions in the queue.
And so at this time we'd like to thank everyone for joining today's call and for making an effort and taking the time to learn more about Intrepid.
Thank you very much.
Goodbye.
Good morning and welcome to the Intrepid Potash Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind everyone that this conference is being recorded today Thursday November 1 at 8:00 a.m.
Mountain Time.
It's my pleasure to turn the conference over to Martin Litt Executive Vice President and General Counsel.
Mr.
Litt please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thank you all for joining us for our third quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
Participants from the company include Bob Jornayvaz Executive Chairman of the Board; David Honeyfield President and Chief Financial Officer; and Kelvin Feist Senior Vice President of Sales and Marketing.
Also in the room with us today are Hugh Harvey Executive Vice Chairman; John Mansanti Senior Vice President of Operations; Brian Frantz Vice President of Finance and Chief Accounting Officer; and Ken Taylor Vice President of Business Development &amp; Research.
During today's call Bob will recap third quarter results provide highlights on capital projects and talk briefly about our corporate strategy.
Kelvin will cover sales and marketing and Dave will wrap things up with some additional capital investment details and an operations review.
I would like to remind everyone that statements made on this call that are not historical fact or that express a belief expectation or intention including statements about our financial and operational outlook are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the United States securities laws.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance.
A number of assumptions which we believe are reasonable were made in connection with the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements.
The forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ from our expectations.
For more information with respect to the risks uncertainties and other factors which could cause our actual results to differ from our forward-looking statements we direct you to the news release we issued last night and the risk factors and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q as filed with the SEC.
All forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by such factors.
Our earnings news release which is posted on our website at intrepidpotash.com includes a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures including adjusted EBITDA which will be used on this call.
All references to tons are to short tons of 2 000 pounds.
I will now turn the call over to Bob Jornayvaz.
Thanks Martin and thanks to those joining us today to learn more about Intrepid's third quarter 2012 results and current market trends.
Before we start I first want to say that our thoughts and prayers and sympathies are with the victims of Hurricane Sandy.
It was a brutal storm and we wish all of you that withstood it all the best.
This quarter our sales volumes of 240 000 tons of potash sold in the third quarter demonstrate the benefits of our marketing strategy in maintaining strong relationships with a broad customer base and capitalizing on the diverse markets and crops we serve.
During the quarter we earned $0.44 per diluted share on net income of $33.3 million and our adjusted EBITDA was $56.3 million.
We once again achieved the highest average per ton cash margin of North American potash producers that have already reported results for the quarter.
Our balance sheet remained debt-free with $146 million of cash and investments as of September 30 and we remain on track to invest $225 million to $300 million of capital in 2012 to grow our business.
As crops are harvested and farmers gain certainty around their crop insurance payments we expect farmers to refocus their attention on the solid economic potential of next year's crop.
The drought conditions across certain areas of the country have resulted in below average crop yields.
The low grain yields have led to tight stocks-to-use ratios which has caused the increase in commodity prices.
These strong grain commodity prices should provide the farmer with a favorable profit outlook for 2013.
This profit potential together with robust acreage adjustments for 2013 supports our very positive outlook for potash consumption.
We expect farmers will ensure there are adequate nutrients in the soil to grow a strong crop in 2013.
More specific to Intrepid let me emphasize a few items.
We are making steady progress at our East Facility through our long-term improvement plan with sequential improvements in potash production over each of the last 2 quarters.
We remain committed to this plan and are dedicating the resources needed to continue to increase production at this facility.
Our West Facility continued its steady reliable production.
And we've had very good performance from our Moab and Wendover facilities.
During the quarter we were also able to secure several new state and federal potash leases within and around our current lease holdings in New Mexico that have been pending for several years.
Acquisition of these strategic leases is a fundamental step in our ongoing growth strategy and now allows us to move to the next stage of creating opportunities for additional low-cost solar solution mining in the area.
Intrepid's ability to recognize and execute on organic growth is one of our core strengths which will continue to create shareholder value.
The construction of the HB Solar Solution Mine has progressed on all fronts.
We have actually completed 2 of operation ponds and have made good progress on an additional 8 of the total 18 ponds.
We have drilled almost all the injection extraction and brine wells necessary for the project.
We have built 72 miles of pipeline.
We've constructed the brine makeup system and the mill construction site has been prepared and mill construction will start any day now.
We began injecting brine into the HB Mine workings in August and are planning to begin filling the evaporation ponds this month.
Assuming everything stays on schedule and the weather cooperates we expect first production from HB in the fourth quarter of 2013.
The construction of our larger and more efficient state-of-the-art compaction plant at our North Facility is moving along quite well.
We anticipate the plant being online in mid-2013 prior to the first tons from the HB Mine and the additional production expected from our West Mine.
In Moab we are making great progress on our new cavern project.
Our team of geologists is using the latest drilling technology to intercept the potash ore within the bedded deposits which will result in increased production going forward.
We're extremely proud of the projects we have completed those that are under construction and even those that are still on the drafting table.
This team is focused on actually building value.
Kelvin Feist will take the call from here and provide you a brief market update.
Thanks Bob.
We sold 249 000 tons of potash during the third quarter at an average net realized sales price of $444 per ton.
This compares to 190 000 tons of potash sold in the third quarter of 2011.
As we discussed on the second quarter call we would exit the spring with minimal potash inventories.
As a result we saw dealers actively purchasing potash through our summer-fill program in anticipation of the fall application season.
Dealer and farmer attitude in North America is relatively positive and the fall season is unfolding as expected suggesting that we will see normal demand in the 2013 crop year.
It is important to keep in mind that we are advantaged by selling all of our potash domestically rather than into the softer international markets.
While the U.S.
market remains strong there's still some volatility as much of the fourth quarter sales are heavily weather-dependent and based on the willingness of dealers to fill potash storage for spring.
Like our competitors we recognize the trend towards lower risk tolerance at the dealer level.
As a result we have been more proactive in securing warehousing and consignment arrangements with our customers.
This strategy has helped enable us to move product closer to the market and will help us to capitalize on more just-in-time sales opportunities.
The healthy diversity within our distribution channels enables us to consistently achieve a net realized sales price advantage over our competitors.
Turning to Trio demand remains strong and we are able to sell every ton we can produce.
The market continues to recognize the value of the specialty product as we have seen the net realized sales price of Trio increase to $336 per ton in the third quarter of 2012 up from $322 last quarter.
I will now turn the call over to Dave Honeyfield for some final remarks.
Thanks Kelvin.
On balance things are going quite well at our facilities and the execution of our capital project plan remains on track and on budget.
As our results for the quarter show our strategy of optimizing production and selling into our backyard markets remains sound and allows us to leverage our business to deliver a higher per ton average cash margin than our North American competitors.
We remain committed to delivering strong returns on invested capital by increasing our production and lowering our overall production costs.
We were able to deliver a cash operating cost of goods sold net of by-product credits of $167 per ton this quarter having built a strong book of business and benefiting from sales from our lower-cost operations.
We remain on track to deliver cash operating cost of goods sold between $175 and $185 per ton for the full year highlighting the benefit of our low-cost solar evaporation production and our operations team's dedication to managing costs across all of our facilities.
Bob touched on it earlier but I want to put numbers around the improvements we have obtained at East.
Our production levels of both potash and Trio at East during the third quarter of 2012 were sequentially higher than the first 2 quarters of the year.
Most significantly potash production from the East Facility increased 23% in the third quarter from the second quarter even with the scheduled maintenance turnaround during this period.
This was on the heels of the 20% improvement we saw from the first quarter to the second quarter this year.
At the East Facility we're taking the right steps we have the right people in place and we expect to see continued improvements in our results over time.
The HB Solar Solution Mine is moving full speed ahead and on track with the key milestones within an aggressive schedule.
The project remains on budget with $99 million invested thus far of an expected total investment of $200 million to $230 million.
The North compaction project is also moving along very well.
This project is on budget and on schedule with $32 million of an expected $95 million to $100 million investment invested as of the end of the third quarter.
The foundation of the new compaction structure is substantially complete steel erection is on schedule and both compactors have already been set in place.
In closing during the third quarter of 2012 we continued to make significant investments that will grow our production lower our overall cash operating cost per ton and increase our marketing flexibility.
Our very strong sales volumes reflect the success of our continued efforts to meet the needs of our customers in a dynamic agricultural market.
We remain confident in the direction of the business and look forward to sharing with you our continued success.
We'll now open the lines for any questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question is from Mark Connelly of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 things.
First you guys may be the only potash producer that doesn't have high inventory right now.
I'm curious if you're worried that that's going to affect your spring fill.
And then the second question is a broader one.
When you look at your current mix of customers how different is it before the Southwestern drought? I guess what I'm trying to figure out is if weather returns to normal in the Corn Belt and is hopefully returning to normal in the Southwest are you going to see a big swing in the geographic mix of your own business? Do you want me to -- why don't I start on that and Kelvin and Bob if you guys can pop in as we need to.
Mark I think on the inventory comment I think you hit on it that we sold about 49 000 tons more than we produced during the third quarter so we didn't have a lot of inventory.
But I think the -- with the plants producing at good levels right now and the demand from our customers being we think to be fairly normal over the upcoming season we really expect to be in good shape to deliver on the results that we put forward there.
I think with regards to the drought in the Southwest that we had really what 2.5 seasons 2 seasons ago? We've seen good activity out of our Texas Oklahoma markets.
And certainly that's helpful.
Kelvin I don't know if you want to add any more to that? Sure.
I think just on the inventory side our belief is that a lot of the inventory that we're seeing on that 5-year average is standard inventory.
I think the granular sales went up pretty well for most folks both in North America and Latin America.
And I guess in terms of summer fill we haven't started any of that yet -- or spring fill excuse me.
We're going to -- we expect to see some demand show up here in the next month or so and we feel like we can cover off any of our customer needs based on what we have today.
On the mix of customers I guess we're hopeful that the Southwest continues to return to normal.
We did see a nice uptick last year and we're hoping that we get some continued moisture down there to allow us to ship closer to our facility in Carlsbad.
Having said that we've got a nice geographical footprint that we're playing in right today and we're pretty comfortable with it.
The next question is from Edlain Rodriguez of Lazard Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick question Bob.
I mean now with the dealers continuing to manage their inventories I mean what can you do I guess like to vary your production or maybe in terms of warehousing in order to adjust to that new normal that we're seeing nowadays? Well I think the key thing is what Kelvin and Dave touched on earlier is if you look at what we've already sold we're managing our inventory through good diverse marketing and sales.
So instead of building inventory we've been able to go out and sell down our tonnage at favorable pricing because of our very diverse marketing and what we think is a pretty sound and solid marketing strategy as is reflected in our numbers.
So we continue to have a very diverse strategy that includes warehousing includes consignment but it also includes a great backyard market that we're selling into and it's clearly reflected in our numbers.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I had another question on pricing.
I mean can you talk about what you're seeing the pricing trend into the fourth quarter compared to the third quarter? I think if we see any weakness in the fourth quarter overall it's going to be very minor when we look at it on a quarter-by-quarter basis.
Research Division</strong> And finally just to remind us.
I mean what's your production capability? I mean let's say if I'm looking into 2013 like how much potash can you produce if you were to -- yes how much potash can you sell if you were to produce -- if you sell everything that you can produce? Edlain this is Dave.
I'd probably take you back to where we opened up 2012.
And if you remember back we had a higher estimate of what our production would be for the year.
I think that that -- you just have to go back and look at it.
And that includes having the East Facility operated at good rates.
And I think that the long-term improvement plan that we've been executing on is going to allow us to do that.
So I expect that we'll see a nice uptick at the East Facility.
We still anticipate seeing some additional tons come in from the HB project that will come in towards the very end of the year.
And then we are continuing to invest in our West Mine as well.
And with the North compaction project anticipated to come online in the mid-part of the year it gives us the capability to compact the additional tonnage that we expect to come through the mills.
So we're still going through that budgeting process right now.
So I don't -- I'm not prepared to give spot on numbers.
But I think the piece to take away is that we've been doing a lot of that necessary work and I think that the capabilities are as strong as they've ever been for us as a company to deliver on an increased production base.
And that's what we're committed to doing.
The next question is from Vincent Andrews of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I just want to reconcile in the press release you guys were talking about how the dealer wants to end the fall season empty.
But then we were just also talking about spring fill.
And so just help me understand the difference between those 2 those 2 comments? Okay.
Maybe I'll start with investments.
It's Kelvin here.
I think what we're seeing is that continued volatility if you will and a risk-averse dealer.
So whenever you got that caution we're seeing the folks kind of making sure that the farmer is going to buy before they make any commitment.
So I guess as we look through we're getting some decent demand in application here for fall.
But then when that ends the bins will be empty again and when will that recharge happen? So I guess we're a little bit tentative on that.
We're not sure exactly how that's going to go.
If you look at it the commodity prices are very strong.
So that drives them to look towards maximizing their production.
But on the flip side you're seeing some supply/demand balance issues more so internationally that's got them scratching their heads.
So they're being very cautious I think going into the next fill season and concerned that there might be some price pressure.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And could you also comment on sort of the level of non-North American producer competition that's entered the market obviously China? And I know there's a difference in the inventory grades and so forth but could you just comment on that? I guess maybe if you can rephrase the question.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
Basically what I'm asking is how much product is coming into the Gulf from non-North American producers and what impact is that having or not having? Okay.
So based on imports I guess I don't have a number of exactly what's come of in here this year.
I would suggest that ourselves and others are competing more vigorously for those tons.
So there's probably on the river more competition than there was 1 year or 2 ago.
But I guess I don't see any -- I think it's a decrease in the imports versus an increase.
The next question is from Michael Hoffman of Wunderlich.
Research Division</strong> Have you gotten any early indications from the soil testing that's been going on where we've had early harvesting and sort of the moisture level indications given we've had rain in the Corn Belt lately? Mike I'll take that one.
It's Kelvin Feist here.
I think there's lots of talk about that here recently and to be honest we haven't seen the impact yet or if there is going to be one.
What we've seen over the past few years is declining K values in the soil.
So what will a drought create? Will that just flatten the number? And I guess that's still a question that remains unanswered to us.
But the trend is that the rates that we're getting feedback on are similar to last year.
So we haven't seen any significant drop in application rates to date.
I think what's important is that the farmer needs to do the soil test make sure that he's applying a balanced nutrition so that the fertilizer isn't the limiting factor on his yield for this next year.
Because there's just so much potential for them to make some decent revenue breaker.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then what message are you conveying to the end market about your level of Trio commitments that you can make as you're working through the LRIP program's ongoing production increases? What level of commitment are you telling the market about production on an annual basis? Michael this is Dave.
Really at this point we're telling people to expect a pretty flat year I think.
And we're continuing to progress through the program at the East mine.
And I think it's important to recognize that we've gone through what I would call more of those fundamental steps on the potash portion of the production plant and beginning to direct additional attention to the Trio portion of the production facility.
So we know that the demand is out there and that the price is very supportive.
And it's all hands on deck to make sure that we're delivering more product and getting up to that capacity level.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then tying that into a comment you made earlier am I correct in this statement that you expect to produce more K more pure potash in '13 than you did in '12? And if I took the mid-point of your most recent guidance say that's 7 95 so you expect to do more than 7 95 in '13 than you did in '12.
That's my expectation at this point for similar reasons I touched on earlier Michael.
And I think that the foundation is there for that.
Like I said we're still going through the final budgeting process here and we'll provide that update in conjunction with our first quarter call.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then just one last one.
Based on the revised data set that we got on the press release if -- and I understand the variable here is the price of the commodity but if the price stayed flat with what your data was in 3Q should we expect earnings to be down sequentially in 4Q? I think you need to take a look at where we're expecting potash sales to be.
And those numbers do project to be a little bit lower than where we came in at third quarter.
But I think in terms of overall margin and such I think all those pieces are pretty well laid out on that Michael.
So hopefully we've given you all the tools to calculate it.
The next question is from Andrew Dunn of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> If we can just go back to the LRIP for a second.
Maybe you guys can give a little more color on kind of what surprised you or what's prevented the results from coming at that project as you expected? And maybe also you could give us an idea of the magnitude of the additional CapEx you're looking at there? I think the magnitude of the additional CapEx is pretty slight is our expectation at this time.
Our overall project for the LRIP including the pellet plant that we brought online in the third quarter was right at $86 million.
The construction work's essentially complete.
We have a very small AFE that's out there right now for less than $1 million.
But I think it is important to note that we told ourselves and we put the plan in place that has us continuing to do some work into early 2013.
So our overall expectation is that it will be a pretty small number.
But there will probably be a little bit of capital that goes along with that.
So hopefully that helps give you a little perspective around it.
I guess I'd like to remind you to go back and look at the potash numbers that we've talked about that the potash production at East was up 20% up from second quarter over first and another 23% from third over second.
And we're seeing gradual and significant improvement on the potash side of that plant.
And our improvements are working and working quite well.
And we've got the same kind of a plan in place on the langbeinite side.
And we have every reason to believe that when we're done that the langbeinite side is going to work as designed.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then kind of touching on that East Facility.
And obviously yes the results have improved there.
Could you give us some idea of what the utilization rates are like there now? And kind of how much farther you have to go there? I think overall plant availability utilization rate of the plant is good throughput is good.
The focus is really around achieving that recovery improvement.
And...
And let me go back and just remind you that we're mining very complex mineralogy.
And the technology that we're using to mine and capture both the potash and langbeinite is unique to this facility in terms of the world.
This is the only plant like it in the world.
And so when we look at availability when we install say a new DMS facility or a new set of screens or something to invent the technologies that we're inventing and then to put them in place requires a bit of trial and error which means you take your plant down to install something new and then you turn it back on and you test it to see how well it worked.
So that whenever you design a new plant that includes lots of new technology that there's not only trial and error but there's the need to actually turn it on and turn it back on again.
And so we just want to keep everyone's perspective appropriate that when you have a brand-new plant that includes brand-new technology mining 2 minerals from the same ore body and trying to capture and maximize both of those minerals it does require a little bit of trial and error.
So we -- it's working.
It's coming along not quite as quickly as we'd originally hoped but it is working.
And we would just ask for your continued patience on that.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Just one last question I'll hop back in line.
You guys made a point of mentioning that there were kind of additional dealer and logistics relationships established.
I'm just curious was there something kind of unique in the quarter? Has there been more of that happening in this last quarter than usual? I'll take that one Andrew.
I guess what we're seeing is there's been a trend towards over time.
And I think that just takes us back to the level of risk that the retail side of the business is taking and they're saying "Look I'm not taking that amount of risk.
You have to fall back somewhat to the producer." So I would say it's been a trend for a period of time.
What we've been seeing is some of our competitors knocking on doors that we traditionally sell to.
And so we've been reacting to that with some warehousing agreements.
The next question is from Bill Carroll of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Can you give some more color around your decision to tap the debt capital markets for funding? It seems you have ample liquidity with your cash on hand and borrowing capacity under your revolver.
So I was just wondering is the decision mainly driven by the low interest rate environment and your desire to perhaps walk in longer-term funding as you look to complete additional phases of the HB Mine? I think it was a lot of different factors that came together at once.
Number one we were at historically low interest rates.
And so the capital markets provided the opportunity to borrow money at historically low rates.
And we were ready willing and able to participate in those markets.
And so I think that's the nature of Intrepid is when opportunity presents itself you're there and ready.
When you go through the long list of projects that we have identified created executed on we still have a long list.
We have a long list of organic projects including additional solar solution mining projects that we want to be able to capitalize on and execute on in a very timely fashion as we continue to identify them acquire the leases on them and turn them from thoughts and ideas into real opportunities.
And I think so that when you look at the combination of the fact that the capital markets have provided the opportunities.
We've been able to secure leases that we've been working on for several years.
We've got lots of ideas that provide additional recovery opportunities additional mining opportunities.
Those 2 came together at the same time.
And once again being prepared we're able to take advantage of that.
So when we look at everything that we're looking at opportunistically and the interest rates that we were able to achieve we just think it was the right decision for Intrepid to maintain a very strong balance sheet that has a very long list of very high [indiscernible] kind of projects.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And one more on CapEx.
Your guidance range for 2012 is still the same.
It's rather wide given that we're 10 months into the year and your main projects remain on track.
So is it still a question of just the function of timing of when the money may get spent rather than cost inflation cost overruns and so forth? Yes Bill.
This is Dave.
We're very confident that we're not seeing any of the cost overrun inflation bits and pieces.
It's -- the breadth of that range -- it's probably a little wider than it needs to be.
But I think that the fair point of it is that there is a lot -- there are a lot of pieces of equipment that is scheduled to be delivered here and in the next couple of months.
If any of that can come forward we'll work to have it come forward.
And we're -- we've got guys out at manufacturer sites trying to make sure they're staying on schedule.
But bits and pieces of that could move by a few weeks.
And it just has a pretty big effect given the size of some of the activity over the next couple of months.
The next question is from Joel Jackson of BMO Capital Markets.
Let me ask a bit of a maybe a weird question.
Is it conceivable is it absurd that at some point in the not-too-distant future a ton of Trio could sell at or around the price of kind of potash on from what you see? Because we've certainly seen Trio price discounts move from about $200 $250 a ton versus potash down to about $100.
What's the thinking on that? And what's a run rate here for what Trio can do? I guess I'm -- Joel this is Bob.
I guess if I'm hearing question properly you're asking if Trio could achieve price parity with potash.
Is that the question? Not price parity but a lot closer to price parity because it seems to be doing that in the last couple of years.
Well we can go back in history and there was a time when Trio or langbeinite actually traded it at premium to potash.
So your question is not that weird or absurd.
It's not one though that we see happening in the near term.
We do see continued very very strong demand for our langbeinite product.
The market is bigger than what we're able to produce right now.
And that's why we're working so diligently to increase our langbeinite production.
But we do foresee continued strength in the price of langbeinite and Trio -- and/or Trio.
So I don't know if that answers your question or not.
I'll let Kelvin add a little color to that.
Yes Joel I think the other side of it is you're seeing the price of sulfates running strong here today.
And obviously there's a lot of sulfate in our material.
There's mag deficiencies showing up in different places so people are putting a value on that as well.
So there's those pieces.
And I think just developing those chloride-sensitive crops which tend to be more high-value allows us to sell and I guess see that step change year on year.
But I guess I don't see price parity between the 2 in the near term.
I think we're pleased with where it's at today and I guess I don't believe that we can sell it at or above potash pricing.
Okay.
And also I just want to reconcile a couple of comments you made earlier in the call.
You indicated that imports on the River are more competitive this year.
But I believe you also indicated there's been a decrease in imports.
I mean are you seeing -- I mean I believe about a year ago we saw a whole bunch of Russian product that was basically sitting out in the River.
How does that compare to what we see now? Yes Joel I think my comments about some more pressure on the River.
I think there's more reaction from the competitors here in North America to reduce or try and block some of those imports that are going a long ways up the River.
So that was the context that I was trying to indicate there.
I guess it remains to be seen how much shows up here.
We don't have obviously any schedule or any understanding of who might bring and how much.
But I think the fact that everyone is being more competitive in that region is probably going to decrease the imports overall for the year.
Well at this point we don't see any other questions in the queue.
We'd like to thank everyone for joining our call today and for making an effort and for taking the time to learn more about Intrepid.
Thank you very much.
Good morning and welcome to the Intrepid Potash 2012 Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year-end Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I'd like to remind everyone that this conference is being recorded today Thursday February 14 2013 at 8:00 a.m.
Mountain Standard Time.
It is my pleasure to turn the conference over to Gary Kohn Vice President Investor Relations.
Mr.
Kohn please go ahead.
Thank you Joe.
Good morning and thank you all for joining us for our Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Presenting on the call today are Bob Jornayvaz our Chairman and -- our Executive Chairman of the Board; Dave Honeyfield President and Chief Financial Officer; and Kelvin Feist Senior Vice President of Sales and Marketing.
Also in the room with us today are Hugh Harvey Executive Chairman of the Board; John Mansanti Senior Vice President of Operations; Martin Litt Executive Vice President and General Counsel; Brian Frantz Vice President of Finance and Chief Accounting Officer; and Ken Taylor Vice President of Business Development &amp; Research.
During today's call Bob will recap the fourth quarter and full year results and update you on our capital projects.
Kelvin will provide insight into market conditions and Dave will provide more color on our capital projects and our outlook.
We will then open the lines for your questions.
I would like to remind everyone that statements made on this call that are not historical facts or that express a belief expectation or intention including statements about our financial and operational outlook are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the United States securities laws.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance.
A number of assumptions which we believe are reasonable were made in connection with the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements.
The forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ from our expectations.
For more information with respect to our risks -- to the risks and uncertainties and other factors which could cause the actual results to differ from our forward-looking statements we direct you to the news release we issued yesterday and the risk factors and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q as filed with the SEC.
All forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by such factors.
Also during today's call we will reference certain non-GAAP financial measures including adjusted EBITDA adjusted net income and adjusted net income per diluted share which we believe provide useful information to investors.
Our earnings news release which is posted on our website at intrepidpotash.com includes reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures.
I will now turn the call over to Bob.
Thanks Gary and welcome everybody.
We appreciate your time today and your interest in Intrepid.
Intrepid is the largest producer of potash in the United States supplying more than 9% of the country's annual consumption.
Our focus remains on maximizing margins through a marketing strategy that has successfully allowed us to target the highest average net realized sales price among the North American producers by leveraging flexibility that we have built into our operations to adjust our production mix towards the highest-margin opportunities.
In the fourth quarter we achieved yet again the highest average net realized sales price and the highest average cash margin per ton of this group.
This strategy is further enhanced through our capital investment program that is geared towards producing incremental tons at significantly lowered costs.
In the fourth quarter we sold 203 000 tons of potash at an average net realized sales price of $434 per ton.
We produced these tons at a cash operating cost of goods sold net of by-product credits of $180 per ton an improvement from $194 per ton in the fourth quarter of 2011.
We reduced our costs.
This success was achieved through our marketing strategy by maintaining the strong relationships with a broad customer base and by selling to diverse markets and crops.
The favorable demand trend for our specialty product Trio generated an average net realized sales price of $347 per ton for the 43 000 tons we sold in the fourth quarter.
This average net realized sales price is a 21% increase from the fourth quarter of 2011.
Our cash cost of goods sold on these tons was $211 up from the same period in the previous years.
We continue to see improvements at our East facility as we work on getting that facility up to its design.
Our fourth quarter adjusted EBITDA was $41.5 million and adjusted net income was $19.7 million or $0.26 per diluted share.
We generated $55.5 million in cash flow from operations in the fourth quarter bringing the full year total to $187.8 million which is an 8% increase from 2011.
In 2012 we made capital investments of $253 million and paid a special dividend of $56.5 million.
We finished the year with cash cash equivalents and short-term investments totaling $57.7 million no debt outstanding under our unsecured $250 million revolving credit facility and the funding of our $150 million of unsecured notes scheduled for April.
The special dividend reflects the confidence that we have in our progress with capital projects and our ability to deliver value from them as well as our confidence in our people and the business.
We are committed to creating shareholder value by investing in our business to increase production profitability cash flow and margins.
Our solid financial results and robust balance sheet afford us this opportunity.
The majority of the $250 million of capital investments we made during 2012 was directed towards strategic projects designed to produce incremental tons at lower costs to add flexibility to our production process and to sustain our current infrastructure and 	operations.
By combining the solution mining and solar evaporation we have demonstrated our ability to utilize and invest in our company to increase production while significantly lowering the cost per ton.
Our results reflect this.
Our HB Solar Solution mine continues to progress on all fronts.
We have completed the drilling for all the injection and extraction wells installed the pipeline required to make all of the connections and the construction and lining of the ponds is moving forward on schedule.
We have finalized an improved design for the mill poured the footings for its foundation and are expecting to begin erecting steel shortly.
Importantly during the fourth quarter we began to pump brine from the mines into the first evaporation pond.
This major milestone means that we are on schedule to see our first harvest late this year following the summer evaporation season and the construction of the new mill.
Our HB project is not only impressive but it is also unique.
We have turned an idle potash mine a non-potable aquifer and the sun's energy into a solar solution mine capable of producing 150 000 to 200 000 tons annually at approximately 1/2 of our current average cash cost per ton which is already in reduction.
Furthermore this environmentally friendly mining project has created a real boost to the economy in Southeast New Mexico.
In Moab another of our social solution mines our team of geologists and drilling experts are using the latest technologies to create new horizontal mining caverns within a complex geologic structure.
We have successfully completed the drilling of our second cavern system and have begun drilling the third system.
We expect these additional cavern systems to be additive to 2013 production and continue to reduce our costs.
The success of our drilling program and the demonstrated ability to stay in contact with the ore body during the drilling is a testament to the teamwork technical capabilities and execution by our highly qualified staff.
I'm extremely proud of and encouraged by the team and the progress they have made on these game-changing projects.
Our team is focused on building shareholder value.
Our strategy of optimizing production and selling into diverse crops and industries in our backyard markets remains core to our success.
As we continue to improve our execution and the projects come online we will be primed to deliver an even higher per-ton average cash margin than we do today as we continue to reduce our costs.
Kelvin Feist our Head of Marketing and Sales is now going to provide you with some insights on the driving factors for our fourth quarter sales results as well as the favorable macro trends in the marketplace that have us feeling extremely confident about 2013.
Thanks Bob.
The full potash application season unfolded pretty much as we were anticipating with feedback from customers reporting healthy application rates.
We sold 203 000 tons of potash during the fourth quarter.
This was 20 000 tons or 11% more than we sold in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Importantly we believe this signals a favorable spring application season in North America with solid potash application rates positive cropping intentions and strong incentives for farmers to maximize their return per acre.
The macro jet -- trends going into the year namely the low stocks-to-use ratios and the resulting sold commodity prices are favorable to farmers.
These strong grain commodity prices present the farmer with a promising profit outlook for this year.
Just this week the USDA said that farm income in 2013 is projected to be the highest in the last 40 years.
To capture this profit's potential farmers will look to maximize yield by adding adequate and balanced nutrients to the soil.
This supports our positive outlook for positive potash consumption.
Our success in the fourth quarter and into 2013 is based on a solid foundation of partnerships with our customers.
Our customers continue to look for tools to reduce their risk in holding potash inventory.
It's in the [ph] programs to ensure we capitalize on opportunities and are able to supply just-in-time purchases.
Our flexibility has helped us broaden our customer base and our geographical footprint.
The recent international potash activity specifically the Indian and Chinese contracts is another positive development for the potash markets.
We believe that having these contracts signed and in place removes a degree of uncertainty from the marketplace.
The contractual volumes in these agreements indicates that large international customers are buying again which should keep tons moving into those markets.
Our specialty product Trio was another highlight in the quarter.
The existing strong demand combined with the recognition in the market of this product's value once again supported a favorable price trend.
The average net realized sales price of Trio increased by $11 to $347 per ton in the fourth quarter from $336 in the third quarter.
We sold 43 000 tons in the fourth quarter compared to 28 000 tons a year ago resulting in us once again being virtually sold out of granular Trio.
We expect continued success with Trio in 2013 and plan to place every ton that we produce.
Thanks.
And I'll now turn the call to Dave.
Thanks Kelvin.
The strength of our cash flows and balance sheet allows us to invest in capital projects that will make meaningful and sustained improvements in the operating profile of Intrepid.
As we look through 2013 and into 2014 and beyond our key solar solution mining projects are expected to comprise a larger percentage of the tons we sell with those tons being produced at significantly lower cash costs.
The positive effect on our profitability from this straightforward math of incrementally lower-cash-cost tons is very compelling and it becomes clear to see how our EBITDA growth should accelerate at an even faster pace than our sales volume growth.
We plan to make capital investments during 2013 in the range of $235 million to $285 million.
Our capital investment plan contemplates completing and commissioning the HB Solar Solution mine substantially completing our North compaction plant expanding the mining caverns in Moab and investing nearly $100 million in additional capital in various smaller-opportunity projects as well as in sustaining capital.
As we complete the HB mill design and our planned initial drilling activities we have decided to increase the investment in our HB Solar Solution mine project in order to enhance its long-term reliability predictability and operating efficiency.
We now plan to invest between $225 million and $245 million a modest 9% increase from the midpoint of the previous range.
Our plans now include augmenting our brine supply wells so that we have a more robust source of non-potable water to use for making the injectate brines and various upgrades to the mill design.
As we continue to enhance the flexibility of our operations we have designed our granulation facilities to be able to produce and sell the highest-margin products into the marketplace.
Our new North compaction plant will be state-of-the-art larger and more efficient than our existing compaction plant.
We have sequenced the installation of the first second and third compaction lines to be in service ahead of the expected production from our HB Solar Solution mine as well as the increased production from the existing West mine.
This project is on budget with $55 million invested through the end of 2012 of the estimated $95 million to $100 million budget.
One of our most significant operational achievements last year was the improvement we drove at our East plant through our diligence and focus.
During the Third Quarter Call we said that we were taking the right steps we had the right people in place and that we expect to see continued improvements in our results over time.
While our production level for potash at East improved again in the fourth quarter with a 10% sequential improvement from the third quarter.
This follows the improvements we reported in the third and the second quarters.
In fact our East facility had its best production quarter since early 2011.
Annualizing the fourth quarter production run rate matches our historical annual production rate from the East facility.
Before concluding our prepared remarks I want to call your attention to 3 items you should expect to see in our financials in 2013.
First we anticipate our effective tax rate to be between 36% and 38% with cash taxes representing approximately 25% of the total tax expense.
Second we don't expect to see interest expense increase as a result of the notes that are funding in April.
The majority of our interest obligations will be capitalized as part of our capital investment program.
And third as we previously disclosed we anticipate a final settlement of the pension liability in the first half of the year.
We estimate that the settlement will result in a pretax charge in the range of $1.5 million to $2.5 million.
In closing we are very pleased with the results and the progress we made in 2012.
We entered 2013 confident that we are on track to meet our objective of increasing profits and cash flow as the investments we've made to produce incremental tons at lower cash costs begin to contribute to our results.
The benefit from these investments are becoming very clear as we near completion and look into 2013 and we expect that these projects will contribute even more meaningfully in 2014 and beyond.
We remain confident in the direction of the business and look forward to sharing with you our continued success.
We'll now open the lines for any questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question is from Mark Connelly of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Kurt Schoen for Mark.
So in looking at your cost of goods sold guidance I was hoping you could just break down the low and high end of the range and maybe put that into perspective how much of that is fixed cost absorption from volume how much of that is East Mine work how much of that is incremental HB tonnage coming on.
Sure Kurt.
I can give you a little bit of color around that.
I think when you're -- one of the things that I've observed from reading some of the notes is that I think one thing the Street seems to be missing is the impact of DD&amp;A in total COGS.
And when I look at total cash COGS on average from 2012 to 2013 I actually see that as being relatively flat.
That's in the face of -- we're always going to have some salary adjustments we've got vendors that are pushing on costs et cetera.
That being said we are seeing an improved production.
And actually we're seeing lower cash costs at our East facility than we did in 2012.
I expect that we will see things being about flat at West and at our Moab and Wendover facilities.
But what that means also is we'll have more tons available from the East facility as we go through 2013.
So product mix has a little bit of an impact on that.
But when we're talking about costs we're looking at seeing things stay pretty darn flat on a cash cost basis through 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then what about in SG&amp;A? I saw that go up in your forecast there go up about 13%.
Can you give any insight into that? Yes we've got -- in SG&amp;A it tends to be a fairly modest increase overall when you look at some of the additions that we've been able to make on the engineering front enhancing some of our geology and mine planning expertise.
Each one of those positions we go through a pretty careful analysis.
And we're looking at how many tons we produce per employee to make sure that we're not letting that creep further than we really think is appropriate.
So there's nothing in there that's too significant.
And one of the pieces that I would touch on is that we've been doing a lot of our work on our core hole drilling program.
And on the reserve front one of the things certainly that you'll see today is that in each of our areas we've been able to extend the reserve life and increase the reserve profile of the company.
And that's a pretty significant item in terms of how we think about the long-term planning for the company.
Next question is from Don Carson of Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Just a few questions on market conditions.
I mean you referenced the India settlement and -- but I'm just wondering have you seen any change in dealer willingness to step up and buy product? Because your comments were suggesting that there was a reluctance.
So I'm just wondering how you see the direction of prices as we get into the spring if you posted an increase for the spring season.
And then just if you can comment on your level of consignment sales.
This is Bob.
I'll comment first.
We just got back from the TFI conference and I would say that conference was much more positive than we expected.
We're seeing great movement we're seeing -- we saw significant activity just in the last couple of days.
We were at that conference Monday Tuesday and Wednesday and so here we are Thursday morning.
And so we have seen significant movement in the marketplace from a volume perspective in the last just several days and hours if you will.
So what we're seeing in the market from a volume and a movement perspective and the willingness of dealers to come in and start buying we're seeing activity there.
As to pricing and what we see we're seeing some pricing that's being taken a little bit farther out than I would say is typical.
We're seeing some pricing into March and April and there's a couple that are even talking about taking some pricing into early May.
So in terms of seeing a near-term price bump I don't think we've got the set stage for it going into early April.
However we're seeing great movement very solid movement very positive movement and a very positive atmosphere that came out of the TFI conference that we all just got back from.
With that I'll turn it over to Kelvin and let him give it a little more color.
Kelvin? Sure.
Yes Don I think in general all these contracts equal increased global demand.
And I think whenever you see that it's -- we're seeing markets opening up here and more product moving to them.
So I think the trend is in the right direction and certainly that's a positive view on our part.
I think when I think about North America and that's really where we participate with our potash we're hearing a lot of positive things.
Whenever you're seeing the amount of seeding intentions that are out there we're going to see more potash go on those acres.
And certainly the rates are going in the right direction as well.
So from a North American perspective we're seeing a lot of positive things with the current commodity prices where they're at...
LLLP Research Division</strong> And just to follow up on your comment on pricing.
You said some of your competitors are offering to fix prices through May.
So are you seeing the Canadians still being pretty aggressive? Because obviously they've got a lot of new capacity they got to place into the market.
Yes I think we're seeing a competitiveness there but I wouldn't say it's different than what we've seen in the past.
I think the bigger key is the second part of your question which was about warehousing.
And we've got a number of warehouse programs out there that we've offered up and as have the Canadians.
And that's really seems to be where a lot of the attention is being placed right now.
So I'm just going to say -- okay just to say one more comment on that.
I think that there is a lot of competition on the pricing side.
And I think that that's one piece that frankly folks need to take into account as we go through 2013.
We're seeing it in the market we're seeing that behavior being driven by the Canadians as they have really worked very hard on each of their respective fronts to secure some space.
And despite all the things that you would look at macro-wise product movement into the international markets farmer profitability being at -- we're talking about the highest level in 40 years and this is on the heels of the last 4 or 5 years you're looking at affordability.
You're still seeing price be one of the major tools frankly that the Canadians are using so we've got to react to that.
And we're committed to continuing to produce at full rates and I think that's the right strategy for us given our backyard markets.
But I think that when I look at a lot of the first call numbers some of those pricing numbers frankly feel pretty strong to me against what we're seeing in behavior by the Canadians right now.
The other thing that I would just add is now that the Indian and Chinese contracts are settled we're going to see a lot of standard movement from the Canadians going offshore which is going to provide a lot of relief to a variety of our markets.
And as you know we serve a very diverse group of markets.
So from our perspective it's good news if those contracts have settled.
So it's not only just volume but it's standard volume that's going to be moving off.
So it's a complex market.
The Canadians have -- had a lot of issues that they needed to get resolved and we saw it occur in the form of pricing.
But there's a lot of really good movement that's now beginning to occur.
So I don't know if that's the color you're looking for but we try to give you as much information as we can relating to what's actually going on in the marketplace.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Just one follow-up.
What are you seeing coming into New Orleans from some of the offshore competitors like the Russians and the Israelis? Has that toned down now that they've got volume moving out to China and now India? It's the same tonnage that we see year over year over year.
There is nothing new that we're seeing coming in in terms of volumes.
We're seeing the same type volumes the same type questions the same type issues that we've been seeing for the last several years.
So we're not seeing any increased foreign tonnage that we're really feeling in the marketplace.
So I would say that we're seeing a little bit of additional tonnage on the far East Coast.
It's coming out of South America but it's much more limited and site specific.
And so now that we've seen these other markets open up what we're hearing is that those tons are going to find [indiscernible]elsewhere.
So when we look at the gross tonnage of foreign tons coming into the United States it's about the same as we've always seen.
We in our core markets just haven't felt the pressure from those foreign tonnage.
The next question is from Christopher Parkinson of Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
You touched on this a little bit but can you just add a little more color on what you're hearing from your customer base based on current inventory levels and just a kind of from a demand perspective.
And more specifically are there any noticeable differences between some of your core geographies? Sure I'll take that one Christopher.
In terms of inventory levels they're elevated over the -- you know what IPI puts out some numbers and they're elevated slightly over the 5-year average.
I think what you've got to think about is both that standard and granular inventory that other folks are carrying.
I think in terms of our inventory levels we've managed to sell more than we produced last year and that kind of was we were successful in kind of drawing down our inventory level.
If we think about the field if you will and what's going on out there we are seeing more people doing consignment or risk-averse programs and so that needs to be factored into that.
I think you all -- we see more -- a bigger commitment in areas where the Corn Belt if you will versus other areas that are drier or might have some drought potential.
So there's -- there are different risk levels from the farm gate and/or dealers.
But I think in general most people are planning for a good spring.
And we're probably 3 quarters full in the field right now and we're going to start seeing some activity here really soon so things are looking positive.
I'd just remind people that people are talking about a 97-million-acre corn crop and potentially even larger which has never occurred.
I mean I -- nobody has ever serviced that large a corn crop.
And so a lot of the discussion from TFI was the logistics and the inventory that's required to service that large corn crop.
Historically over the last couple of years we've served as something in the high 80s and in the low 90s but something in the high 90s has never been serviced.
And every farmer that we're talking to is also talking about trying to maintain their presence on the yield curve.
So we're just having a lot of positive discussions about what this spring could look like with -- even if we were to get back to a 95-million-acre corn crop we're still talking about historic levels.
And so what we want to convey today is the positive discussions that took place over the last couple of days at the TFI conference about this very significant corn crop coming up and the logistics required and inventory required to service it.
Research Division</strong> And just a very quick follow-up on CapEx.
I understand you don't give quarterly guidance but just as far as the distribution do you think it's going to be -- do you have any color on just whether how much of it is going to be loaded into the first half versus the second and then also just any milestones you're really looking for over the next 6 to 12 months from your perspective? Chris this is Dave.
If you think about the bigger projects that are out there certainly HB North those 2 being the largest certainly you're going to see a higher concentration of capital investment in -- probably in Q1 Q2 and then see a little bit of a tailing on that starting in Q3.
When we're looking at HB for example we're making great progress on the pond system but we are looking to demobilize the earthmoving equipment because we're getting near the end of that phase of the project.
We still have the pond lining and the salt lay down to occur.
And we're starting -- there's a lot of activity related to the mill right now.
So yes hopefully that gives a little bit of color on that.
With regards to North we anticipate seeing the first of the 3 compactor lines come online in the second quarter sometime towards the end of that quarter.
That means that the bulk of the equipment is going to be set.
A lot of the dollars will certainly be in place at that time.
We'll be doing some -- the buildout of the second and third line and completing that is really tied to getting  electrical run getting some of those items put in place.
So you'll see the intensity of the dollars be a little bit lower.
So hopefully that gives you a little bit of sense of timing around that.
The next question is from Joel Jackson of BMO Capital Markets.
Maybe I'd first just follow up a little bit on some of your capital investment ideas.
I know it's a bit early for '14 but could you give us a sense of sort of in '14 what you'd expect on some of your opportunistic projects? And maybe also if you could talk about sort of what your maintenance capital level was in 2012 and then what it looks like in '13 and '14.
Joel this is Dave.
I'll start on the sustaining side.
What we've told folks pretty consistently is that we think the right level of sustaining capital is somewhere in that $40 million to $50 million range.
We certainly have a very intentional program of building reliability into the system having predictive replacements and such.
So I would just model that in as a fairly consistent piece from year to year.
As we look into 2014 the larger capital projects being HB and North will be largely behind us.
And of smaller-opportunity projects we continue to look at the next step of recovery on the langbeinite side.
We're continuing to look at expanding our West facility to increase the throughput in that area.
We continue to have opportunities on the solution mining side.
I think if you remember on the Third Quarter Call we talked about acquiring additional leasehold in the Carlsbad area that's suitable for solution mining.
So we are continuing to move those items forward.
We've got a pretty intentional program internally where we look at moving each one of those projects forward.
I don't see the capital investment numbers being quite where they're at for 2013 in 2014.
But clearly as we get some of these projects scoped we'll keep the market informed and make sure that we give you a sense of the returns associated with them and the time lines with some of these activities.
And on HB as the -- the additional CapEx is that going to give any increased probability that you'll be able to pull out at the high end of your production range at HB maybe 200 000 tons? And also what of these activities.
And on HB as the -- the additional CapEx is that going to give any increased probability that you'll be able to pull out near the high end of your production range at HB maybe 200 000 tons? And also what has changed in the last few weeks that did make you increase by about $20 million on the midpoint the CapEx? Because you did update that it was on budget a few weeks ago.
Well the -- what we've gone through is final mill pricing.
And we made some very intentional decisions around flotation cells and around screening that frankly we believe are -- improve our reliability of the plant.
We believe it improves the ability to bring that plant up in a manner that's very consistent with how we operate at Moab and Wendover.
And then we also are making the decision to really add and I'll call it some buffer.
But I want to make sure that we have capacity on the brine inject dates.
So we're -- we've got scheduled drilling additional brine wells than -- over what we had originally planned.
So I see these items as real positives and frankly making the plant better leveraging off of things that we've learned over the years here and really making the right decisions that certainly give us a better chance to be successful.
I guess and I would add to that is that as we continue to create and engineer opportunities we're trying to build-in the opportunities of infrastructure today while we have equipment out there and on place and the capital in place to add wells so that -- when those additional opportunities present themselves and are ripe that we've already made the investments to bring things on possibly sooner than later and be able to handle incremental volumes and achieve higher recoveries.
So when -- we really improved the mill design pretty significantly and we're building-in additional flexibility with wells assuming and hoping that additional solution mining opportunities can come to fruition quicker.
And finally you did do a $0.75 special dividend late last year.
You obviously have a large capital investment program this year.
Maybe you can talk about when do you think you could be in position to maybe entertain the idea of doing a regular dividend? Is that more something in '14? Or because of the capital investment program you see is that more of a '15 decision? And where are you comfortable in in increasing your leverage? Well as we've discussed before as we bring on lower-cost solution mining tons which we're at Wendover which we're doing at Moab -- sometimes we forget that Wendover is we believe the second lowest-cost producer in the world just under what we believe the Chinese are spending.
So we have a phenomenal asset in Wendover.
We continue to improve our Moab facility which we continue to bring its cost structure down.
We continue to have success at East and bring its cost structure down as our langbeinite production goes up.
West has become significantly more reliable.
So as we've made the capital investments we're seeing our facilities become more reliable.
And our ability to manage our risk through the reliability and cost structure of our facilities has changed and we now can rely on a cash flow stream from great to solid assets that we've invested in rather than having to rely on cash on our balance sheet.
So it's a different style of risk management.
Hugh and I are sitting here today and as the 2 largest shareholders I can tell you with a lot of confidence that as these facilities continue to come on and continue to improve and improve sequentially quarter after quarter we see the kind of the results that we're seeing at Wendover and Moab are our ability and desire as large shareholders to be able to make dividends is very much in line with the rest of our shareholder base.
So I can guarantee that -- as we continue to build that reliability that we are totally aligned with our shareholders in trying to return cash to our shareholders.
So I can't really give you a date on that.
All I can tell you is that we're very excited with the progress that we're seeing.
We're on schedule in so many of our projects.
So many of our projects that had problems we fixed them.
We have I got to tell you one of the best engineering and technical teams in the world right now in the potash business and it continues to show up in our results.
So that's a long long-winded answer to your question but when the time is right I can guarantee that as the 2 largest shareholders sitting here we're aligned with you and we intend to do it.
The next question is from Adam Samuelson of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping to start maybe in Trio.
And probably you've seen the price gap on Trio relative to the potash now significantly in 2012.
And your Trio price you realized Trio price is up 41% relative to a decline in potash.
I mean maybe talk about your outlook there and kind of how much more room you have even if there is on the price gap between Trio and potash to start? This is Bob.
Let me start with kind of a bigger picture on that.
The thing that I'm most proud of about Trio was that we went out globally and we've built that market out.
We've increased the market size for Trio rather than having gone out and trying to ply market share.
And that's reflected of educating a market and showing a market what a great product Trio is because of the components that make it up.
So the first part of understanding why we're seeing price appreciation is that we've gone out we've spent a time with our agronomists to travel the world to build a market to partner with great folks like PotashCorp and Yora [ph] internationally to educate the market as to that product and grow that product.
And so I'll let Kelvin speak to more of the specifics but from a business strategy we were always geared around building a market and not to trying to buy a market.
And that's a very very different strategy.
And so as to continued strength in the market that we see pricewise I'll let Kelvin address that.
Sure.
Adam I think there's a couple of things that we're seeing.
What we always do is we -- well first of all years ago I think it keeps track with the potash pricing and I guess we worked really hard to try and separate those 2.
And the reason we've been doing that is customers are seeing so much value in the magnesium today and the sulfate components today as well as the potassium component of that product.
So that's the one piece as we pulled it apart and said this is a specialty product it's not a -- it's not as near as commoditized as say a potash.
I think the second piece is where we're trying to place that product.
This product tends to go on higher-value crops chloride-sensitive crops specialty crops that really tend to make more margin per acre.
And so we're really pushing hard to offer a product that gives them more value and allows them to sell their specialty crops for more dollars.
So I think we've had real big success on that and we're going to continue to push that way.
I guess in terms of the question it really depends on if we see strength in the sulfate market magnesium market and the potash market.
And today we're seeing demand picking up on the potassium side so there's no reason to think that we can't continue to keep a decent spread between those 2 products.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then maybe on the production side in Trio.
I mean your production guidance for next year I mean up 14 to 36 in the range.
I mean your 4Q production has been -- you've first of all been pretty flat at these levels for a couple of quarters now.
What gives you the confidence to step up kind of from the current run rates as you move through 2013? Adam this is Dave.
When we're looking into 2013 I think you need to put it in context with the overall program around our East improvement process that has taken us in from '12 into '13.
The first part of that program was really geared around the front part of that plant which is the sylvite or potash production.
And we needed to make those steps and improvements first because that ends up being feedstock into the langbeinite or Trio plant.
Those improvements have started to take place in the Trio production.
We've done some redesign work on the plant we've had that.
A lot of that installation work has occurred here in January early February and we've got a little bit more work to do.
And frankly we're seeing some improved recoveries as we move into '13 here.
So I think we're going to be cautious in terms of reporting what we see coming forward.
We want to make sure that we don't frankly put our customers in a tight spot.
The conversations with you all on the public side are pretty easy relative to the conversations that we have to have with some of our customers.
And we want to make sure that we're being very realistic in terms of what we can deliver.
But that being said as we see improvements we'll get that information out straightaway.
And I anticipate that we'll -- I feel pretty good about where we're at going forward and think that we've got a good path to get us closer to where that original design capacity was.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then maybe finally for me switching gears just thinking about the North compaction plant.
As that fully comes onstream and you get the HB solar mine up what percentage of the total production on the potash side ultimately gets granulated? I mean just trying to be conscious of the pricing margin impact there.
Yes I think that maybe 2 parts to that question.
One is I think we can go through an absolute math piece.
And if memory serves Adam and I'm thinking about our capacity if you can mine Moab we've got 100% capacity to compact; Wendover we've got 100% capacity; HB and West we'll have 100% capacity; and we're kind of around 35% to 40% capacity on potash production at East; and then we've got 100% capacity for our Trio facility.
So I think the important piece there is recognizing that we have the flexibility to manage our production mix.
We see various points in time where standard product is demanding a higher margin than granular product and having the ability to adjust up or down based on what the market demands are is really what we've built into the system.
So overall directionally what we're doing is -- the impact is so significant when you look at -- like at Moab for example and the ability to manage that production level just to afford such an opportunity to keep inventories fairly low is a starting point and make sure that we continue to move product into the market.
The other thing that I would add to that that really is a huge piece is it's not just the ability to compact 100% of your product but it's now having state-of-the-art compactors producing some of the highest-quality potash if not the highest-quality potash in North America.
So by investing the money in the compaction plants with state-of-the-art technology giving us the ability to produce the highest-quality product creates so many marketing opportunities in the -- and flexibility.
So it's not just capacity it's also the quality piece.
Next question comes from Bill Carroll of UBS.
Research Division</strong> When will spending on the next phase of HB kick into high gear? And how will that spend compare to the first phase? And also any incremental permitting issues that you might encounter there? Bill I just want to make sure I'm understanding your question.
Because when we talked about additional solution mining activities we're really seeing that.
Is that what you're describing? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Just the further buildout of HB after the first phase.
Yes I think -- let's make sure we keep things in perspective here.
A big piece of what we're doing now with HB is building the ponds building that pond capacity and building the mill.
So when we look at next stages of solar solution mining certainly we need to make sure we've got a great handle on what the permitting time lines look like around it.
But we've built a lot of that infrastructure already.
So we see the capital intensity of those projects being a lower capital intensity.
At this point we don't have -- I don't have time lines or dollars to hand you.
I think what I've tried to help you understand is that we are looking at each of those opportunities very closely.
We're trying to understand exactly what it will take to go through the process of them and make sure that we've got the capital estimates built out appropriately and to know that there's significant amount of opportunity there.
Yes.
And let me add to that.
I -- one of the things that we wanted to make very clear in our last quarterly call was that we've acquired the leases from the appropriate governmental authorities which is the first step in being able to execute on an additional solution mining opportunity is to actually own the leases.
And so we've now done that.
And so now all of the appropriate next steps of internal engineering and external permitting are -- all of those discussions are taking place and trust me that those are going to happen as quickly as we can make them happen.
And as soon as we have clarity on what those time lines look like and then we'll obviously share them with you.
But the first step is obtaining the leases from the appropriate whether it's state or federal.
And we've done that Research Division</strong> What kind of effects might you guys feel both positively and negatively? Well it's nice being on the West side of the river to be quite honest.
When you look at where we are -- where we're located I'll let Kelvin address that a little bit more but being primarily on the West side of the river is a good thing.
Yes Bill I think that the biggest thing is we feel like it impacts our competitors more than it impacts us.
So to me it -- we don't do a lot of activity on the river.
And because we have a diverse plan with a number of segments in the industrial the feed and the ag; as well as a decent geographical footprint I think those are the 2 things that really drive our business.
And we tried to stay -- I won't say stay away from the river but certainly we don't actively participate like some of the other players.
So there's probably more concern from the importers from the phosphate folks.
The importers of urea are probably the ones that will be most impacted if low levels continue.
The next question comes from Mark Gulley of BGC Partners.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Guys I got 3 questions.
I'll do them one at a time.
One is on marketing one is on accounting and one is on financial.
Kelvin you've made some positive statements about the state of the potash market.
And yet if I look at the guidance for the first quarter I think I had volumes down 8% year-over-year and the prices down I think about 9% year-over-year although it's more or less flat sequentially.
So how do you reconcile the mood coming out of TFI and all that with some of the numbers that you're guiding to? Yes well Mark I think the first thing price is the price.
And we're a smaller player so we're involved in it but certainly there's other players that tend to drive the price.
So that is what it is.
I think on the demand side what we were seeing is a change in price here recently.
Warehouse pricing moved from 4 70 to 4 60 [ph] in the Midwest.
And it really stopped movement for us -- or slowed movement for us.
So now we're starting to see people settle into that new price range.
And we're going to start seeing some shipments happening here.
So it just slowed us up in January and February and now we're seeing some activity and I think we confirmed it at TFI.
So that's the positive takeaway that we saw.
And I guess we were reacting to some of the slowness in January and the first part of February.
I think just to complement those comments from Kelvin.
Mark when we looked at our average net realized sales price advantage I think that really confirms what Kelvin's describing and I think it confirms what we're doing.
And when we look at the folks that have already reported we realized $58 more per ton -- per short ton than our Canadian competitors.
And our net margin ended up being $31 more per ton.
So I think you that you have to recognize that we are going to participate in that market.
We are going to I think perform better on a relative basis and continue to drive that net realized price advantage piece.
And I'd love to tell you that seasons line up perfectly with fiscal quarter end but as you know we need to look across the application seasons themselves.
And so that's a little bit too of what we're dealing with.
It doesn't change our review on the long term over the course of the year but it's certainly predicting that activity from month to month is sometimes a bit of a challenge.
And I would just add to that.
A lot of the things that have occurred have literally occurred in the last few days.
And so we've seen a lot of positive movements that have occurred just literally within hours and days.
And so we're trying to report them as they occur in realtime.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Dave an accounting question for you.
As the amount of consignment sales seem to increase for you and your competitors just remind us on the revenue recognition accounting policy for consignment shipments and/or sales.
Yes the way -- and I cannot begin to tell you how our competitors do this so please don't ask me to reconcile that.
I know what we do and I believe it's right.
To the extent we place a ton in a customer's warehouse we still have title to that.
And so it stays in our inventory and we don't recognize revenue until that product is sold out of the warehouse.
If there's something where there might be a collar or something around a price we recognize revenue only to the lowest dollar amount at the time of the quarter until that period might expire.
It's not as much from a volume perspective as you might think.
A lot of that settles -- it tends to settle around quarter-ends as well for the dealers and distributors.
So we don't have that much carryover from period to period I'd say probably less than maybe as a percentage than even some of the other producers.
But we do try to be very flexible in terms of the way those programs work for each of our customers.
And Kelvin and his team know our customers pretty well and what's important for them individually.
And being smaller we can be a little bit more nimbler around that and really tailor programs that we think are fair to us as the producer and at the same time help our customers achieve some of their goals.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm sort of guessing there's some gamesmanship around what you just talked about on settling quarter-end.
It sounds like if I'm a customer and I know that you would like to recognize some shipments and I think I have a price in mind my observation would be that that gives them some leverage.
No I wouldn't say so because we -- I've taken a pretty clear line with the guys here that sales fall when they fall.
And we're not going to get into that situation where you try to pull something forward into a quarter because frankly all it does is leave you with a big hole in the next one.
And it's not a -- I don't think that's an effective way to manage our business.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Let me wrap up quickly if I can with a financial question and maybe this is for Bob.
With the cost overruns on the CapEx program and somewhat lower pricing assumptions probably for potash how has the IRR internal rate of return on this overall project change from when you first approved it to maybe where you stand right now? Well I guess the first thing is that when we look at "cost overruns " there's a difference when you purposely redesign a mill because you think you can enhance its recovery.
The IRR doesn't necessarily go down because you've increased and improved the design.
And so you've also designed it to potentially handle additional tons and you've gone from one style of flotation that's more proven from another style that was a bit more experimental.
And so reliability is something we value.
Product quality is something that we value.
So I don't think we're going to see any degradation in the rates of return that we see from these projects because of the enhanced designs that we've chosen to go down that path.
The other thing and I'll just reiterate it on the well drilling is we mobilized we've paid to mobilize rigs.
We have rigs out there and we believe we're going to have additional opportunities.
And so while we have rigs out there while we've paid them up [ph] and move into safety mode [ph] it's an appropriate time to drill more wells when we have the capital to go ahead and have that additional water at our disposal.
So we can call them cost overruns but I look at it in a very very opportunistic fashion in terms of the capital that we're spending while we have capital available to us and we're working our butts off to bring some of these opportunities to fruition faster.
So I guess I would put them in a different basket if that makes sense.
Next question is from Ivan Marcuse of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> It's Andrew Dunn on for Ivan.
Just quickly are you looking at your market share kind of staying the same in 2013 right now? Or do you anticipate that it may swing in one direction or another? Kelvin do you want to take that? Sure.
I think we've talked about the diversity that we're operating under playing in that industrial market the feed market and the ag.
And I guess based on that we don't see a significant shift in what our customers are bringing us and the overall market.
I think there's a lot of strength in the ag side right now and we're participating there.
So will we see any change in market share? I would say it's very unlikely.
We're going to move the volume that we have available.
We've reduced our inventories to a much lower level.
We're now selling very close to what we're producing and we plan to manage it that way.
So if we see a dramatic increase in the demand in North America and we only have X amount we will see a slight reduction in our market share.
But the reality is we're selling what we produce and that's the key for us.
One of the items that maybe hasn't become as obvious to folks as we would have hoped was that we sold about 40 000 tons more product than we produced in 2012.
And fortuitous as it is we've sold that at higher net realized prices than expect or are going to be available to us here in 2013.
So when folks look at trend lines and such I think take a look at the production line and recognize that we're going to sell what we produce and we've got a -- what I described to be kind of a pretty low inventory level.
And there's not a whole lot of extra room in there because you have to maintain a certain amount of inventory level.
We want to make sure we've always got inventory for our truck sales.
We want to make sure that when -- if you get that unit train order that needs to be delivered because if the customer needs we can fill that in the time line.
So that's a piece that hopefully folks can grab a hold of.
And that North America inventory position report that you see get put out every month it's just not reflective of what Intrepid's inventory situation is.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then moving forward I just want to make sure I understood your comments on the additional brine water wells at HB solar.
Did you kind of alluded that that would create kind of the potential for additional capacity on top of what you'd already commented on? Or is that just kind of increasing the reliability that you hit the capacity numbers you've already put out? And also do you think you can just remind us of the expected ramp-up on that from 4Q '13? Sure.
I can give it a little bit of color.
And John if you need to hop in here please don't hesitate.
What we're expecting is that we will do 2 things.
One is it increases the capacity overall which would allow us to inject at a higher rate for a longer period of time.
So making contact with the potash ore is what this project is all about.
And we want to make sure that we're able to get the mine works filled as quickly as we can and then we can have better control on the extraction rate around that.
So I mean that's really the key to this project that it allows us to expand the areal extent of what we're mining and really drives higher concentrates to come out of the mines that way.
Next question comes from Charles Neivert of Dahlman Rose.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions.
One quarter-over-quarter well in terms of pricing I mean it's sort of quarter-to-date at least are we currently below where you were in the fourth quarter? Is that what -- we're looking at something on that order that's somewhat lower than where we are -- where we were in 4Q? Charlie this is Dave...
LLC Research Division</strong> You don't have to forecast anything out.
Just where we are right now.
Yes it's a -- because of the price moves that the PotashCorp announced in December and then the warehouse moves that have taken place recently that you're seeing pricing today lower than where it was in the fourth quarter.
And we'll need to see where the quarter shapes out.
But like I was mentioning a little bit earlier that is the market that the Canadians are selling into.
And I think if you look at Green Markets from -- I don't know pick midpoints in the quarter because they're probably representative.
If you look at Green Markets I think it was 490 to 500 in middle part of November and I think we're at 470 to 460 right now Charlie.
So that's some of the movement that the Canadians have driven into the market.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay so if we use those sort of as the barometers to get the movement not necessarily the absolute value we would look at that in terms of 4Q to 1Q as to what kind of movement the price might see on your books give or take something on that mark.
We tend to be about -- our net realized price historically has been about 85% of that number.
It varies a little bit within that range but certainly on a directional basis you're likely to see that direction.
The point I'll make is that whether price tends to be going up or going down we seem to be pretty consistent in terms of a higher net realized price than certainly any of our competitors.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right got it.
And then in looking at the 4Q-1Q combination if we look back a year what it looks like based on your guidance is you're -- it looks like you're basically going to flip-flop '11 '12 with -- and '12 '13; meaning you went 183 203 in '11 '12 this year it looks like it's 203 and if the midpoint of your guidance is right 185.
So it's basically same sales number tonnage wise just different order.
And then I guess the gains year-on-year are going to have to come in the remaining quarters of the year versus again against your guidance that you've given us having up sales volume somewhat up sales volume.
Yes.
And we really -- we look at that over the course of the year.
I mean we try to model those things best we can month-to-month Charlie.
But as you appreciate sometimes the season starts sooner.
For a variety of reasons there are open-weather windows or you've got heavy rains et cetera.
So we always talk about a normal year.
But I mean you've been doing this a long time too and it's -- there are no 2 years that are exactly the same.
But I think you're -- I mean we're trying to give you the best picture we have right now looking forward.
We tend to see our highest -- and this will all be in the 10-K that comes out this afternoon.
We tend to see some of our highest 3-month periods being in that fall time frame.
That being said when you can look over the years and we've seen pretty darn strong demand profiles come through in the spring.
And when looking at all the factors that we've touched on in call and we still see this as a very positive spring for the company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes I certainly anticipate all the farmers doing what they're supposed to do.
There's no reason not to.
Okay.
Next question is from Adam Schatzker of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a few quick questions here.
There was a question asked earlier about 2014 CapEx and I just wanted to clarify.
You said I think it was "something not radically different from '13." Is that the correct interpretation that we might be looking in and around the $250 million range for 2013 -- '14 sorry.
Yes I understand the question.
As I sit here today I would say it will be a lower number in '14 than in '13.
I also wanted to highlight the fact that we're continuing to look at opportunities and those opportunities have a -- an IRR calculation that goes along with them.
And if we think those are good opportunities we're going to try to take advantage of the fact we've mobilized contractors we've got engineering firms involved et cetera.
But as of right now I would model that a little bit lower in 2014.
LLC Research Division</strong> So closer to $200 million perhaps might be the right number then.
I just don't have specific numbers to give you Adam.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And just in HB can you tell us what is the percent completion on engineering drawings and the construction? John can you give a little color on that Yes.
Mill-wise we're probably in the 80% completion on mill drawings.
We're just basically taking everything to bid packages at this point: a little bit left on electrical but for the most part we're complete.
And that's the only piece that's open right? That's right.
It's mill design.
Ponds are done.
It's really just the mill design.
And as those are being completed we're going straight to contracts and straight to the field.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And lastly last quarter we went through quite a bit of technical detail on the East facility the LRIP and the DMF.
I just wonder if you could give us a little bit of an update.
I think there were some boilers we were waiting for.
And when we can expect to see improvements coming through on the Trio side of the mill? Yes Adam this is Dave.
The -- those time lines are very consistent.
So we've actually stabilized all the boiler activity right now through a rental boiler that we have.
It has a nice amount of additional capacity to it.
And frankly that hasn't been an issue for a period of time.
Those permanent installations will take place sometime during the second and third quarters.
There are 2 boiler units.
Let's see with regards to the Trio side as I mentioned earlier some of the redesign work was completed in the fourth quarter.
The first quarter has been about installing some of the changes that we've made in the plant design and I'd expect that we'll start to see the benefit of that.
And then frankly we are seeing the benefit of that today but hopefully we'll be able to show you that with demonstrable numbers here when we report on the first quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just any detail you can provide us on what changes you made? I mean I can give you a sense around some changes in the media preparation area in our magnetite recovery in just some product movement throughout the plant so that we increase reliability and runtime.
Fortunately they -- these weren't very large capital items but they're pretty important in terms of overall product movement recovery and continuous runtime.
The next question is from Ben Isaacson of Scotiabank.
Ben is on the road so this is Dean Groff stepping in.
You answered a lot of my question on the competitive landscape in the U.S.
market but maybe we'll look at another way.
What did your international weight look like this past quarter and in 2012? And where do you see that number moving in 2013? This is Dave.
One of the things that we've seen particularly on Trio and keep in mind that virtually 100% of our potash is sold domestically.
We do export some Trio product.
I think the -- what the 10-K will show is that over 2012 our export business is down relative to our domestic business.
I think we sold about 33% to 35% of our product into the export markets...
Of our Trio.
Of our Trio.
Thank you Bob.
We anticipate -- we're seeing a strong demand there so it's not a demand question.
Like Bob mentioned we've touched a lot of folks around the world on the Trio market.
We just needed to look at those markets where we thought we had good opportunities the markets that had the product type that we were producing.
So overall I expect that we'll probably see a little bit of a growth in that as we have more product available to us in 2013.
But if -- the positive there is that the international export pricing around Trio has strengthened just as it has here domestically.
And all of that is reflected in our numbers.
Okay.
Is that reflected in the margin you realized? No it's reflected in the revenue component of that without a doubt.
And to this point we haven't had a whole lot of product available to utilize the pelletization plant.
So it's been a -- really using that natural screening process to segregate the granular from the standard product.
So it's hard for me to answer the question that you're asking on that front.
But without a doubt it's I think we're placing those tons in the right markets.
Okay.
And that's sort of your tier products.
Which countries are they hitting predominantly? Kelvin do you want to answer that or...
We're a little bit sensitive to I guess laying out our marketing strategy.
But I think the reality is we're participating in the -- in Latin America.
We're participating in a number of other continents.
And I think we'll just maybe leave it at that.
The next question is from Ted Drangula of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Guys just one follow-up because I think we've had a pretty thorough discussion already.
I would just -- wanted to follow up on the HB ramping.
I guess as it begins later this year and in 2014 how we should think about the 150 000 to 200 000 kind of how that comes online I don't know over a 6- to 18-month period or something like that? Sure.
Thanks Ted.
And yes someone had asked that earlier but I forgot to answer that portion of the question.
We see a very very modest amount of product being produced this year.
Our timing on the mill is right now scheduled to be towards the end of November.
And that's going to be our -- the piece that's important for us to start seeing production.
So the benefit really starts to show in 2014.
Right now we're -- it's pretty wide range I'd say somewhere in that 100 000- to 150 000-ton range in '14.
And then I'd ramp that up to 150 000 to 200 000 in '15.
And then we start to be a little bit closer to that top-end range is the way I see that playing out.
There are no more questions at this time.
I'll turn the conference over to Mr.
Jornayvaz.
I want to thank everybody for their time.
The one thing we want to stress that we really didn't touch on a lot today is when you have a chance to go through the 10-K is to take a look at the increased reserves that we've been able to establish and focus on.
Dave with that being said is there anything you want to highlight? No.
I think that's it.
Thank you for your time and your attention.
And at this point we will wrap up the call.
Good morning and welcome to the Intrepid Potash 2013 First Quarter Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind everyone that this conference call is being recorded today Thursday May 2 2013 at 8:00 a.m.
Mountain Time.
It is my pleasure to turn the conference over to Gary Kohn Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Brock.
Good morning everybody and thank you for joining us on our First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Presenting on the call today are Bob Jornayvaz Executive Chairman of the Board; Dave Honeyfield President and Chief Financial Officer; and Kelvin Feist Senior Vice President of Sales and Marketing.
Also in the room with us today are Hugh Harvey Executive Vice Chairman of the Board; John Mansanti Senior Vice President of Operations; Martin Litt Executive Vice President and General Counsel; Brian Frantz Vice President of Finance and Chief Accounting Officer; and Ken Taylor Vice President of Business Development &amp; Research.
I would like to remind everyone that statements made on this call that are not historical facts or that express a belief expectation or intention including statements about financial and operational outlook are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the United States security laws.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance.
A number of assumptions which we believe are reasonable were made in connection with the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements.
The forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ from our expectations.
For more information with respect to the risks uncertainties and other factors which could cause our actual results to differ from our forward-looking statements we direct you to the news release we issued yesterday and the risk factors and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K that's filed with the SEC.
All forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by such factors.
Also during today's call we may reference certain non-GAAP financial measures including adjusted EBITDA adjusted net income and adjusted net income per diluted share which we believe provide useful information to investors.
Our earnings news release which is posted on our website at intrepidpotash.com includes reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures.
With that it's my pleasure to turn the call over to Bob.
Thanks Gary.
Good morning and welcome to everybody.
We appreciate your time and interest in Intrepid.
In the first quarter we delivered on the elements of the business that we can control.
We had healthy sales improved production lower unit costs.
We made great progress on our major capital projects.
As we've noted before we've taken a very deliberate approach to growing and diversifying our customer base in the markets we serve.
We are confident that our numerous product offerings marketing flexibility geographic advantage and the strong customer relationships that we've invested in and built over the long term position us to prosper even in the event of less than optimal market conditions.
Our first quarter sales results demonstrate this quite well.
We capitalized on the array of sales opportunities in our regional markets and despite the weather-related delays in spring applications we delivered healthy sales results for both potash and Trio.
On the operations front we continue to build on the momentum we established throughout 2012 at our East facility.
We saw the benefit of the execution of our long-term improvement plan with higher production and in lower per ton costs good sold for both potash and Trio.
At our East facility we produced 56% more tons of potash in the first quarter compared with the same period last year.
We achieved the highest Trio production results in the last 2 years.
In fact we improved Trio production 53% in the first quarter of 2012 to 46 000 tons.
While we still have work to do at East the benefit of our deliberate approach taken by our operations team is obvious when looking at our consolidated first quarter cash operating costs of the goods sold for potash and Trio.
Our cash operating costs of goods sold for potash was $174 per ton which represents an 11% improvement from the same period last year.
Through the increased Trio production we reduced our Trio cash operating cost of goods sold by 19% to $180 per ton.
These improvements at our East Facility on both the potash and Trio sides are a testament to the focused hard-working innovative and extremely determined folks we have here at Intrepid.
Another opportunity we have been investing in to expand our margin and increase cash flow is our HB Solar Solution Mine.
When in full production we will produce an incremental 150 000 to 200 000 tons of potash at an estimated cash operating cost of less than $80 per ton making HB one of the lowest cost potash facilities in North America.
We are confident that we can achieve this because of the long-term success we have achieved in combining solution mining with our solar evaporation in our Utah operations.
You have heard me say it before.
Simply put Intrepid has a long consistent track record of generating more cash to the bottom line for every ton of potash we sell than any of our North American competitors.
While some talk about their lower costs when factoring in diverse products proximity to markets royalties production taxes and higher net realized sales prices Intrepid consistently delivers more margin per ton.
We believe margin and the resulting cash flow are the most important aspects of a business.
Our 5-year track record of generating the highest margin is not an aberration.
It is us creating value over the long term by investing in our assets with a focus on the opportunities that lower our production cost per ton and by marketing our product in a responsible manner with a dedicated focus on achieving the highest average net realized sales prices in North America.
Now Kelvin Feist our Head of Sales and Marketing will update you on our sales results and market conditions.
Thanks Bob.
We sold 185 000 tons of potash in spite of the unfavorable weather conditions during the first quarter.
The sustained cooler temperatures and wet condition delayed planting and nutrient applications across the markets we serve.
This compares to the first quarter of 2012 when we saw much warmer conditions which allowed for an early start to spring planting and potash applications.
Weather patterns vary and impacts on our business -- impacts our business differently from year-to-year highlighting the importance of being flexible in our approach and to making investments in the relationships we have with our customers.
The buying patterns of our customers will have ups and downs.
The piece that we can control is making sure we are well positioned for the upcoming compressed time frame for nutrient application.
We are utilizing warehouse space and leveraging our close proximity to customers to sell our planned potash tonnage in the second quarter.
Our approach will allow us to respond quickly to serve our customers when the application window opens and the peaks in demand materialize.
While our customers are concerned about the recent weather most areas still have a positive outlook and expect a decent spring season.
It is always important to maintain perspective and the fact is that there's some strong pockets of activity in the United States.
The USDA corn planting estimate remains unchanged at 97 million acres in the U.S.
And even if this number decreases slightly we are still going to see a strong agriculture market in the United States and we are well positioned to meet the demand and to supply our customers.
In the near term we expect pricing to stay fairly stable.
I was particularly pleased with the results for our specialty product Trio in the first quarter.
The average net realized sales price of Trio increased by $49 to $351 per ton from the first quarter last year and was up an additional $4 per ton from this past fourth quarter.
We sold 39 000 tons compared to 28 000 tons a year ago.
We expect continued success with Trio in 2013 and plan to sell every ton we produce.
Thanks and I will now turn the call over to Dave.
Thanks Kelvin.
I am really pleased with our -- both our operational and our financial performance in the first quarter.
I attribute our achievements to our long-term disciplined approach to growing our business and increasing our production of lower cost tons all of which make it possible for us to deliver the highest all-in cash margin in North America.
We have shown the discipline to stay focused on the longer-term goals of our business.
This is critically important because the reality is that there will always be quarterly variations in our cost of goods sold due to production cycles the mix of sales from different -- our different facilities and the seasonal nature of the business.
What remains important to us is having a management team in place that expects and understands these variations having plans in place and flexibility in our operations and having the balance sheet and dedication to a long-term plan of growing production of lower cost tons and delivering the best margins in North America.
While Kelvin touched on the sales volume for the quarter I want to highlight the success we had on the pricing during the period.
We earned an average net realized sales price for potash of $417 a ton due to our strategic geographic advantage our diverse markets and our marketing abilities and in part to our discipline in converting the right opportunities in the market.
I also want to make sure people recognize the amount of margin beginning to be delivered on the sales of our Trio product.
This specialty product is delivering value to both Intrepid and to our customers.
We strive to lower cost of goods sold year-over-year and are making the right moves to obtain a positive trend as measured over time.
We're pleased with the improvements in the first quarter as a result of the increase production at East the solid results of our Utah operations which overcame some real challenges in January due to extreme cold weather and the consistent and reliable production from our West and our North facilities.
We finished the quarter with cash and investments totaling $7.6 million and we have not had to draw on our unsecured $250 million credit facility.
As expected we received $149.3 million in net proceeds from the funding of the senior notes in April.
Our cash flow balance sheet and access to long-term low-cost capital afford us the ability to grow our business and invest in essential capital projects.
Intrepid's capital projects are designed to drive flexibility growth and margin.
Our estimated capital invest -- our -- yes our estimated capital investments for 2013 remain steady in the range of $235 million to $285 million with the vast majority being invested in our 3 major capital projects.
The team made great progress in the first quarter with $64.2 million in total capital investment.
Looking forward and specific to the remaining investment for the HB Solar Solution Mine North Compaction and the third horizontal cavern system in Moab we expect that approximately $120 million to $130 million will be invested over the remainder of this year for these 3 projects.
As these 3 major projects either are completed or near completion and the related capital intensity decreases in the fourth quarter of this year we expect to reach an inflection point when cash flow from operations begins to exceed capital investment once again.
It's pretty impressive to see how the investment in the HB Solar Solution Mine continues to progress driven by the skill and teamwork of those working on this project.
The team is delivering against a very tight schedule.
To date we've completed the majority of the pond work.
We filled many of the ponds with brine and construction of the mill is in full swing.
We're optimistic about being able to begin processing through the mill and delivering first production late in the fourth quarter this year.
Additionally the team overseeing development of the new North Compaction plant is producing similar success.
We remain on schedule to have the first and second compaction lines in service in mid-2013 well in advance of the expected production from our HB Solar Solution Mine and the increased production from the existing West mine.
We're building this high-capacity and more efficient granulation facility so that we will have increased flexibility to produce the products that our customers want when they want them.
The flexibility we built into our operations allows us to target the highest margin sales.
It's probably worth noting that our comments tend to focus on these 3 major projects but I want to remind folks that we have a team of highly qualified people that are making good progress on a large number of other smaller-scale capital investments that include both sustaining and opportunity projects.
In closing we have a clear set of strategic priorities and are delivering on these.
The strength of our first quarter results and longer-term trends demonstrate our ability to lower costs over time increase production and drive sales by growing our markets.
We're off to a good start this year.
We are pleased to be delivering on our promises to shareholders.
We'll now open the lines for any questions.
[Operator Instruction] Our first question today comes from Mark Connelly of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> This is Kurt Schoen in for Mark.
I was hoping you could give us kind of an update on how you see the HB volumes ramping into 2014 and how you see the incremental low-cost tonnage ramping throughout the year as well.
Sure Mark -- or Kurt.
This is Dave.
What we're expecting is pretty moderate production in the fourth quarter this year like we talked about once the mill construction's complete.
And then next year what we're -- what we've said is that we should be somewhere in that maybe 100 000- 150 000-ton range next year.
Though there's obviously a little bit of seasonality around that based on the evaporation timing.
And then that ramps to 150 000 to 200 000 tons in 2015.
The cash operating cost that we talked about the $80 per ton that's what I'd put in there for 2015.
It may be a little bit higher in 2014 but it's still going to be significantly lower than what our average is here today.
So we'll really start to see the more significant benefit of that roll in beginning in 2014.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then with your access to low-cost capital what is your view on kind of maybe implementing a share repurchase here with the stock price where it is? I think the important part for us to keep track of right now is getting the capital deployed and getting these projects completed and that's really where the focus needs to be in making sure we keep the balance sheet very very strong.
I think there's a right time for us to look at what we do in terms of evaluating other potential investments whether we look at repurchases whether we look at dividend policy and it's probably as we get closer to wrapping up the HB and the North project.
So as of right now I don't know that I have anything from a policy perspective to talk through.
The next question comes from Vincent Andrews of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> This is Ted Drangula in for Vincent.
I had a I guess a follow-on on the HB expansion and it's kind of I guess a bigger-picture longer-term thing.
But as the HB Mine comes on with significant capacity and production in '14 and then you have competitors in Canada have projects.
There's the advanced coal [ph] mine coming on I guess the later part of '14 and into '15 and then brownfield in North America as well how do you guys look at in your long-term plan how the competitive dynamics shape up in North America? I mean I assume that we're not going to have a lot of growth in the market here.
I'm just curious how that -- how you think that might play out over the next several years.
Ted this is Dave.
I'll start on it and Robert Kelvin if you guys want to jump in too please do.
Overall Ted what we see is in the North American market there is some growth to it.
And I think that's something that we need to recognize as you continue to see more corn acres planted you see expansion in the Dakotas and such.
And without a doubt it's a -- one of the best markets to be in and it represents our backyard markets.
I think as we look to grow I think we need to keep the size of that growth which is very significant to Intrepid.
But recognize that it's not a huge component of overall North America and certainly the world capacity.
Certainly the additional capacity that's coming on in Canada is very focused on serving China India Brazil some of those markets which at some point you're just going to have to -- I think we're going to see that increase in demand come.
So we look really at our customer relationships and finding the right locations to work with our customers and we feel confident that we'll be able to get those tons in the right markets.
This is Bob Ted.
I just want to add to that that we have very consistently and strategically increased our geographic footprint over the last several years and expanded our customer base while still maintaining our high net realized sales price.
So we've done that in a very focused fashion in terms of the customer relationships that we've created and being able to slowly add more tons in a more diverse geographic footprint we've already begun and we'll continue to slowly expand.
But we think that we can bring on our tons as we have done and not necessarily impact the marketplace by continuing to build extremely strong customer relationships with not only our railroad relationships our trucking relationships and our ability to get into the marketplace in a nondisruptive fashion by delivering just-in-time inventory and incredible -- some of the best products in the United States -- in North America on a just-in-time basis.
Research Division</strong> And I guess switching from the big picture long term more to the I guess near term and how the second quarter plays out.
I mean it sounds like -- versus where we might have thought the second quarter playing out a few months ago that April is probably slower due to weather and then are you guys looking at maybe more concentrated sort of I wouldn't call it craziness but a very rapid moving May and maybe a typical sort of June versus a normal year? I mean is that how you guys would shape it up? And I guess the -- overall do you feel like -- that your volume outlook for the first half where you stand now is no different than where it might have been 3 months ago? Ted this is Dave.
I think you describe it right that it's going to be a pretty darn rapid season when we see those breaks in the weather.
And what we look at is if the ability of a farmer to get a crop in and to get their fertilizer down it's measured in days and weeks.
Now it's not measured in kind of 6 to 8 weeks sort of time frames.
Guys own all their own spreading equipment so they're not waiting in line for their turn.
You see the warehouse system having been built up in larger markets.
We've worked very closely with our customers to make sure we've got tons in position and we probably have more tons in that situation right now than we have.
So I think we're really well positioned for it.
And like Kelvin touched on there are some pockets of strength in the U.S.
markets that are continuing to move forward.
So I think we're in pretty good shape on that.
And -- but I think you described it right.
I think it's going to -- when it goes it's going to go very very quickly.
And that's going to put some strain on the system which oftentimes ends up really being a benefit for us because you see a few more trucks move and I think that we kind of see it as an opportunity.
The next question comes from Adam Samuelson of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Maybe first just continuing on the discussion about spring.
I mean how has the weather if at all in the kind of this really slow developing April impacted any of your dealer behaviors if at all? And any particular region where there's more or less concern about the planting delays? Any  color there would be helpful.
Yes Adam it's Kelvin here.
I think there's a number of things going on.
First of all the top of mind is the -- some of the flooding going on in the Midwest and that's obviously concerning and delaying things there.
The customer base is very resilient today and they still believe that they're going to see most of those acres.
So I would say generally speaking they're pretty comfortable concerned I guess if we continue to see these patterns of weather.
But if we can get a dry window here the believe is that they're still seed a lot of corn and have a pretty successful spring.
So we've got a couple of other regions.
We're still relatively dry through the Texas Panhandle and up through Kansas and Colorado.
Would love to see some of that moisture get spread around a little bit.
But the reality is that one's delayed and that some of that's more cold-weather related.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
Sorry...
No we're pretty comfortable that we're going to see a decent amount of corn go in the ground.
I think the USDA forecast is a little strong.
We're probably 3 million below that today somewhere in that 94 million acres.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just a follow-up on Trio I think you've seen some solid improvement on the cost side and the volume performance this quarter was good.
Maybe just a little bit more color on kind of where we are in the deployment of the LRIP program and future key milestones that you're watching for.
And then finally I just -- maybe some clarification on the differences in the Trio guidance.
There's a reference in the press release to selling basically ton that you have Trio but the production -- the high end of the production guidance is above the high end of sales guidance so I just want to understand that more clearly.
Sure.
Adam this is Dave.
On the Trio plant I feel like we're -- we've made some pretty significant steps on that.
We really started to see the benefit in the first quarter like you saw in the numbers.
On the -- there's still some things we need to do and the real benefit of starting to see the improved production is we now have a little bit more product that we can use to start doing what I would consider to be really that commissioning phase on the pelletizer component of the business.
And that pellet product is a highly desired product in the market that we need to get comfortable with that part of the manufacturing cycle and that's a little bit of why you see those numbers be a little bit different right now as we recognize that we've got some work to do in that regard.
And the pellet product is going to be where we really see that next opportunity on the Trio plant.
That being said like Kelvin touched on the market demand is very good and you see that really in the pricing.
It's been a -- that's a real success story wherein you look back a year ago and pricing was what $302 a ton in the first quarter of 2012 and now we're at $351 a ton.
So I think that's pretty demonstrative of the demand that's in the market.
Yes.
I just want to reemphasize how positive it is that we haven't used the pelletizer.
We've been able to sell our standard at very high margins.
We've been able to sell all of our natural granular at very high margins.
So we haven't had to use our pelletizer.
So now we have the chance to add even more margin and we now have -- we're going to make standard product available to us to run the pelletizers.
So the positive part of that is that we were able to sell everything at a much higher price and we're going to continue to implement the pieces that allow us continue that margin.
Research Division</strong> And on that point I mean is there a timeline for when you think that that's online? And roughly speaking what do you think the price premium the pellet product versus standard grade would garner in the marketplace? This is Dave.
On the timeline component I think you're just going to see us continuing to improve that over the course of the year.
There is a little bit of art that goes along with the science of running a pelletizer because you're blending in a starch and you've got to deform these pellets and it's just going to take a little bit of trial and error to get through there.
The guys are -- we've staffed that in a way that we have dedicated folks to it.
We've got manufacturers reps that are on site and now is the time when we're ready to do that.
So I think we're just going to see steady improvement on that really throughout the year is the way I would describe it.
And Kelvin if you wouldn't mind touching on a little bit of what you see on the market side on Trio that'd be great.
Yes.
I think in terms of the premium specifically we're targeting markets that are close to the plant that brings us a better net back and there is a bit of a premium to our natural granular there.
But you're right.
We have some real strong demand not only the U.S.
but also in the international markets and I don't see that decreasing.
The reality is people see value in the magnesium and the sulfate in that product and in all markets and we certainly continue to see that demand as a result.
So I don't see anything changing here in these next few quarters.
The next question comes from Chris Perella of BoA Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Could you just elaborate a bit more on the total potash COGS guidance for the second quarter? I see they're coming in a bit higher than last year and your shipment volume is probably up year-over-year.
Sure Chris.
This is Dave.
The piece that we continue to try emphasize is the cash margin component and I think that's where we've seen that very significant improvement.
I think sometimes we're -- I think the number you're probably looking at is -- includes DD&amp;A which obviously is going to be a reflection of some of the significant capital investment that's been put in place.
I think the piece that we keep trying to drive folks to is our operation in the plant and the resulting improvements in what we're generating in terms of future cash flows is really really what we're trying to make sure folks are keeping a close eye on.
So we talked a little bit about that cash flow generation relative to capital expenditure and moving towards that situation in the fourth quarter where we start to become very free cash flow driven.
But all that's possible because of 2 things: One we're starting to see the intensity on CapEx come down a little bit; and we're seeing the cash flows driven by control over operating cost and the benefit of the capital investment start to have a bigger impact quarter-over-quarter.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And shifting gears I guess to the market outlook and pricing.
Some of the benchmark pricing has come in a little bit on soft April.
Do you expect pricing to improve in May and June on increased demand? And is that going to net out to about flat pricing quarter-over-quarter in the second quarter? Yes I think the pricing piece is going to be -- it's something obviously we're keeping a very close eye on.
I think you're right to recognize that there's been a little bit of maybe softening that gets reported in the market.
We see pricing being relatively steady through the spring here.
And that means that it's going to be $5 plus or minus $10 plus or minus where we saw in the first quarter.
I think within a band there's going to be a fairly low amount of volatility really that exists right now.
Kelvin I don't know if you have anything to add to that.
I think that's right.
Short term here so long as we get into the field and get going here it'll abate some of that nervousness that's out there.
But right now we're not seeing a whole bunch of activity on the price side and that's positive there.
Everyone still plans to supply the amount of potash that's required and people aren't getting too antsy yet.
So what happens beyond that is really it's a pretty cloudy picture right now.
But we got to get through the spring season before we start thinking about any bill or anything like that.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And just one quick question with the spike in natural gas prices recently have you seen any material demand improvements to drilling rig customers? We're seeing pretty steady activity on the industrial side.
What was interesting last year towards the I don't know kind of middle of the early part of the fourth quarter is a lot of the E&amp;P companies had spent through their CapEx budget and started laying down rigs.
And everyone's budget shows them starting to get back up to business January 1.
The reality is that it tends to take a little bit more time.
So that being said our industrial business has been very consistent kind of quarter-over-quarter year-over-year.
So I think the opportunity there is positive in terms of increased demand as programs get more into their full swing through the spring summer and fall.
Yes.
The other thing is that we always do see a lag between a bump in the price of natural gas and rigs getting -- having -- standing up.
So I think there is always going to be a slight time lag between April standing up rigs and price of natural gas.
The next question comes from Joel Jackson of BMO Capital Markets.
I wanted to follow up on one of the prior questions here just on costs again specifically on the cash cost because you seem to be able to reconcile your guidance for Q2 and the full year.
It would seem to suggest that your cash costs for potash will go up in Q2 and then come down in the second half of the year.
Whereas for Trio it looks like they may come down in the second quarter and go up in the second half.
Can you talk about that a bit? Joel this is Dave.
I think what I'd ask you to do is really -- if you go back and look over the last year 2 years 3 years what you see is that there is variability quarter-to-quarter okay that results in COGS.
And it's one of the things that I was trying to highlight in our comments is that's a result of production cycles.
It's a result of sales mix whether you've got more tons that particular quarter or that particular month coming out of Utah or coming out of the East Facility.
And so getting -- I wouldn't get too dug in on each individual quarter.
What I would tend to look at is what does that trend look like over time.
And I think if you look at that trend over the last couple of years what you'll see is that Intrepid has I think done a pretty darn good job of keeping those cash costs at least flat and starting to move them down.
If you look at what's going on at Mosaic if you look at what's going on at PotashCorp you see cash costs having -- tending to have increased.
And then when you look at what we see coming up with really increased volumes through better production at East the ability to start bringing on the volumes from HB I think we're going to be one of those unique companies that is increasing volumes and decreasing cost over time.
So I would expect some variability and I would stay pretty focused on that year-over-year trend and that year-over-year trend is very very positive.
I mean even when you don't -- there's not a whole lot of HB coming in this year.
So this is very real cost control and very real operating efficiency that we're driving through the business.
And on the depreciation can you give a little bit of quantitative guidance just sort of how depreciation is going to step up maybe in the second half of this year maybe '14 as HB comes on and some of the other projects? Yes we expect to see a little bit but I think you can look at the -- kind of the year-over-year all-in COGS pieces to see what the impact of that is and kind of average that in.
It shouldn't be too much more than it is right now but we will have fair amounts of capital coming into the system.
So that's already included in our full year numbers and I think fairly reflective.
Okay.
And finally what sort of competition if any have you really seen on the river this spring from maybe some import product from Russia and the Israeli sources get a sense of that please? Yes.
Joel it's Kelvin here.
We are seeing a little bit more activity probably as the new entrants are more Canadian tons that we're seeing there.
But we're also seeing some Israeli and some Russian materials there.
Is it more competitive? I guess the river's always competitive.
So we tend to -- we saw it a little bit there but we try not to put all our eggs in that basket.
So that's always -- new earnings will be the low point in potash returns for us and for the entire market.
So we try not to spend a lot of time over in that area.
If I recall there is a little bit less Russian product last year.
Are you suggesting a little bit more this year than last? Well I guess I can't speak to how much they're going to put on the river.
What we know is there's products from a number of sources there and available to folks and we know that that's a very competitive market.
And one thing that has changed though Joel is that you've seen over the last couple of years a very intentional effort by particularly Mosaic and PotashCorp to some degree to frankly make it harder for some of those import tons to come up the river because the warehouse space a lot of that's already been secured.
So I think we see that a little bit as well and I think it really makes the folks from Russia and the folks from -- or the Israeli and the Russian tons just think a little bit about okay how I am going to have to move these tons? What's going to happen? How much should I bring in? But I think in some ways that's a positive in terms of what those dynamics look like.
Once again Joel just to add the change that we see in potential tons year-over-year is measured in tens of thousands of tons not hundreds of thousands of tons.
So in the aggregate we see a consistent number of tons coming in from the Russians and the Israelis over the last 10 to 15 years and the delta is really quite small.
When you look at the change.
So we just -- we've answered this question over many years and we just don't see any significant change.
And the increased or decreased amount of tons tends to be quite small.
The next question comes from Andrew Dunn of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> You touched a little bit on this earlier started to but in previous quarters you've mentioned that at the dealer level they're really opting for just in time.
Are you continuing -- did you continue to see that trend in the quarter and kind of currently? Or do you get the sense that maybe they're taking some inventory now? Andrew this is David and Kelvin if you wouldn't mind jumping in here too.
I think overall we see that as having some degree of permanence to it like we've described before.
A lot of the agreements that we hear about that are in the industry are multi-year type agreements.
And this is the time of year where people have worked pretty hard to get tons close to the market.
So I think it's a pretty logical assumption that dealers are looking for ways to not have to put a lot of working capital to work.
But the other piece of a kind of a fairly steady pricing market right now is they also want to make sure they're not going to miss those opportunities.
Like we touched on when the windows open things are going to go pretty darn quick.
So guys are looking to be willing to make sure they've got inventory on hand in their own system as well.
Andrew maybe I'll just chime in a little bit.
It's Kelvin here.
Generally customers will enter the spring season with pretty full bins of all fertilizers.
I think the real question is how much recharge or is there any recharge here during the spring season and then if we need to fill behind that.
So those are the pieces and I guess we're ready for that peak demand and I guess just patiently waiting for the season to get going.
Research Division</strong> And then you've talked a little bit about imports from outside North America but if you look at the commentary for some of the -- from some of the other North American competitors and they're talking about their export volumes starting to look healthier and their outlook seems to be a little more positive in that sense are you seeing any kind of tangible benefits from that currently in your markets? Or do you expect to kind of see some as your volumes increase going forward? I think that's a key part of the business strategy for some of the other North American producers.
And when you're -- when product is moving at decent clips like it is right now I think what we see is just an overall improved health in the potash market.
And I think that's really going to be the -- one of the pieces that is important as that they'll become a little bit better I don't know approach to that international marketing piece to continue that flow because that's really where a lot of the Canadian investment has been focused is on serving that international market.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then just one last question looking a little farther out I mean obviously you've mentioned several times as has others that we're expecting a record corn crop this season.
But I've also heard that it's the case with stocks being very high that there may be some backlash in the following season.
Is that something that you're looking at or concerned about at all? Or do you anticipate that for example even if that were the case you'd be able to offset with the efforts you've been taking to grow your customer base and maybe take a little share in the domestic market here? I guess the thing that I would like to remind people is that we represent about 10% of the United States market in terms of consumption.
And so our ability to have diverse markets to have already expanded geographic footprint to build strong relationships to have created warehousing opportunities to have made -- created relationships with the railroads the trucking companies the percentage of market that we represent we just don't think we're going to have an impact on the overall market.
And we believe we're going to continue to be able to exhibit as we've done so consistently our ability to put our tons in the market at higher prices because of the diverse products and our ability to deliver the highest-quality product now in the United States on a just-in-time basis.
So we see it but given the percentage of the market that we represent we think we have very very strong opportunities to continue to perform as we have.
The next question comes from Bill Carroll of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Following on an earlier question related to inventory levels inventories across North American potash producers remain stubbornly high if you compare those levels to 5-year averages.
But if we do get this more of a permanence to just-in-time ordering behavior then do these longer-term averages remain less meaningful? And then how do we get a better handle on inventories in the system? Bill I think that's a key question and it's one that I know I personally have theorized that the overall inventory levels really are not that different.
It's just the fact they're being captured on someone else's balance sheet and in a different reporting.
Whereas if that inventory was on a dealer's balance sheet before it wasn't captured in those North American statistics.
So in some ways I think we've actually got better clarity today in the overall numbers.
I think the -- we started to see inventories come down a little bit in April.
I think the export business or the international business by the Canadians I mean that's 95-plus percent of those inventory numbers to be realistic.
And a big chunk of that is probably standard product that's going into those -- some of those larger markets.
So it'd be great if we had some clarity on whether or not that was standard or whether or not that was granular because I think that would give a better clue of what markets that product would be directed towards.
But my sense is that the averages probably still are going to have some meaning to them.
I think we just have to put it in context of what's going on with the overall market like I think you're kind of pointing towards.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then can you share some -- what some of the major financial covenants are for the new debt offering and remind us of those for the existing revolver? Sure.
There are 2 major covenants.
One is a basically a coverage test and those are numbers -- so I'm trying to remember the numbers off the top of my head on that right now Brian.
What's the leverage? Yes So the leverage test is a 3.0 and then the financial coverage is below 5 isn't it? Yes.
And when we look at our stress tests on those bill there we look at those very closely and we're not interested in getting near them.
I think that the piece that's helpful is they're the same exact covenants in our revolver as it is on our -- on the senior notes.
And the way we designed the senior notes is that that will have the ability to float if we're able to renegotiate on the revolver for more liberal terms.
The senior notes will float automatically with that.
The next question comes from Michael Hoffman of Wunderlich.
Research Division</strong> On free cash flow as it turns positive you historically used to generate somewhere between $0.08 and $0.10 of revenues before the big capital spending wave.
How do we think about where that cash goes back to once you start turning positive again? Mike this is Dave.
We're looking at that very closely and part of it is really developing and linking back in with one of the earlier questions.
I expect we'll still continue to have a level of capital investment that represents investments in sustaining.
There continue to be a number of great opportunity projects that we're going to look at within our business and look at ways to partner with customers with others around ways to create value upgrades for our products.
But we want to make sure we've got the balance sheet to do that.
And what we're really looking at is is there a way to balance cash flow capital reinvestment and look at is there a component of that cash flow generation that is available for any number of activities whether it be like we've talked about before is there a dividend? Is there a buyback? Are there other investments? So I don't know if it's a static number.
It's one that I think there's a right balance and as I look into 2014 I would say our CapEx is probably going to be somewhere around $150 million.
Obviously we haven't gone through the budgeting process in detail for 2014.
But knowing what's on our future I think that's a realistic number.
So I think that gives you a sense of when you build in the models and the projections around HB and such kind of what the capacity is for free cash flow generation.
And Michael I'd just like to remind that you and I continue to be the 2 largest shareholders of Intrepid so that we're totally aligned with our shareholder base in terms of returning cash to shareholders and making capital decisions versus distribution decisions and that we have great alignment in terms of the significant inside ownership that we have in this company.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's great.
And then is there a point or can you share with us your view of this a point where it becomes too late to plant? It's Kelvin here Michael.
I guess we don't see that scenario.
I would say that we've got such an efficiency at the field level today that folks don't need very many days and they can get the millions of acres done.
Obviously we're lagging behind the 10-year average and certainly if you look at last year everyone's concerned if you're comparing year-on-year.
The reality is if we get a window of a few days we'll get that seed in the ground and we'll get moving.
We do need some favorable weather to get that done but it will happen.
It's a matter of if its 2 weeks away or 3 weeks away.
Yes once again Dave touched on a little bit earlier in the call is that the -- some of the fundamentals in the agricultural industry have changed in terms of the farmer and their ownership of equipment their ability to use their own equipment to get their crop in the ground.
They're not renting equipment anywhere near the way they used to so there aren't scheduling issues so that when that weather window does occur a farmer has the ability because he generally owns his equipment to get things in the field much much quicker.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So in theory we can get us to the very tail end of May and still get all this corn in if you we get a window? Absolutely.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the dealer side I know you've probably told me this a million times.
I apologize for forgetting.
But what percent of your business goes through dealers versus going direct? Maybe you can ask that question a little bit different Michael because I'm not sure if I -- you mean direct to a farm? We don't really sell direct to the farm.
Research Division</strong> Well direct to the -- as opposed to having to use a middleman I mean some of bigger cooperative farms the larger users? Or is this all going -- all having to work its way through that middleman to get to the farmer? Yes.
Michael it's Kelvin.
I -- in terms of how we distribute our focus is to sell it to if you want to call it a middleman retail whatever you want to call that.
They typically will blend it add some value through some of their equipment whatever else and then typically sell it to a farmer or to a ma-and-pa dealer at the next level.
So we don't sell directly to large corporate farms or small corporate farms -- or small farms.
That just doesn't fit with our model and our number of people in the field.
Well I think that brings us to the end of today's call.
We just want to thank everybody for your time and your interest in Intrepid.
And Brock if you want to we can probably close the call now.
Thank you sir.
Thank you everyone for your participation.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Good morning and welcome to the Intrepid Potash 2013 Second Quarter Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind everyone that this conference is being recorded today Thursday August 1 2013 at 8 a.m.
Mountain Time.
It is my pleasure to turn the conference over to Gary Kohn Vice President Investor Relations.
Mr.
Kohn please go ahead.
Thanks Brock.
Good morning.
Thank you all for joining us for our second quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
Presenting on the call today are Bob Jornayvaz Executive Chairman of the Board; Dave Honeyfield President and Chief Financial Officer; and Kelvin Feist Senior Vice President of Sales and Marketing.
Also in the room with us today are John Mansanti Senior Vice President of Operations; Martin Litt Executive Vice President and General Counsel; Brian Frantz Vice President of Finance and Chief Accounting Officer; and Ken Taylor Vice President of Business Development and Research.
I would like to remind everyone that statements made on this call are not -- that are not historical facts or that express a belief expectation or intention including statements about our financial and operational outlook are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the United States securities laws.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance.
A number of assumptions which we believe are reasonable were made in connection with the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements.
The forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ from our expectations.
For more information with respect to the risks uncertainties and other factors which could cause our actual results to differ from our forward-looking statements we direct you to the news release we issued yesterday and the risk factors and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K as filed with the SEC.
All forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by such factors.
Also during today's call we may reference certain non-GAAP financial measures including adjusted EBITDA adjusted net income and adjusted net income per diluted share which we believe provide useful information to investors.
Our earnings news release which is posted on our website at intrepidpotash.com includes reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures.
I will now turn the call over to Bob.
Thanks Gary.
Good morning and welcome to everyone.
I know that Uralkali news is on everyone's mind.
So let me take a moment to address it.
First we appreciate your understanding of our quiet period and your patience in waiting to hear from us.
We're all well aware of this decade-old rivalry amongst these large Russian producers that seem to erupt from time-to-time and influences the market.
Our sense is that it may take some time for the dust to settle from this most recent public airing of their differences.
In the meantime Intrepid remains well positioned to prosper regardless of how this all shakes out.
First Hugh and I have managed and thrive through $0.50 natural gas $9 crude oil and $80 potash.
We've seen adversity and recognized it for the opportunity it provides.
We're not pollyannaish about today's realities but we're prepared for them.
We're experienced and hardened by previous similar times and once again are ready to prosper from the current confusion and fear.
Second we have the distinct advantage of participating in a local market.
Third we benefit from our ability to produce low cash cost tons from our existing and in-development Solar Solution Mines.
This advantage is all the more critical in the event of increased pricing pressure.
The additional low cash cost tons we're bringing online from our HB project could not be coming at a better time.
Fourth we have a very solid balance sheet and a capital structure that provides us with a great deal of flexibility.
This did not happen by accident.
We're prepared for this situation.
In the event we need it we also have access to our currently undrawn $250 million credit facility.
Finally and very importantly our capital investment will decrease significantly after the third quarter as the major projects wrap up.
Going into the fourth quarter and 2014 we have a great deal of flexibility around our capital investment without having to delay any necessary upgrades or projects.
Rest assured that we have and we'll continue to develop contingency plans around any number of outcomes from this most recent development in the world potash market as Intrepid has proven time after time.
Throughout our history we have remained profitable and committed to our long-term strategy during a wide array of economic and competitive cycles.
We have a solid foundation from which to operate that including significantly modernized plants a solid balance sheet and capital structure and the ability to strengthen our cash margin and cash flow.
For more than a decade we've been transforming our old outdated facilities to modern built-to-last facilities.
Our 3 distinct goals in making these investments were to drive growth of lower cash cost tons create flexibility and to increase cash margin opportunities and cash flow.
We are just a few quarters away from completing this transformation and concluding the construction of our major capital projects.
As we cross the finish line entering 2014 what is truly compelling is that we begin to realize the benefits of having come through the transformation.
The complexity of this transformation has been immense.
The activities have involved every facility and touched nearly every employee.
Please keep in mind that all this activity was happening concurrently with the operating teams stewarding the old plants to the point where they're either going to be decommissioned or the upgrades were completed.
The combination of our HB Solar Solution Mine the West facility and our North Compaction projects is very powerful in their ability to produce incremental tons lower our cash cost create higher margin opportunities and increase our marketing flexibility.
We have invested heavily in our milling and refining processes at West to increase throughput significantly and to increase recovery systems well beyond the original capabilities.
These investments in the mill were made to complement the investments we made in the West mine that increase the amount of ore being brought to the surface.
The result of this integrated investment and process refinement is going to be record amounts of material being recovered at West and being sent to North for compaction.
We're developing a plant that is better suited over the long run to handle more variability in our ore as we continue to expand into the area we are mining.
At HB we have most of the pond work done and we have 15 of the 18 ponds filled with brine.
Construction on the processing plant is progressing nicely so we expect to produce our first tons before year end.
All this activity is leading to the ramp-up of more meaningful tons in 2014 as we work towards full production.
It is gratifying to see this multi-year project coming online as we draw closer to replicating our successes at Moab and Wendover on a much larger scale.
At the North site we will use state-of-the-art compactors to handle more efficiently all of the materials being produced at West and HB.
Importantly these new compactors as we have seen in Moab and Wendover can process a wide array of material including the previously difficult to handle fine material.
This new facility will be more efficient more reliable and give us the ability to be more flexible in our marketing and production mix to deliver an even higher quality product.
We are ever so close to being through this transition.
At this point we've just a few short quarters to go in the final stages of the commissioning process of the last 2 major capital projects and recognize that these next 2 quarter will see some variations and we expect some reductions in our production rates because of the recurring starts and stops that occurs during the process of implementing the upgrades.
I can say emphatically however that I now see all of this hard work and effort coming together fine.
I'm excited to get to the finish line and enter 2014 confident that we have built an even stronger company.
I'd like to remind you that none of these projects are online as we speak nor are they reflected in our current cost structure.
As it comes on you're going to see Intrepid produce much lower cost tons.
Now Kelvin Feist our Head of Sales and Marketing will update you on our sales results and market conditions.
Thanks Bob.
Despite the limited demand caused by the compressed spring season we were able to sell 184 000 tons of potash in the second quarter.
Our ability to sell all of our production in the quarter was a direct result of how well we positioned ourselves and our product for the shortened season.
Through our strong customer relationships we effectively utilized warehouse space and benefited from having our production facilities being in close proximity to the end markets.
As we look to the fall we see ourselves as well positioned to benefit from a number of positive potash demand trends taking shape.
First farmers will need to replenish the potassium levels in the soil that are being depleted during this growing season.
Second farmer economics remain favorable specifically potash pricing relative to commodity prices even with the recent decreases in corn price.
Third farmers who typically do not apply potash in the fall may consider this option to balance workload and remove the risk of missing the application window next spring.
We have all seen that potash pricing has been trending down in recent weeks as reflected in the summer fill announcements.
Based on recent sales activity and the Uralkali news we foresee some downward pressure continuing as we fill out our order book with fall demand through the second half of 2013.
We continue to be advantaged by being able to sell what we produce annually.
We have a comfortable level of granular inventory which will allow us to meet our customers' needs this fall.
We're excited about the new HB production and North Compaction plant.
We're already working hard to ensure that we have the relationships needed to place these new tons from our HB Solar Solution Mine.
We're seeing early signs of success here and an encouraging degree of receptiveness in the market.
As we've said before the state-of-the-art compaction plant at North will create flexibility for us to compact up to 100% of the HB and West production which will allow us to pursue the highest margin sales opportunities.
We will also further improve customer satisfaction by delivering a higher-quality product into the marketplace.
All in all we are confident that farmers will farm customers will buy fertilizer and Intrepid will be successful in selling all of our potash.
Thanks and I will now turn the call over to Dave.
Thanks Kelvin.
There are several highlights in the second quarter that are worth noting.
On the potash side we produced 182 000 tons an increase of 7% over last year's second quarter.
The strong production results drove a cash operating cost of goods sold per ton of $186 in line with our expectations.
For the first half of this year cash operating cost per ton equaled $180 which is 4% better than the first half of 2012.
The results for Trio continued to improve from the work we've done to optimize the plant and bring it closer to its design capacity.
We produced 50 000 tons in the quarter which is more than 80% of the maximum quarterly output and an improvement of more than 50% from last year's second quarter.
We lowered our cash operating cost per ton by 14% to $177 per ton.
We sold 35 000 tons at an average net realized sales price of $359 per ton which is up year-over-year and sequentially yet again.
We are very pleased to see these results particularly the strong cash margin and cash flow contributions affirming our decision to make the investment to produce and sell this high-value specialty product.
Balance sheet strength capital structure and effective use of long-term low-cost capital continue to be essential components of our overall strategy.
At quarter end we had cash in investments totaling $129 million.
And to-date we have not drawn on our unsecured $250 million credit facility.
The results this quarter include 3 items that are somewhat isolated that we've detailed in the reconciliations of net income and earnings per share in the earnings release.
The net effect of these 3 items was a $1.4 million reduction of net income or $0.02 reduction in earnings per share.
We have made great progress and are nearing completion on our major capital investment projects.
Bringing the new elements into service at West requires that we stop and start the plant more than we would in a normal operating environment.
As such it's become clear that this will impact our production rates over the next 2 quarters as reflected in our updated outlook.
We expect that this will result in a higher cash operating cost of goods sold per ton for potash in the back half of the year which is mostly driven by this variability in our production forecast.
As we look to 2014 cash operating cost per ton will begin to come down again as production increases.
The payoff which will be realized quickly as we enter 2014 is increased production lower cash operating cost per ton and a plant that is more efficient and stable over the long term.
In light of the market's singular focus on production cost relative to reset pricing it's important to remind people that we currently operate 2 solution mines Wendover and Moab with a cash operating cost that is in the lowest quartile of cash cost per ton.
Our West plant is in the middle of the pack; and East from a potash-only perspective is our highest cost facility.
That however ignores the meaningful margin and cash flow contributions I described earlier with our production in Trio from East.
The other compelling part of the equation is that we are bringing on significantly more tons from HB at a cash cost that will be in the $80 per ton range.
This is happening at a time when most if not all of the expansion projects of other producers will be canceled because the cost per ton just does not make sense.
So we seem to be painted with a very broad brush as a high-cost producer but that's just not the case.
This is a discussion about individual minds rather than a discussion about entire companies.
We believe that we're at the cusp of delivering on our plan and we're looking forward to having a more singular focus on operations as these major capital projects are completed.
Our strategy remains straightforward pursuing the opportunities that increase our production and lower our cash cost per ton marketing our products in a responsible manner focusing on our relationships with our customers and achieving the highest average net realized sales prices in North America.
Thus at this point we're ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today comes from Vincent Andrews of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Have you had -- or have your customer conversations changed at all maybe it's too early in last couple of days but are customers still willing to take fall ton to the current price or are they concerned that that price is going to go lower? Any changing about their willingness to take product on price? Or how is that conversation evolving so far? We're going to let Kelvin answer that.
Thanks Vince.
Sure Vincent.
Yes I think it's a little bit early to be able to tell you exactly how this is going to go.
We're having conversations with those folks.
We had settled on a summer or a fall-fill program.
And I guess today there's a number of things that are up in the air.
So we're going to continue to ship.
I guess our sense is that it's a wait-and-see approach to where the thing settles out today once this thing all comes and gets figured out.
Research Division</strong> And maybe just as a follow-up keeping in mind what you said about your different mine type different COGS profile in the event over the next say 6 or 12 months if there's a period of time where potash prices go below the cost of production at a particular mine how would you think about the way you would operate that mine? Yes.
I mean we've got a long way to go to get there.
And so -- I mean we have contingency plans for just about everything that we need to be thinking about.
As we ramp up our langbeinite -- I mean let's not forget that the Wendover facility has been in continuous operation since 1932.
So it's seen lots of difficult times.
Moab has been in continuous operation since 1962.
Our West mine has been in continuous operation since 1932 as well.
And our East mine is probably -- well it is our highest cost facility but as we continue to ramp up the langbeinite and improve the sylvite recovery systems over there we're a long way away from getting there.
So we have a contingency for everything.
We understand where each facility fits in.
The good news is that the HB will be producing tons at a very very low cost.
We just don't envision this disagreement between these Russian producers as being any different than the previous disagreements that we've seen from them.
I think what we've seen lacking in some of the papers written is the historical perspective that this disagreement among these guys has been going on for decades.
Slightly different players but it's been the same argument.
And every time it's provided an opportunity for those of us that have facilities to add.
So we look at it a little bit differently having lived through commodity cycles and commodity disruptions.
As I said earlier you and I have thrived since $9 crude oil $0.50 natural gas and $80 potash.
So we tend to view this more as an opportunity.
It is adversity.
We're not pollyannaish about it.
But we have contingency plans for it and we're ready for it.
The next question comes from Mark Connelly of the CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
Your CapEx plans over the next couple of years include a lot of small stuff that from previous conversations sounds very discretionary.
Can you give us a sense of what and how discretionary the 2014 and '15 numbers are? Sure.
Do you want to get your other question in there too Mark or do you want to...
Research Division</strong> Sure.
The other question was just an update on East.
Are the operational improvements there complete? I'm just curious where the productivity is relative to where you expect it to get.
Yes.
Going to the CapEx question I think that's a fundamental part of the overall discussion here.
And when we look at the major capital projects what you have to keep in mind is that cash is in the bank to complete those.
We expect that the bulk of that capital will be deployed here over the third quarter and the remaining portion of that in the fourth quarter.
And you hit it right on the head Mark that there is an incredible amount of flexibility and discretion that is involved with our capital plans going forward.
So you combine that with the balance sheet that we have you combine that with our ability to flex the operations where we need to and I think people really need to take that into consideration when they're considering Intrepid in the overall capital investment scheme.
We had talked about last quarter that we would see that capital probably come down to that $150 million level.
The world changed a couple of days ago and the good news is is that we have the ability to change that quite dramatically.
And you're going to see a much lower capital number going forward.
The good news of that as I touched on earlier is it provides our operating guys a singular focus on optimizing our operations and I think we're seeing that.
And kind of weaving into your next question on East when we have given our guys the opportunity to do that what we're seeing at East on the langbeinite recovery side is very strong performance and we recognize that it takes a little bit of time to bring those new plants online as demonstrated here.
But what we're seeing and what I expect to see is that we're going to be hitting those design rates.
So yes all that is a very positive outcome for us as a company.
The next question comes from Christopher Parkinson of Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up on a question that was previously answered.
In the previous discussions up until a few days ago just out of curiosity you mentioned the fall season is going to be much stronger than the spring season but what were you previously hearing in your distribution channels regarding about kind of the inventories and risk appetite prior to this announcement? Well I'll start with that.
We know that the retail system is basically empty.
When we look behind it some of the warehouses and distributors have consignment tons in place where as you go into that market -- but the key part of that is that the retail portion is empty.
So we see the fall as being extremely strong from a volume standpoint and we still see that in the discussions that we're having.
We still see it as being an extremely strong fall from an application standpoint.
Kelvin if you want to add some additional color? Yes.
Christopher if I can add a couple of things.
I think that customers are really looking for stability and this latest impact has kind of scared everybody.
And now everyone's waiting for things to settle again.
But I think stability is the word that I think about that.
We also got to remember that the farm economics are real strong still and I mentioned it in the previous comments.
These guys are still going to farm and so our sense is there's still really good demand for this fall potentially a little bit of a compressed window this fall as well if we get cooler weather and we don't get harvest off in time.
But I think everyone is gearing up for a significant fall and that's been the conversation.
We were just down at the Southwest Fertilizer Conference in San Antonio 1 600 folks down there and we met with a goodly portion of those folks.
And they're all speaking the same language and they're all indicating a really good fall that they expect.
So we're confident that the demand is there so long as the weather allows us to put the product on the ground.
The next question comes from Joel Jackson of BMO Capital Markets.
This is actually Adam for Joel.
I just had a quick question on potash cash cost.
Obviously it's a pretty hot topic right now.
For 2014 I'm trying to figure out when you're not considering the HB tons that are coming on at $80 a ton we know that's happening so from the existing facilities.
Are we going to be looking at production probably closer to 850 000 tons versus say for this year it's only 800 000 tons and costs more in line with your 170 000 180 000 guidance that you had previously for 2013? Like what does the 2014 cost profile look like absent HB? Adam this is Dave.
The numbers you're describing I think are very directionally in line and what I would tell you is that we'd probably be there in the third and fourth quarter if the timing elements around the West surface capital investments and the North Compaction.
If those have synced up perfectly you would see that higher recovery rate of feed going over to North.
And so we really anticipate that coming through in 2014.
It does increase our overall production profile.
It drives the unit cost as you know.
And then the -- you can't ignore the HB tons frankly and I think it's appropriate for you to capture those.
Clearly there's a ramp-up phase at HB as you guys know with solution mine and solar evaporation.
And so most of that is -- there's going to be a heavier weighting to the back end of the year in '14 on HB to factor in.
The point being that each one of these items continue to drive the cost exactly in the direction that you just described which are to the left side of the cost curve.
Adam this is Bob.
I just want to reiterate that the new West mill has not been up and operating yet and it's a new state-of-the-art design mill that will come on some time at the end of the third quarter early in the fourth quarter.
And that our current existing mills that's 40 to 50 years old that we've been upgrading renovating and making significant changes to testing experimenting with the different refining and milling processes so that we can take all of that material and it can now be compacted in our new compaction facility where we couldn't compact that material before.
So we have so many new changes that just none of which has been turned on yet.
All of which is still in the testing refining and commissioning stages that are the exciting part about Intrepid.
I mean our timing just couldn't be better given the light of what's going on in the marketplace.
Okay.
And just one more quick -- other question here.
It's on Trio.
So given your Q3 guidance of 30 000 40 000 tons the implied Q4 given your full year guidance is about 60 000 tons at Trio and that's up a lot considering what's happened in Q1 and Q2.
Is that like a better run rate for 2014? Or what are your thoughts on 60 000 tons in Q4? Yes.
Adam I think you're seeing the same trend that we're seeing on our operating side.
You look at the ramp-up historically here at Q2 up to 50 000 tons.
We've been making -- first quarter we talked about some of the actual design changes that had taken place in the plant that showed the result.
Second quarter here -- some of the operational and kind of maintenance timing questions have been sorted through.
So you're seeing the numbers just as we're seeing them and you extrapolate those and it shows you that we're getting right to where those design numbers are that we had talked about.
The next question comes from Don Carson of Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP Research Division</strong> A couple of question on the domestic market.
Everyone's focusing on offshore prices but the Canadian producers are still seeing about a $3 price premium adjusted for grade in the domestic market which is ironic since this is where the cartel doesn't operate.
But with -- 2 things one are you worried that the Russians and Belarusians are going to up more product into the river system as they ramp-up production? And second and more importantly Agrium has mentioned that probably the one tangible evidence of synergy between the wholesale and retail is your ability to put more of the Vanscoy ton through the retail system as they ramp-up Vanscoy in 2015.
So a what impact do you think that has an overall pricing in the domestic marketplace in terms of the premium? And b how does that affect you directly in terms of sales you might have through the Agrium retail system that would be backed out? This is Dave.
Why don't I start with the first question and then Kelvin if you could address the second half that'd be great.
I think the way I think about the domestic market I think you really have to consider what has transpired here over the last probably 18 months with the amount of warehouse space that has been put under consignment by Mosaic by PotashCorp.
We certainly have secured throughput arrangements with certain warehouse locations.
So there is a question about where those tons would go because many of those are multiyear deals.
And so the ability frankly to bring more tons in that's a big part of what I think that strategy was that the larger Canadian producers really started to push over the last couple of years.
So I think that's a piece that really does have to go into that question.
I don't have a good answer for you in terms of what flex granular capacity there is from the Russian producers.
I think that that's an item that really needs to be explored because as you know the U.S.
market is a granular market.
And that's why our investments in things like Moab things like Wendover North and our ability to compact and really flex our production where we need to becomes so valuable.
So with that Kelvin I'll turn it over to you on the Agrium question.
Sure.
Actually if I can touch on the river first I think the first piece on the imports is that there's a lot of players on the river and it's very competitive.
I would say that the Canadians are much more aggressive on the river than they have been.
You see a number of other players.
So I wouldn't say it's easy to just add tons to the river for any one player.
There's a number of different warehouses that get filled and so it's a little bit challenging to just put the switch and add hundreds of thousands of tons.
On the Agrium question I guess everyone has key customers as we do.
And certainly they're a large producer of potash.
So I guess there's places that we fit best into their system and there's places where other producers would fit better for their retail system.
So our strategy is really to grow our footprint with some of these new tons and go into some new geography and supply our old geography.
So I guess we don't focus on one specific customer.
We have a wide array of customers and we're convinced we'll easily place the tons that we're going to produce here in the near future.
The next question comes from Mark Gulley of BGC Financial.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Bob you talked about balance sheet flexibility you talked about prospering in difficult times.
So I'd like to ask you to maybe take that 1 or 2 steps further.
One way to prosper in tough times would be to initiate a share repurchase program to take advantage of what might be viewed as a bit of an irrational drop in a share price.
Can you address that first and I have a follow-up.
Well from an Intrepid standpoint I think retaining as much balance sheet flexibility is the smartest thing that we can do so that we can navigate through times.
I hear what you say in terms of trying to repurchase shares.
If I were to separate out Hugh and myself from Intrepid I think we represent an incredible value right now.
And so I think it's Intrepid's job to maintain its incredible balance sheet flexibility.
So I don't think today until things settle out is the right thing for Intrepid to do in terms of being a share repurchase program.
I think it's to make sure we see what's going to happen with this Russian situation.
As I've said earlier we've seen it before.
And historically the differences have provided an opportunity in the long term.
This is not the first time that these guys have argued like this.
It's probably one of the more public times but it's not the first time.
And so we've seen it.
We're used to it.
We understand it.
And so I just don't think it's the appropriate use of our excess cash right now to be distributing it at this time when things are uncertain.
I mean some of the analysts were writing obituaries about Intrepid yesterday.
So we're going to take our time and come up with a strategy that allows us to prosper as we always have.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess I'll take that as a no.
And secondly if I could extend it the other direction in terms of prospering through tough times.
Are you suggesting that some of the potash juniors might be viewed as interesting if you could take advantage of what's happening in the markets to perhaps acquire more reserves for develop later? I'm just trying to understand what you mean by prospering in terms of -- during times of adversity.
Can you add some more meat to the bones there? Well I think I did.
I think Intrepid has balance sheet flexibility that allows it to wait and understand what's going on.
We're going to continue our capital program.
We've already enhanced our opportunities with our customers to expand our footprint and we understand what that looks like.
We really don't believe this diversity that we see or this adversity that we see with the Russians is going to be a long-term situation.
We've heard this bluster before and it's never really played out the way that we've seen it analyzed in the last few days.
I'll leave it at that.
We don't see any opportunities from any of the juniors.
We've looked at all those projects before.
We've analyzed them all.
We've seen them all.
And we don't see the opportunities there.
I think Intrepid needs to keep its cash on its balance sheet but we recognize that there's great value on our stock at these levels.
The next question comes from Andrew Dunn of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> So I appreciate you guys have been in this business for a long time.
I was hoping maybe you could let us benefit from your historical perspective a little bit maybe give us an idea of -- from last time you saw something like this happened where it looked like the market was kind of going to get kicked in the teeth and what happened and how long it took for the market to regain some normalcy after that? Well we can go back to the late '70s when the Canadians nationalized potash and then privatized potash.
We can go to the early '90s when the Russians were flooding the market after the disintegration of the former Soviet Union.
We can go to the '03 '04 period when we had a similar situation to this and literally potash got down to $82.
We've seen corn prices trade around $1 to $1.50 and potash prices still come back strong.
I think people still underestimate the supply tons that are at risk around the world and we've all been through our various brownfields and the green fields that have been discussed how hard it is to actually produce potash produce potash on a cost-effective basis.
If you were to look at some of the North American competitors' cost structures we've seen some of them rise as they deal with water inflow issues as they have for many many years.
We've seen floods.
We've seen water incursions.
We've seen a variety of different supply disruption problems that historically have happened.
So when we go back and we look at this it's not pretty.
It's not fun.
It's not an enjoyable time to live through.
But as I said we've been here before.
We roll up our sleeves.
We do a better job at operating as we have always done through these times and we get through.
We try to invest in the right things that will provide return when the market stabilizes and then resumes an upward direction.
I can remember $9 crude oil in the late '90s and everyone felt like OPEC was going to come apart and you persevere through these times.
And so I've sold $0.50 gas on the Moxa Arch and we persevered and we sold $13 natural gas in 2008.
So we've been here.
We understand what it's like to live through a cycle and balance sheet strength is so important and focus on your operations.
It's hard to describe the anthill type of activity that we've have down in Carlsbad with all of these projects going on simultaneously.
Besides having 1 000 employees when you have hundreds of additional contractors all operating on top of each other at the same time it provides for difficulty in execution on the capital side as well as focused on the day-to-day operations.
And we're nearing the end of that.
We see the huge light at the end of the tunnel and the good news is we know exactly that it's daylight and that it's not a train.
We're confident about that.
So I don't know if I can give you anymore color other than that I've been here before.
And historically these times have provided opportunity.
When there's confusion and fear in the marketplace you just need to remain steady in what you're doing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one follow-up if I may.
You did comment that your production Outlooks have changed.
I think you did cite kind of upgrades swap outs at your new facilities and the upgrades there.
I'm just curious is there something different about this process or some new data that you've gotten in the last quarter different from what you knew the quarter before that or is it just more certainty in the timing? And do you think there's -- it looks like the majority of this is in 3Q.
Is there any risk significant risk that any of that can spill over into 4Q? Adam this is Dave.
The clarity on it is just we're closer to that date.
And like I touched on earlier we're making a lot of changes in the West mill to really increase recoveries which provides a different feedstock to our new North Compaction plant.
Syncing that up with the timing and commissioning of the new plant at the same time we're still running the old plant that just based on its age requires a fairly specific feed.
So as we go through that those test phases and different pieces of equipment come in I'd love to tell you that it's something other than just we're closer to it and we're recognizing that there's going to be more interruptions than we had first thought when we had set the budget.
It's as straightforward as that really.
The majority of it is in the third quarter as you've seen I think there's a notion that if it gets wrapped up in September if it gets wrapped up in October the part that I think is helpful for people to understand is that we can build basically a feed that goes over to the North.
And then because of the rate flexibility we have with that compactor it actually gets made up in the -- when the North plant is up and running.
So it may flex a little bit but it doesn't change the overall production over that period of time.
Hopefully that helps.
The next question comes from Michael Hoffman of Wunderlich.
Research Division</strong> On capital spending can you help us with what your maintenance capital spending is? So take all the growth out it's just maintenance.
Yes.
This is Dave.
We've been at a point where we have I would say in a price environment that we've experienced over the last couple of years where we've estimated it out to be somewhere in the $40 million room -- range or so.
The point I would make is that there's a lot of flexibility in that.
And maybe even back to Mark's question or Mark Connelly's question earlier the amount of flexibility we have in our capital program is very significant.
So if there is a -- if the price environment goes where so many of the research analysts have painted it to go you can look back even to 2008 2009 the first thing you do is you stop your capital you look for areas where you can defer you look at areas that are discretionary and you tighten your belt around that.
And we have that advantage.
It's the benefit of frankly having made all the investment that we have over the last several years.
So I don't see that as a number that I would draw a hard box around.
I think recognizing that that could be made smaller is a very real scenario.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But the point being you're spending at over $200 million.
So there's a monster swing between '13 to '14 if you just had to do just maintenance.
Yes.
I mean that's a great point.
If you were to take the midpoint of the capital range for this year it's -- I think the midpoint is about $260 million.
The bulk of that is HB.
North is nearly complete.
Moab is nearly complete.
And the West upgrades are probably about halfway through.
So we know where those big dollars are and we also know the timing of wrapping that up.
So your point is spot on that it's -- it is a significantly different picture.
And as I touched on earlier the cash is in the bank for those projects that we're going to be completing here in the next few months.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay.
So on free cash flow if you're given -- the question is can you be positive in 2014 without HB but having the benefit of these upgrades you're doing at the West mill? And price -- as the price environment we're in right -- it's the Uralkali price environment.
I think we can.
Everything that we have run shows that we would be.
And clearly the capital component is a piece of that.
And it just gives us a lot of choices at that point in time in terms of how we think about investments and the timing of those investments.
So the fact that we've made the investment like -- I know I'm repeating myself here but the fact that we've made the investment in the plants to this point just tells you that there's a much newer facility there that's probably got a lower load then you might have in a different environment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so I'm not asking for guidance as much.
But am I hearing from you a realization and an appreciation that you should be free cash flow positive.
So do whatever it takes to be in '14? I think that that's a very prudent operating model for us.
And very intentionally giving guys the opportunity to focus purely on operations I think will have a huge benefit to us as a company as these new investments are brought to a close.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And as I think about all these investments now and the cycling when you look out over the next call it 1.5 years when do you hit that run rate of 1 million tons of production at this point based on where you are and your understanding of everything coming online? Yes.
Certainly on the potash side I think that the -- as we move into 2015 that's really when we start to see the -- more of the full benefit from the HB tons.
So that's the time period that I would anticipate at this point Michael.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then how late in this quarter can you shift so you can allow this price issue to settle out? What's the -- how much flexibility do you have on you can wait wait wait and let some of the dust settle? Kelvin do you want to address that one? That's a good question.
Yes.
Let me start out by first we've got customers that want tons shipped in the very near future.
I mean we have customers that want tons now.
And so some of those tons are going to get priced now because they want them now.
And so we're going to see some clarity on where this pricing falls out pretty quickly.
And then I assume that the Canadians are going to come out with some direction in terms of where they see things going.
But we do have customers that are wanting shipments now and those tons will get negotiated and priced now and that's going to -- it's all going to provide a very dynamic iterative pricing scenario if you will.
I don't think that we're looking at 1 day in the future where it all gets resolved.
We're seeing customers that want tons as we speak.
Kelvin if you can add to that.
Michael if I can just add a couple of things.
I think our customers are very cognizant that logistics are very important especially in a compressed season.
And I guess as we push back and whether it's 1 week or 2 weeks from now when we get resettled I see them coming in and putting their orders in especially the large guys that got a lot of volume to ship.
So I think both from a farmer and a retailer perspective in the fertilizer side they're thinking about this and they know that they need to take a position at some point in the very near future.
So our stance is it will happen in the not-too-distant future and we'll easily be able to supply their needs prior to the end of the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one more the Uralkali supposedly has announced a 500 000 ton shipment into China but didn't give any pricing.
It's for delivery in the second half.
Any sense on what that price is? Michael this is Dave.
What I have seen and it's really coming out of the research community and there've been...
Research Division</strong> We don't know what we're talking about.
Yes.
Well -- I'm not going to address that.
What I have seen is that that price is in the $350 to $360 range which I think is kind of interesting given some of the I don't know frankly inflammatory comments that have been made otherwise.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And that standard you're selling granular.
Granular sells at a premium.
So if I start connecting the dots this is a head fake.
I think you -- I mean now I think we really just going to have to let time unfold a little bit.
I don't know that I can add to that speculation but you are addressing I think very important points.
The other thing to always remember is that China is buying in 0.5 million and 1 million tons increments.
And our customers are buying in 1 000 5 000 ton increments and those things are priced very differently.
And that's why we've seen the North America market always have such a good strong premium.
That there is still value placed on just-in-time inventory.
There is still value placed on quality.
There is still value placed on diversity of products and we are in a diverse strong agricultural market which is our home market.
So we're going to keep our heads about us.
And as I said we see this as an opportunistic phase.
It is adversity.
I don't want to lead anyone to think that we're pollyannaish about it we're very realistic about it.
But I think you hit the nail on the head earlier that we'll get through this.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last thing when are you going to kick open the doors and let us come kick the tires and see the benefit all this money is spent? Michael we'll follow-up with you outside of this call.
But suffice it to say we're certainly trying to get that planned.
The next question comes from Christopher Perrella of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> The fall expectations the robust demand that you and your customers are looking forward to is that a catch-up from the spring farmers that missed trying to build back up? And then looking ahead for the spring of 2014 do you foresee that being a more normal application season or do you think some of that gets pulled forward into this robust demand scenario coming in a couple of months? Kelvin why don't I start and then Bob or Kelvin if you guys want to add to it that'd be great.
I think the -- the fact is Chris and many folks have recognized it farmers really had to make a choice in the spring.
They had to make a choice as to whether or not they were going to finish up their dry application work for P or K or they were going to get a seed -- get seed in the ground.
So they took the only choice they could.
What that is going to result to frankly is a higher level of depletion of nutrient in the soil.
And we continue to see that situation as measured by university systems by the extension offices show that K decreases.
I think if there is a price impact that comes to the market it actually makes the demand side increase.
Those have tended to have a very strong negative correlation to one another over the years.
And you can kind of go back and look at summer -- or spring 2010 and then fall 2010 in terms of how quickly that demand can ramp-up.
So as Kelvin touched on earlier we think farm economics continue to be good.
Obviously input prices are a very small component overall.
And looking across the complex I think it would tell you that it may even be a smaller component making the economic argument even stronger.
Kelvin I don't know if you have anything else to add to that.
No I don't think so.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Just to follow-on to that.
Is there any risk out there when you talk to your customers? Are they nervous about a tighter fall window so to speak with the late harvest coming off the field? Chris this is Kelvin here.
I think there's always risk in farming.
I think it's inherent.
I think the reality is we've had some relatively normal weather through the last few weeks.
We've gotten timely rains which are encouraging to the farmers.
They're looking at a pretty good crop out there.
And I think there's -- it looks like a very good crop coming off.
And so I would say there's a general positive attitude at the farm gate today which really tells us that there's going to be some good application this fall.
Beyond that I really can't speak to it.
I mean there's always logistics challenges but we demonstrated this spring that these guys can cover a lot of ground in a short period of time.
And if they need to this fall they'll do the same.
So I think we're going to be positioned to apply product in a big way in a short period of time and we'll have some success as a result.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then one final question.
Dave what is an optimal capital structure in a more normal pricing or more -- or less volatile pricing environment for you? Well I think a big part of that really depends on what you've got ahead of you Chris.
And I think in our situation we've had a very significant capital investment program.
So making sure we had that cash on the balance sheet to fund it so that if you are in a volatile commodity market and you see volatility you can wrap up the projects that are very important to you.
It shows that we probably have the right capital structure at this point.
I think the -- several questions have kind of hinted around it and I think step one here is to see where all this settles out.
And as Bob mentioned we've drawn up contingency plans run a lot of different scenarios and they each have a different outcome Chris.
So I don't know that there's a singular answer to your question frankly.
The last question today is a follow-up from Mark Gulley of BGC Financial.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Bob a lot of discussion today about increasingly more sales on consignment of potash with the PotashCorp perhaps marginally accepting that that's the new model.
How do you think about how that changes the pricing visibility for the industry and for you in North America? It's a great question Mark.
I think consignment programs are in direct conflict with some of the production cutbacks that have been announced.
So once again we're taking some time to understand what the Canadians are trying to do as they have announced some pretty significant production cutbacks yet they have allowed some consignment programs to stay in place.
So we have a very empty retail system yet we have some consignment tons behind them.
I don't think that the consignment programs have been the best stewards of price.
So it's going to be interesting to see how those programs play out.
We do have a small percentage of our production that is on consignment.
It's not a program that we like.
It's not something that we think is the most optimum in terms of stewarding price but it is what it is in today's environment.
So as we look forward and we see production cutbacks we're going to be interested and see where the market goes as it relates to this because I think that those are kind of conflicting behaviors.
Once again I think that the next couple of quarters is going to play out a lot into where we're headed.
We've seen situations similar to this in the past back in the Mississippi Chemical days.
I can remember when Mississippi Chemical was in financial trouble and they would literally take cash for an order upfront and we had consignment back then.
So we've lived through it before.
This is a long answer to your question.
I think it's -- I hope I've answered it or have given you some color.
If you want to follow-up I'm happy to take the question but -- does that answer your question? Inc.
Research Division</strong> It sure does provide a lot of color and your frustration comes through pretty clearly.
Well I think -- I appreciate everybody dialing in.
We appreciate the questions.
Hopefully folks get a sense of what we're thinking and what we -- how we believe in what we've done here at Intrepid.
And so at this point I think we'll conclude the call.
And again appreciate everyone's interest in Intrepid.
This is the conference operator.
Welcome to the Intrepid Potash Inc.
2013 Third Quarter Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Gary Kohn Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Brock.
Good morning.
Thank you all for joining us for our third quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
Presenting on the call today are Dave Honeyfield President and Chief Financial Officer; and Kelvin Feist Senior Vice President of Sales and Marketing.
Also in the room with us today are Hugh Harvey Executive Vice Chairman of the Board; John Mansanti Senior Vice President of Operations; Martin Litt Executive Vice President and General Counsel; and Brian Frantz Vice President of Finance and Chief Accounting Officer.
Bob Jornayvaz our Executive Chairman of the Board is traveling and unable to join us today.
I would like to remind everyone that statements made on this call that are not historical fact or that express our belief expectation or intention including statements about our financial operational outlook are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the United States securities laws.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are based on a number of assumptions which we believe are reasonable.
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from our expectations.
You can find more information about these risks and uncertainties in our annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q as filed with the SEC.
Also during today's call we may refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITA adjusted net income and adjusted net income per diluted share.
Our earnings press release includes reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures.
Our SEC filings and our press releases are available on our website at intrepidpotash.com.
I will now turn the call over to Dave.
Thanks Gary.
Good morning and welcome to everyone who has joined us for today's call.
The most important news for the third quarter is the progress we continue to make on our new and upgraded assets that will enhance our operations by lowering cash operating cost per ton increasing production and providing more flexibility in our processes to allow us to pursue the best margin sales opportunities.
This has been a planned multi-year program that is now reaching its desired end goals.
In the quarter our teams brought each project closer to the finish line setting us up to start realizing the benefits of the investments as we move through 2014.
Specifically we have recently placed the first 2 lines of our new North Compaction facility into service and are happy with the new capabilities that the plant offers.
We completed construction of the HB wells pipeline and pond and beginning in August we have filled all the solar evaporation ponds with potash-rich brine.
We've continued construction of the HB mill with the target of beginning our first harvest of potash and delivering first production near the end of this year.
We completed the drilling of the third cavern system at Moab and we're set to begin circulating brine.
And we continue to make upgrades for improved recovery at our West facility.
As we bring these projects into operation the opportunity to lower our cash operating cost becomes more apparent.
As the HB Solar Solution mine progresses we expect to see increased production and proportionally more of our tons delivered by low-cost solar evaporation which better positions us for the long-term opportunities.
Importantly the capital to bring these investments to completion has already been earned and raised.
Through this phase of substantial capital investment we have maintained a strong balance sheet and a prudent capital structure.
We finished the quarter with cash and investments totaling $81 million and we have full availability of our recently amended and extended $250 million unsecured credit facility.
In the third quarter we are in $2 million of net income or $0.03 per share and $20 million of adjusted EBITA.
In the first 9 months we have delivered net income of $28 million or $0.37 a share and $91 million of adjusted EBITA.
Third quarter's net income was reduced by $3 million or $0.04 per share due to a lower cost or market adjustment and the reserve we recorded against previously booked high-wage tax credits in the State of New Mexico.
We've detailed these items in last night's press release and in our 10-Q which will be available later today.
Despite softer pricing and the expected temporary decrease in production that led to an increase in per-ton cash operating cost of goods sold we generated cash flow from operations of nearly $15 million in the third quarter bringing the 9-month total to $62 million.
Importantly each of our operating facilities contributed positive operating cash flow during the quarter.
As we announced in August our quarterly production levels and as a result our cost of goods sold for the third and fourth quarters are affected by our continuing implementation of recovery upgrades at West.
The upgrades underway accommodate our mining in the different ore zones and are designed to maximize recoveries through the mill.
Investing in these recovery enhancements is both financially prudent and timely given that our new compaction lines at North are designed to handle a broader array of particle sizes to produce granular potash.
Reduced potash in Trio production levels at East also had an impact on cost of goods sold.
While the improvements we have made in recent years to the East mill have improved its performance the delivered ore grade has been lower than we had expected reducing production.
During the first 9 months of the year we produced 571 000 tons of potash roughly flat compared with last year.
We also produced 136 000 tons of Trio a 39% increase from the first 9 months of last year.
As we move into 2014 and commission all the upgrades we expect first to sustain and then to improve our production levels which in turn will reduce our per-ton operating costs.
Our cash margin on Trio for the first 9 months of this year was 36%.
This is up nicely from the 25% we earned through the first 9 months of last year.
Through this margin improvement we generated $47 more cash per ton for Trio on a price increase of only $34 per ton in the comparative 9-month periods.
Our Solar Solution mines in Moab and Wendover continue to earn the highest potash cash margin in our portfolio of mines.
This fact underscores the very reason we've been investing to expand our solar solution footprint.
The opening of HB near year end and the ramp-up of production over the next few years will drive a meaningful shift to the left on the cash cost curve.
At full capacity of 150 000 to 200 000 tons annually our HB Mine will nearly double the number of our solar solution tons that we produce today at a very attractive cash operating cost per ton.
We will continue to focus on investing in assets to take advantage of combining solution mining with geographically advantaged solar evaporation.
We see future opportunities for solar evaporation -- or solar solution mining in the existing HB acreage as well as the acreage we acquired last year in the nearby AMAX/Horizon mine and we're in the early stages of planning around this development project.
Our investments to enhance our sales flexibility by increasing our capacity to make granulated potash are nearing completion as well.
The last of our projects on this front is the construction of the 3 new compactor lines at our North facility.
In the quarter we commissioned the first 2 lines which are now producing high-quality granulated potash.
It's great to have these new production lines in service and we're looking forward to completing the work at North when we bring the third line on early next year.
This investment allows us maximum flexibility to pursue the highest-margin sales opportunities in the marketplace now that we can granulate 100% of our potash production.
This is a time of opportunity for Intrepid.
As we move through this transitional period we see Intrepid emerging as a stronger better-positioned company.
Of course we know that potash pricing will fluctuate and we understand that this volatility is outside of our control.
What we can control however and what we've been investing to do is lowering our per-ton cash operating cost in order to maximize our cash margin opportunity on every ton we sell.
Looking out over the next several years we plan to take the steps necessary to maximize our financial performance from the investments that we have made.
In 2014 we expect to be free cash flow positive from the confluence of completing many of our large capital projects and decreasing the capital intensity to levels that are more in the $50 million to $75 million range.
Another key benefit of completing the capital projects is that we will now have a more singular attention focused on optimizing the operations of our newly constructed plans.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Kelvin.
Thanks Dave.
The long-term drivers of the potash market remain in place.
However and not surprisingly we were not immune to the recent conditions that have impacted the industry.
Our third quarter results with a 37% decline in potash sales volume compared with the same period last year and a 19% decline in Trio sales volumes.
Looking at the 9-month results potash sales volumes were down 17% while Trio sales volumes improved 17%.
We do not believe that these sales are lost but merely postponed.
Given the market disruption and the resulting pricing environment dealers are waiting to place orders until farmers begin making purchases.
The positive here is that the product demand still exists as farmers continue to apply potash recognizing that it has a key role in the maximization of yields.
Today farmers are busy harvesting their crops and in the near future we anticipate that they will complete this task and direct their attention toward fieldwork and fertilizer application.
We believe that we are well-positioned in the market to meet the surge in demand with just-in-time delivery of our potash products.
We were able to offset some of the potash weakness in the agriculture market through our diversified channels including the industrial and feed markets.
For this reason we have made a concerted effort during the last few years to grow and diversify our end markets expand our product flexibility and build on our strong customer relationships.
In the third quarter our net average realized sales price for potash was $363 per ton.
We expect ongoing market pressures to continue to move prices downward in the fourth quarter.
What won't change however is our expectation that we will continue to be the net average realized potash price leader in North America.
The keys to our price advantage remain unchanged and intact: our strong customer relationships; our geographic advantage; our diversified customer base and crops we serve; our freight advantage; and our flexible approach to serving the market.
We sold Trio at an average net realized sales price of $353 per ton in the third quarter which is up from the same quarter last year.
Trio which is recognized as a specialty fertilizer in the market has held its value well despite the lower prices for sulfur and potassium 2 of its components.
Our granular and pelletized forms of Trio typically earn a price premium and customer demand exceeds our current production rates.
We will continue to focus on meeting this demand.
The worldwide and domestic agriculture fundamentals continue to be -- to support positive potash demand trends beyond the current environment.
First potassium is removed from the soil based on the yield and should be replenished to promote soil nutrition.
Second economics for farmers remained strong and we believe farmers understand that applying nutrients in a balanced manner is an essential part of increasing yields and ultimately maximizing their own profitability.
Third farmers certainly are going to look to reduce some of the inherent risks that weather brings and may look to perform their fieldwork including applying potash to soil.
And finally over the long-term the need to continually increase yields from the available acre in order to meet the ever-increasing food demands of an expanding population.
All in all we are confident that farmers will farm customers will buy fertilizer and Intrepid will be successful in selling all of our potash and Trio.
Thanks.
And I will now turn the call over to Dave.
In summary our strategy remains straightforward and is aimed at margin expansion opportunity by focusing on expanding our low-cost production footprint with additional tons produced through the combination of solution mining and solar evaporation; by completing our investments in major capital projects to increase production and lower cash cost; by creating the capacity to granulate 100% of our potash to increase our marketing flexibility; and by marketing our products in a responsible manner focusing on our relationships with our customers and achieving the highest average net realized sales prices in North America.
With that we're ready to turn the call over for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today comes from Mark Connelly of the CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Two things.
First with respect to the modifications you're doing at East can you give us a sense of what you're doing now and how it relates to what you were doing before? And any rough impact on what the total impact that's going to be on total production is going to be in '14? And the second question you mentioned the $50 million to $75 million spend range which is not new but as you think about these incremental opportunities down the line at AMAX and at HB have you started to think about the timing of those projects yet or is it just too early? Thanks Mark.
I think maybe a clarification would be helpful.
With regards to what's going on at East right now most of the work at East is actually complete.
And I think you'll recall that we had quite a bit of discussion over the last year about the -- really the operating improvements that have been taking place.
And the East mill is actually running pretty well right now.
What we're focusing on at East right now is the ore grade that's being delivered to the mill and that ore grade has been delivered at a little bit lower percentages than we had put into our budget at the beginning of the year.
We're working through mine plans on that right now and expect to see some stabilization around that as we move through 2014.
We are making the modifications at the West facility and that's really a combination of what's going on with the mining capacity we've added over the recent years.
And the ability to compact that product through the new North mill.
Because East pardon me -- West and North are really a combined system.
So I think that's a little bit helpful to understand.
On the base production I think we'll -- as we look forward I expect -- I would expect to really see things stay fairly steady through 2014 with the exception of the new HB tons that we expect to see coming on during the year.
And that will really be set up through the 2 harvests that occur the one that happened starting this winter and then the one that will happen starting next fall.
So we'll see a little bit of additional production coming through the first half of the year and then more of that will be back-end loaded.
And then with regards to your second question on the capital range and the timing around the additional sulfur solution mining we're really going through that evaluation phase right now.
I would expect that that work would probably start sometime during 2015.
Right now -- but again if we can move that forward we certainly will based on what we think could be very positive operating characteristics of that associated with solution mining.
The next question comes from Michael Hoffman of Wunderlich.
Research Division</strong> Dave I think if I understood the last one I wonder the net into it.
How should we model or think about the improvement in cash cost on potash based on your ramp from HB solar first half '14 and then second half '14? How do we -- how would you think about -- how we should look at that modeling? And I'm assuming -- I'm taking $198 from the third quarter and trending that.
Yes.
I think on that front Michael that as we look at cash cost for next year there's really probably 2 major items that I would look at.
One is clearly we're going through this tie-in phase at our existing operations which is really largely affected by what's happening at West and focusing on the recoveries there.
So I actually see that's improving on our cash operating costs from our base properties and probably getting back closer to where our original guidance was at the beginning of the year which was somewhere in that $185 to $195 range on that.
So that would be step 1.
Our initial harvest from HB again that will happen over -- probably up through March or April of 2014.
And with that being a little bit lower operating rate that should come in we hope a little bit lower than where our average is but certainly the $80 per ton cash margin -- or pardon me cash cost that we have described I really see that gradually getting there as we get to full harvest full solar evaporation season the ability to have brine circulating in the mines.
So that really starts to come into play later in 2015 in the second half year which is effectively our third harvest if you think through it.
So we'll see improvements coming through as those additional tons come online.
But it will really -- that improvement will be a little bit gradual.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So let me repeat so that I think I understand it.
You do -- if you get back to $185 to $195 the first half '14 you would see below that modestly benefiting from the initial harvest.
And then there's a sort of continuing gradual improvement as you do second harvest and then you get the max benefit by the third harvest.
I think that's a great way to sum it up.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then with regards to the cash flow how do we think about the timing of evidence of this improvement in cash flow? When do we get the first real indication that okay it really is turning? Well I think the most significant benefit of that will probably start to show in third to fourth quarter of 2014 Michael because what'll happen is we'll start harvesting second harvest sometime around August September timeframe.
So clearly those tons will start to get sold in the fourth quarter of 2014 is where you'll to start to see the most significant impact.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So from a free cash flow standpoint you in what I'm hearing is you'll still be negative in 4Q 1Q 2Q and then you turn positive 3Q 4Q? Or will you turn positive before that? This is on a free cash basis.
Yes.
I expect we'll be -- keep in mind that each of our operating facilities continue to be net-positive cash flow right now.
And when we think of free cash flow the capital investment will have a little bit of carryover I think into the first quarter as we wrap up North.
We'll probably have a couple of small items coming on at HB.
And that's when -- first and second quarter is when more of our West improvements happen.
But I would actually see us and hope to be at a free cash flow situation in the second quarter and see that continuing through third and fourth quarter.
Thirdly pricing and sales levels are going to have an impact on that.
We all know that impact.
It is just something that we're going to have to manage too.
But our expectation is we're going to manage to a free cash flow number for '14.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question for me.
Your sales projection for the quarter is a nice improvement sequentially.
So what indications are you getting from the distributors that somebody is going to make the first move and push through the prisoner's dilemma issue and start buying? Kelvin can you respond to that one please? Sure.
Let me try.
I guess what we see in -- and that we're -- we've been seeing here for 1 week or 2 now.
As I have indicated the harvest is just kind of beyond half way I guess in the Midwest.
And so what we're seeing is some pretty strong demand going to the field right now on a [ph] plowed-out scenario on both phosphates and potash.
So our expectation is that that will continue.
And so long as we don't have weather issues we expect that this is going to be a pretty strong fall application season.
So the fact that we delayed relative to last year -- if you remember last year was very very early because of drought and -- quickly dried down their crop.
This year we actually got a lot of moisture and they're delayed in their harvest.
So now that they're completing that we expect that they're going to get to fertilizer application.
And all indications are that they plan to do a similar or slightly more than they have done historically.
The next question comes from Ben Isaacson of Scotiabank.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 questions.
Dave when we go to the out year let's call it 2016 can you talk a little bit about the variability in your cash costs? What will the low be what will be the high be and what will be proportions of that be? And then my second question would be for Kelvin.
Maybe just some commentary on whether you're seeing increased imports of potash into the Gulf.
And if so by who and where is that product moving? And is that a threat to your netback advantage? Ben this is Dave.
With regards to your first question when we look forward to 2016 what we envision at that point in time is that about 35% to 40% of our tons will be delivered by solar solution mining.
And those tons as you know are our most profitable tons with a cash cost if you factor in the HB tons I think in our most recent investor presentation we've shown a kind of an indicative example of what that looks like.
And I think it took our midpoint down by -- was it 17%? It ran around 11% or so.
But yes.
Oh that ran 11%.
The variability on that -- variability there's clearly variability in any mining operation.
And then we always see variability in terms of the evaporation seasons based on was it really a dry year? Was there some moisture involved? And that's -- what we've said historically is that's a plus or minus 20%.
And it's just an inherent variability that we need to manage to and accept.
But on average like I said we'll see 35% to 40% of those tons coming in in the form of Solar Solution mines.
So then overall very positive effect on cash flows.
Kelvin if you want to take the second half of that? Sure.
Let me try this Ben.
Just with regard to imports we've seen several vessels recently show up in New Orleans.
Our expectation is that it's a similar volume to other years that we're going to see come in as imports.
The rivers are in a competitive environment and more return than many other markets that we play in.
And I guess that's partly why we don't ship a whole bunch of product to the river.
Certainly the Canadians participate with barge sales on the river.
You've got some Russian product and some Israeli product there.
And I think everyone is competing for that same opportunity.
So as I said very competitive.
I think the way I see our business is we try to spread our tons across a pretty big geography.
When you think about Utah we're really -- we're playing in the Pacific Northwest and specifically there's some -- quite a bit of industrial business up that way.
But I think all our -- all of our tons we've got a pretty good diverse plan there participating in the feed business the industrial business and then the ag business.
That's Texas that's Western Corn Belt that's a number of different areas.
So as we spread our tons we don't see a significant change in terms of keeping that advantage relative to our competitors.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe just a point of clarification Dave in terms of the first question.
Sorry I wasn't asking about the variability of solution mining in cash cost I wanted to know the variability of overall.
So in 2016 are your highest cost tons going to be kind of $20 per ton higher than the solution mining? Or how should we think about that? Well Ben I really do think that that indicative model that we put together in our IR presentation does a reasonable job of showing what that looks like because if you look at our overall cash cost per ton over the past couple of years it -- I mean it's been relatively flat.
And the composition of where those tons come from has been pretty consistent.
Clearly with some of the work we're doing at West we have an expectation that we will see a lower cash cost associated with an overall improvement in per-ton economics.
And then we'll be -- we've got the solution mine tons that come in.
So I think that that model actually gives a pretty good example of what things look like going forward.
The next question comes from Christopher Parkinson of Crdit Suisse.
This is Tom Ackerman filling in for Chris.
So on -- as a follow-up to the cash cost questions.
For Trio specifically you cited a lower ore grade as the primary reason for the increased production costs.
Could you provide any additional information as to what run rate we should be looking at for Trio going into 2014? Yes Chris -- or pardon me Tom.
I think right now I'd probably model in somewhere close to about 50 000 tons a quarter.
Like I said we're going through some of that work in our mine plan.
And the piece that we're really trying to drive towards is what's the most effective model for our East facility.
As you think about the fact we do have a little bit of flexibility in terms of where we had our miners whether they're in the more intense sulfide areas of or more intense potash areas or more intense Trio areas.
So that's where I would look to.
If you put those rates on relative to some of the past quarters I think you can get a feel for where that takes cash costs associated with that facility.
So I don't know that necessarily third quarter is indicative of that run rate.
I'd say second quarter is probably a little bit more indicative of where we expect to see Trio costs.
Okay great.
And also can you comment on what you're hearing from your customers regarding product movement? Particularly looking at the shorter fall application window versus a lack of future pricing visibility? Sure.
Kelvin do you mind touching on that a little bit? Sure Tom.
We typically see the farmer having to step in and start applying before we start recharging some of those bins.
So right today we're hearing a good response at the -- I'll call it the farm gate.
But we have not seen a significant amount of movement back into those warehouses.
So it's starting but it's just on the very-early stages of that.
So the other part of your question was relative to timing.
And I guess if you look at traditional we're really not late today.
We're late relative to last year.
But there's a lot of application that tends to happen after Thanksgiving or in that timeframe.
So I guess we're hoping that we have an open window from here through Thanksgiving and beyond and that will allow all farmers to get the product that they want.
But that's really an unknown that I really can't guess that today.
They do have a significant amount of moisture that they've gotten so the drought risk or concerns in many of the areas are somewhat abated.
And so things are looking pretty positive at the farm gate today.
And so as long as we have decent weather we're going to have a good run this fall.
The next question comes from Don Carson of Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Dave a question on the expansions.
With more product coming out of Canada with expansions there particularly in 2015 when Vanscoy is up and running do you think you'll be able to have to shut in some of your existing capacity? Or basically with these expansions who do you think you'll be displacing from the market? Don this is Dave.
Thanks for the question.
Without a doubt and I think Kelvin touched on elements of that earlier competition is -- it's very robust in the U.S.
And I think the advantage for us is that we have made some very intentional steps over the last couple of years and we continue to do so.
Where we look at trying to secure space where we can move our tons through we try to do that over a fairly broad geography.
We continue to emphasize the importance of the industrial and the feed business as an ability to diversify our tons.
So in a lot of ways we've already built some of that capacity to move these tons into the system.
And my guess is it still be -- it may touch a little bit several people's current tonnage.
But we don't expect it to be such a dramatic effect that it would necessarily cause the reaction or much pressure around the market.
So I think it's again some of those very key marketing tenants.
And then again you add on to that that we've built that flexibility into our production system where I think we've got a good handle on what the market sizes are for certain products.
And we have that ability to flex our production model to sell a certain amount of standard if that's what we need.
And if we need to ramp it up to granulate 100% of our product we have that capability now.
And that's something that is really growing for us over the last couple of years through our investments.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Just a follow up.
I assume one of those tools is consignments sales or price-protected sales.
What percentage of the industry now is on some sort of price-protected basis to induce the dealer to take the product or as you say to secure that floor space? And how does that meet the accounting definitions of an actual sale? Or are you still just booking that as inventory? Sure.
The accounting piece is the easy part of that question.
Kelvin if you can maybe think about the market piece on that in terms of the industry.
But the accounting fees I can comment on how we do it and how I think folks should do it.
But if you have consignment tons definitionally those are still our tons in someone else's space.
And those tons stay on our inventory.
And we don't recognize those as a sale until that ton is reported sold by the customer.
If there is a price protection color or something on those lines that exist on a ton what we do is when that ton is sold we recognize revenue to the floor price on that because that's the piece we know with certainty.
And then when that eventually settles up we adjust it at that point in time.
So it's certainly becoming a bigger part of the market than it's been -- it was 5 years ago.
And it's one of the tools that we see producers use and they try to make sure their tons are in place.
Donald maybe I'll just add I mean a lot of the large warehouses today have some kind of support from a producer.
Now those things aren't always static and they don't stay with the same producer forever.
So some of those move around year-to-year and what not depending on what the customer is looking for.
But I would say at the reseller level or a level above the dealer in the field certainly most of that the big warehouses have some type of commitment to them from somebody.
We use a number of different tools in our portfolio.
And I guess we really ask our customer what they like best and if that's the consignment then we follow that track if it's something else we go a different direction.
So I think we show a little bit more flexibility than some of the cookie cuter models that are out there today.
Just coming back to your question about how we're going to place our tons we typically see more opportunities than we're able to supply.
So the way we see it is some of our key customers have more tons that we may have access to.
And so we anticipate growing our business for some of those customers.
So I guess today we don't see a significant challenge in placing those -- some of those new tons.
The next question comes from Vincent Andrews of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Question on price.
Could you kind of just walk us through how price played out during your third quarter? Obviously there's sort of a before-and-after component of it.
And then I know your expectation was -- you said earlier that it's going to be lower in 4Q and it's a little uncertain out there.
But can you talk about what you're seeing now as the -- it sounds like the season is starting to pick up? And what you think will happen to price as we sort of come out of the fall application season over to winter? I'll touch a little bit on what we saw transpire over the quarter.
And Kelvin if you can touch a little bit on what you see happening today.
Obviously during the -- we know during the quarter we saw the events unfold in -- right at the end of July.
And that just created a major I'd say delay or stop in the market.
And there were several periods during the quarter that certainly the larger Canadian producers took down price.
And I don't know if that was in an attempt to try to spur a little bit of demand or such.
But it was a couple of decent sidesteps that took place right there in the middle part of August and then again towards the end of September.
So I feel pretty good about our ability to hold that where we could.
And certainly that's one of the advantages of that diversity we have in the sales mixes.
Sometimes we see a little bit flatter response across the market just because the timing of how the industrial and feed pricing adjustments come in as well.
Let me just touch on pricing a little Vince.
We all knew that -- I guess the pricing out there was right on that $400 reference price several months ago.
It then slips down to $385 or thereabouts.
We are starting to see more stability as we get closer to actual application.
And the product is placed ready to go to the farm gate.
So I think there's still some noise and a number of people saying there's a lot of pressure still.
I would say that's on all fertilizer products and potash hasn't been immune to that.
So it's really the broader complex of fertilizer that's seen some pressure here over the last little while.
I guess I don't see any significant changes as we get into actual application season and that's the positive.
Who knows beyond that if we're going to see some changes.
But what we know is we were trading at higher numbers and we've since seen the reference price come down.
And that's why we made the comment that there is some downward pressure in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just as a follow-up Dave.
Just want to make sure we get our cash flow statement in as good a shape as possible.
I'm assuming you're going to end the year with -- based on your production sales volume for the fourth quarter you'll probably end the year with a little bit of an inventory build that reverses in '14 because you should sell some of that deferred volume that didn't get sold in '13 and in '14.
Is that's how we should be thinking about that piece of it? Well we're -- I mean frankly we haven't had a whole lot of inventory build over even the last couple quarters.
So we always try to build a little bit going into year-end because we see fairly robust pulls in the spring as you know.
And so I don't see any really abnormal cycles for us.
But yes certainly you can look at the numbers and the outlook pieces and it shows that we're producing more tons than we're selling so we will see a little bit.
But really that's quite intentional and we think it's quite normal actually.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then -- and do you have an idea of what D&amp;A will be for next year? Well I think overall for the year our year-to-date number we're about $45 million total DD&amp;A for 2013 year-to-date.
Annualized that would get us to about $60 million.
And then keep in mind that we have parts of HB and majority of North coming online and into that calculation.
So almost $300 million of new capital.
And fairly long-lived stuff but I would expect that DD&amp;A number to go up probably about $10 million more or so next year.
The next question comes from Adam Samuelson of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping to follow-up maybe on Don's question a little bit.
And appreciating some of the different operating costs at some of the different operations in Carlsbad.
Just thinking about East then can you talk about some of the linkages whether that's operationally share compaction warehousing transportation overhead between East and some of the other facilities in Carlsbad? And if you were to look at maybe prices did fall further how you'd managed production at East which is extremely the most obvious target? Adam I think East is probably the right place to have that focus because we know that in our own operations East is particularly on the potash side the highest cash operating costs within our system there is some flexibility out there and actually the North Compaction plant that we have built when we talk about being able to compact 100% of our potash the geography between the North and the East is a couple miles.
And we routinely have the ability to transfer product over there and compact it.
So actually that helps again with our flexibility where we don't end up creating situations where we build products that may have a little bit smaller market associated with them.
But as we look at the overall operating pieces what we need to always keep in mind is that we do mine and mill that product on a basically a co-product basis with the Trio side.
So when we look at overall plant profitability like I mentioned East plant continues to be cash generating for us.
It is at -- for a variety of different price points.
But it's one of the areas that we're looking very closely at in terms of what does that operating model look like if there were to be some significant pricing pressure? I think we touched on it the last quarter call that it's an evaluation that we're in the middle of.
We continue to work through that and develop those next step options.
So -- options include things like potentially looking at it as a Trio production facility only.
Obviously that involves some investment of capital looking at how do we currently process the potassium ore or the potash ore.
So they're all steps that we're looking at.
We're trying to see where those price points are that would some of these model -- optimization models might make more sense.
So it's a fairly dynamic question because we actually see a lot of our specialty products come out of that facility.
And we get a little bit higher net realized price on them as well.
So we'd want to be sensitive to the fact that those specialty products tend to get better pricing and it's actually quite a dynamic system to look through.
So I know I'm not giving you a specific answer to your question in terms of step 1 through 10 but hopefully you're getting a feel that we are looking at it we're looking at it in the right way and we're fully aware of where those levers are in the business.
Research Division</strong> No that's some helpful color.
And then maybe maybe continuing at East on the product side the Trio.
I mean the price premium the price gap between your Trio realized sales price and your potash realized sale price is basically closed at this point.
I mean do you think that you could actually see Trio at a premium to potash moving forward? And maybe comments on your potash if your share price is flat and your comments on potash pricing hold true that would happen in the fourth quarter presumably but how sustainable do you think that is given that the lower prices that you've seen for sulfur and the lower prices that you're seeing for potassium and potash? So let me touch on it and then Kelvin if you can add a little bit more color to it that'd be helpful.
But I think the way you're looking Adam -- looking at it Adam is right that we may actually see that next quarter.
And the big pieces that the demand profile particularly for the granular and premium Trio remains very strong.
And people view that as a specialty product much like you see other specialty products hold their pricing.
Because folks first start looking at it from an agronomic perspective.
And even with a little bit of pressure in the sulfur market the mag has a real value associated with it.
And we've got some crops that tend to be higher-value crops that these products get applied to.
So the economics to a farmer continue to be quite positive.
Yes.
I think Adam Dave pretty well covered it.
And whenever you're short on supply the demand is out stripping our supply on these materials today.
So we're able to kind of keep a firm price there.
And I think that's a recognition that the value is there it gives us that opportunity to price it where we have.
So I do see Trio certainly has closed the gap and will probably hold much stronger.
Things look pretty good in that regard.
So we're comfortable we'll be able to sell all of it and continue at a nice margin like where we're at today.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Maybe just a quick final one for me.
And it's like should come out in the [ph] queue but what percentage of sales were non-ag in the quarter? So during the -- for Q3 our ag sales represented 67% of our total sales industrial was 25% and feed was 8%.
And we've had this situation happen before.
I think really the industrial and feed markets have remained quite steady.
Some of those percentage changes are driven by some of the softness on the ag piece.
And in fact we'll see some of that deferred here into the fourth quarter.
The next question comes from Christopher Perella of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just a little more color please on the Trio sales in the third quarter? If demand continues to outstrip supply I was surprised to see they were down a bit year-over-year.
Yes.
Chris this is Dave.
What we're talking about when we're talking about the demand is really that granular and premium product.
If you'll notice we tend to sell a lot of our standard product into the export market.
And we didn't have much in the way of export sales during the third quarter.
I think that number was only about 11% of our total Trio sales.
So I think that's the place where if there is a little bit of softness on the Trio side it's around the standard market.
And we know that there is some pressure on that piece from a pricing perspective in the export market.
All that said we're continuing to work on pelletization and trying to convert as much of that into granular as we can to take advantage of the stronger pricing on that premium product.
Research Division</strong> How much can you granulize or compact now? We're really in the beginning phases of that the design of that plant was to essentially be able to compact virtually all of our product there.
And we're pretty far from that right now.
What we've seen are some pretty major steps on the pelletization.
Trying to give you an exact number on that is a little bit challenging for us but I think we'll probably somewhere maybe 20% to 25% of our product at some point will get to that pelletized range.
But it's going to take us a little while as we work through that.
Research Division</strong> All right.
A final question if I may.
What assumptions get you to the high-end and low-end of your sales guidance tonnage for the fourth quarter? I'll give a quick answer on it and if there's more to it Kelvin please add to it.
But I think at the end of the day Chris it's just uncertainty as to timing around weather window.
And if we see a good weather window here and guys get into the field get crops off like Kelvin described I think we've got a real opportunity to hit that top end.
And if we see continuing moisture across the Midwest or further delay I think that's where we might see some pressure towards the low end.
That's spot on.
I think the industrial business looks good all the way through the rest of the year so we're not worried about that.
And our feed business looks real strong.
So I think it really comes down to the question of weather for the next really 30 to 45 days.
The next question comes from Joel Jackson of BMO Capital Markets.
I just wanted to follow-up a little bit on East so I understand the commentary you're giving.
Are you talking about possibly here changing your mine plan at East to maybe high grade and pushing out some of the lower-grade ore to later years in the mine plan? Joel actually we've been very intentional in our mine planning and to -- high grade has a pretty negative connotation across the industry.
And I would characterize what we're doing quite differently than that.
What we're looking at is how do we pursue different -- keep in mind we've got 9 mining panels that are operating currently at our East mine so our ability to go in different directions and to approach different parts of the ore body is really where some of that flexibility comes in.
We're very keen to make sure that we're not making decisions that cut us off in future years because these are long-lived assets.
We intend to develop them in a very prudent and thoughtful way.
And we're going to make sure that we look back over areas where we've mined before and see if there is some additional mining that can happen in certain areas.
We're going to look at the mix of ore that we're feeding to the mill and work to optimize that.
But we've got a commitment to maintaining a certain development ratio in our mining and we're going to stick to that.
Okay thanks a lot.
Now looking at your CapEx just so I understand in Q1 '14 it's really other than sustaining capital the only CapEx spend really will be at West and on HB.
Is that how we should think about it? Well really 3 areas is the way I would describe it.
We're working -- pushing pretty -- pushing as hard as we can on HB to get that mill completed here by the end of the year and see first production.
So we'll definitely have HB.
With North we have the third compactor line that's set to be delivered here sometime in November.
And there'll be a little bit of remaining installation work that carries into probably January maybe into February.
And then the West work.
So those are the 3 if you think of the major projects the HB steps really tail related North is really tail.
I think on North we've already invested about $92 million of our expected capital there.
So we don't have much left and same thing with HB.
But it's really -- that will probably be the single largest quarter for us as I look forward Chris -- or pardon me Joel.
And then the base-sustaining capital rate for next year will be about $50 million? We'll be lower than that.
We're going to crank down pretty hard on that piece of things and just want to make sure that we're certainly going to put the investment in that we need to.
But if there is some things that are I'd say more discretionary we just need to make sure we've got a great handle on where pricing is going to shakeout for the industry.
Okay.
And in the quarter potash royalties were actually very low almost near 0 whereas Trio royalties were about normal.
Can you just elaborate on that please? Yes.
I can and I would look at the year-to-date numbers on the royalty piece particularly as you're building your model on that.
Our royalties will be somewhere in that kind of 4% to 5% range on annual.
We had an adjustment to make a correction in some royalties where we had actually over-accrued a little bit in an earlier quarter.
So you're seeing that come through in the quarter.
There's been no change in the business no change in that structure at all just really a true-up that occurred in the quarter.
Okay.
And finally have you seen any shift at all on the revenue last few months? Any maybe a little more product coming out of Israel or Germany or Russia up the river in the last couple months you normally would see around this time of the year? Kelvin do you want to touch on that one? Sure Joel.
We really haven't seen a significant change.
I think the players are setting up for fall application season.
So we've certainly seen over the last couple of years more Israeli and some amount of Russian.
So I guess we haven't seen any dramatic changes here for this fall and anticipate similar competitive environment from all -- from everybody Canadians importers et cetera.
The next question comes from Mark Gulley of BGC Financial.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got couple questions left.
One you gave a lot of indicative data in your most recent investor presentation on costs in some of the things that you've talked about today.
Are there any changes from the data we would see if we look at that 8-K? Now that the quarter's closed and now that you're looking forward to next year? Mark I think you hit the nail on the head that it's indicative I think it's pretty close.
What it's really intended to illustrate is the influence that the new HB Solar Solution tons have on the company as a whole.
And that I think continues to be very consistent.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Secondly I want to get back to this -- the premium for Trio over KCL.
One of your competitors make say a different product.
But nonetheless they're talking about maintaining some awfully high spreads given the way they look at things.
I just want to return to the subject of why you think that sulfur and magnesium in your product is going to be able to give you that really premium when you look at just the KCL part of it? You want to touch on that Kelvin? Yes.
Let me start Mark.
I think when you look at our product we've got the 3 materials in there.
And a lot of it is driven by magnesium deficiency in some of these markets.
Do you think of the Eastern Seaboard Florida and some of those high-value crops first of all and soil that tend to have some magnesium deficiencies.
So our product fits very nicely in many of those applications and that's where I guess we're able to kind of maintain or keep some of our business versus a major company with a chloride component to it.
If you look at other areas we still had success.
They built the program around a Trio or a competitor's product.
And they'll tend to continue with it if they can.
Now so far we've had success in keeping that in their mix or in their bins.
And I guess if we start seeing that weakening we have to change strategies.
But today we feel like we can maintain that strategy and be successful.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And finally on CapEx.
Just want to make sure I'm clear on sustaining versus growth.
So maybe Dave you could look at the CapEx next year in that way.
Is there any "growth CapEx" left or is the CapEx number you talked about already simply sustaining? Well I would characterize the CapEx that's being invested in wrapping up HB and wrapping up North and wrapping up West as growth CapEx.
Certainly the sustaining level we've got to be very prudent around that and make sure that we're doing the right things long term for the mine.
But in terms of brand-new projects coming into play it will be -- there will be some smaller items outside of those 3 major ones that I mentioned.
But really they're going to be geared more towards that notion of a singular focus on optimizing operations.
And I -- candidly Mark I think we need to give our teams a little bit of a break from the intensity of capital investment that has been ongoing at the sites.
I think what isn't always appreciated by the people that aren't on the ground every day is that the capital investment we've been making is investment that's been made in existing operating assets.
And so not only have you had capital projects going on within a certain geographic area and that geographic area is defined by the plant outline but you've also had -- you're trying to do that while you're operating.
So giving our guys the opportunity to essentially see contractors de-molding packing up and just allow them that more singular focus I think it's going to be a huge benefit to our team.
And I'm really looking forward to giving the guys the opportunity to shine in that environment.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Thanks for that color.
But just to bottom line that sustaining CapEx going forward will be? We've said $40 million or so historically.
I think that's probably a pretty reasonable baseline level.
That can vary plus or minus $10 million from year-to-year.
So -- but that's a good middle-of-the-road number to target I think.
The next question comes from Matthew Korn of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> It seems to me you've maybe pushed back expectations of when the brunt of the impact of the tying-in everything at West that's going hit.
I think last quarter we talked about the biggest hit in third quarter and now I'm seeing language to have maybe a more significant impact in 4Q and early next year.
Is it taking longer at all to kind of bring everything through the testing phase and the tie-in is there -- have there been more challenges like a lot of those pieces not working the way we thought it would.
Anything like that? Matt this is Dave.
The -- hopefully we didn't set expectations too aggressively on that.
I think what we started to describe even last quarter is that some of these improvements at West are going to carry us into early part of 2014.
I think year-to-date we have invested something like -- I think it's about $15 million at West might be a little bit higher than that.
And we expected that investment level is going to be probably closer to $30 million to $40 million overall.
And we're looking at adding thickener capacity and we're looking at making some significant changes in the way we screen product and run it through the rod mills.
And each of these items when you make a change it has an intended impact on one other area.
And to just re-emphasize that point I was making earlier [ph] West plant's running every day.
So you're making some of these changes on your 8-hour shutdown cycles during the week.
And I think the other piece we're trying to be very very thoughtful of is this is the feed product that goes into our North Compaction facility.
And we've turned that on we've commissioned we're making some really good product right now.
But it's not a compactor that you can just throw the kitchen sink at it's like any other piece of equipment you expect a certain quality and certain physical characteristics associated with that feed.
It's a much much more robust system than we've had and we're seeing the benefit of it.
And having that in place allows us to focus on a more diverse feed to the product that fits within the specs.
But we need to still make sure we're delivering product that meets all the quality specs.
So it's that interaction Matt that takes place.
So again I'm hoping that we haven't set expectations at levels that aren't representative.
But I really think that we're going to see some variability in the first part of '14 until we get those recovery improvement projects complete.
And we just know the timeframe takes us into the first part of the year.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate the clarification.
And then kind of given that -- all right.
And so after a lot of the CapEx spent on lingering durability issues at West in the first quarter is this -- I mean it still -- it sounds like realistically this is still a collection of assets that x HB is really around 800 000 tons a year of production.
And if that's correct -- or if that's wrong please correct me.
But then also for the fourth quarter when HB starts to contribute how much -- what kind of tonnage if at all -- what kind of tonnage are you expecting from HB to contribute into your expectations for the fourth quarter? Sure.
I think on your first question I'd say that's probably a fair starting point in terms of -- think of the core assets is about 800 000 tons a year and that's part of your investment and sustaining capital is to maintain that level.
Clearly the recovery improvement capability at West I think there is some very real improvement there that we have potential for.
And certainly some of the investment we've made in Moab and other locations over time we expect to see a little bit of improvement there.
But at the core you're probably looking at it right.
I think on HB what we've said is we expect total production during '14 to be somewhere in that -- what did we say 50 000 to 100 000 ton number Gary? And that's probably indicative.
We'll probably be closer to maybe 1/3 2/3 1/4 or 3/4 type of ratio in terms of what comes through in the first half of the year and what comes through in the harvest that starts in the fall based on what we know right now.
The next question comes from Bill Carroll of UBS.
Research Division</strong> As you move beyond your heavy CapEx spending period and start generating free cash flow can you start talking -- can you talk about your capital allocation priorities? Is the plan just to build up cash on the balance sheet to a certain level before you feel comfortable contemplating any shareholder rewards? Bill this is Dave.
I think on the free cash flow piece of it that's going to be a major focus for us in 2014.
When we -- if we get to that point earlier than later starting to see the accumulation of cash then we're going to look at items probably along the following lines: we're going to see what internal opportunities we have and if we've got very very strong IRR projects we'll likely consider those first.
I think that's probably where our shareholders would like to see investment made if they've got adequate rates of return.
I think given some of the pricing scenarios that are -- all the research banks have put out there I think we'd be silly to say we're going to pick a date to start looking at repurchases looking at dividends.
Because frankly there are some models out there that are pretty -- we need to be very mindful of how we're operating the assets.
So our focus is like I mentioned we're going to be on optimizing the operations through the year.
We're going to get to a free-cash scenario and we'll evaluate where we're at in the market.
I think we've proven that when we have cash flow available we're going to make decisions that we think appropriately reward our shareholders.
And that's a piece that I'd really leave you with on it is -- we've got very good alignment on that and very good recognition of what our relative opportunities are and we're going to -- I think we're going to continue to make good decisions around that.
Brock it looks like at this time we have -- we've gone a little over we have time for one more question then we'll wrap up please.
The last question today comes from Charles Neivert of Cowen.
LLC Research Division</strong> You've talked about probably not a whole lot of change in terms of imported product coming in next year.
And yet what we're looking at is probably a decline in corn acres for instance and I don't know if that's all going to get offset.
I mean how do you see your overall acreage not just corn but the overall acreage in the U.S.
doing? What do you see that doing next year? And then how are you going to get growth out of that and start getting into the inventories that you've been building? And it looks like next quarter you're going to have another inventory build on top of -- in both Trio and in potash so how do we sort of get that story together? We've got possibly lower acres higher inventories how does that not translate into a cutback in production somehow? Charles let me try that it's Kelvin here.
Right now farmers are going to make decisions -- they're starting to make decisions on which fields they're going to put into corn beans whatever else.
I think what you got to think about with regard to Intrepid is we're playing in a lot of diverse markets on the ag side.
So our Carlsbad product goes not only into the Midwest but it goes into the Southern Plains there's a significant amount of pasture ground there.
We're seeing a growing herd of cattle so that demand looks good.
The drought is abating so just that alone will drive some confidence at the farm gate and likely higher application rates.
If you think about the Pacific Northwest those are very different crops up there and they intend to grow significant -- or decent yields.
And really that drives potash demand up in that region.
So I think there's still lots of talk around is it 90 million acres of corn next year or what is that number I think it's pretty early to tell.
And for farmers they're going to make those decisions as we move forward here over the next couple months.
And I guess we see supplying a decent amount to the Midwest but also into many other areas.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess that covers that.
Again I just can't reconcile how we had higher numbers on acres so it doesn't look like it's going to change much and maybe has a chance of going down.
Certainly affordability is fine but I just don't know how I get all those numbers reconciling especially if you go through inventory as well.
Yes.
And I think a piece I touched on a little bit earlier Charlie.
I'm not sure if you were -- had caught that.
But if you look at third quarter or pardon me fourth quarter third quarter that's fine either one.
The difference between our production and our sales numbers those aren't huge numbers.
And it's actually a very purposeful situation that we need to go through each -- towards the end of each year to make sure we're prepared for the next spring.
So we're not sitting on lots of inventory.
You can look at the IPNI data that's just not indicative of Intrepid.
And so for all the reasons we've touched on very good diversity in the market diversity of crops that we serve.
I think frankly the markets that are close and the ones that we serve continue to represent multiples in the 5 to 6x of what we produce in 1 year.
And as Kelvin touched on as well we're -- we have got those relationships in place and have opportunities to serve additional locations for more customers.
So we feel like we're in pretty good position on that.
And maybe being more focused on the domestic market and having that marketing plan around it we really feel it's an advantage for us.
We really appreciate everybody taking their time to dial in today and we appreciate your interest in Intrepid.
We look forward to speaking with everyone in the future.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Thank you for participating and have a pleasant day.
Thank you for standing by.
This is the Chorus Call conference operator.
Welcome to the Intrepid Potash 2014 First Quarter Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Gary Kohn Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead Mr.
Kohn.
Presenting on today's call are Bob Jornayvaz Executive Chairman of the Board; Dave Honeyfield President and Chief Financial Officer; and Kelvin Feist Senior Vice President of Sales and Marketing.
Also in the room with us today are John Mansanti Senior Vice President of Operations; Martin Litt Executive Vice President and General Counsel; and Brian Frantz Vice President of Finance and our Chief Accounting Officer.
I would like to remind everyone that statements made on this call that are not historical fact or that express the belief expectation or intention including statements about our financial and operational outlook are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the United States securities laws.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are based on a number of assumptions which we believe are reasonable.
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from our expectations.
You can find more information about these risks and uncertainties in our annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q as filed with the SEC.
Our first quarter 10-Q will be filed later today.
Also during today's call we will refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Our earnings press release includes reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures.
Our SEC filings and press releases are available on our website at intrepidpotash.com.
With that I will turn the call over to Bob.
Thanks Gary.
Good morning and welcome to our conference call.
Thank you so much for joining us.
As the first quarter results show we're off to a solid start to this important year for Intrepid.
In 2014 we are committed to optimizing our operations and we're beginning to see the value of the major capital project work that is coming to completion.
We ended last year experiencing the convergence of lower prices and the higher costs brought about while we were building new assets and modernizing others.
In the first quarter we saw potash pricing stabilize and we were well positioned in the marketing front to respond to our customers' needs with a product placed very close to them.
We brought down our per ton cost -- operating costs from the fourth quarter.
Improved operating results from our East facility and good sales levels from our Utah facilities drove most of the per ton cost reduction.
Our expectation is to continue to lower costs due to the new North Compaction plant being fully operational.
The positive effects of HB over the next 2 years and the capital work at the West plant delivers higher production rates starting in the second half of this year.
The combination of these projects together with a consistent delivery of low-cost high-quality production from our Moab and Wendover facilities and ongoing improvements in the operations at East all contribute to a stronger and more resilient company.
The North facility is fully operational with all 3 compactor lines in service.
With the new North plant in service we are manufacturing high-quality granulated potash for delivery into the market today and we have the capacity to granulate 100% of the potash we produce in Carlsbad.
This provides us the flexibility to choose the best sales opportunity available based on margin whether it is for the standard or granulated product and flex our production to the market.
Furthermore by optimizing West and North as complementary systems we are implementing recovery and process improvements not previously available to us with the old assets to lower production costs at West.
The HB Solar Solution mine will lower our cash cost per ton later this year and in the future years as the production ramps up with each of the next 2 successive harvests.
The addition of these low-cost tons has the potential to bring our total company per ton cash operating costs down by more than 10% from the current levels as the HB cash operating costs per ton are around half the blended costs of the non-HB assets.
A meaningful portion of our step-down in operating costs for the second half of this year will come from our expected full year HB production of 50 000 to 100 000 tons most of which will be produced from the harvest following the summer's evaporation season.
All of these cost improvements are coming when pricing has stabilized.
Our first quarter average net realized sales price was stronger than we had expected and we believe we'll again be among the highest among North American producers.
We were able to sell a large volume of potash in the quarter because of the favorable demand dynamics as buyers' moods changed.
Complementing the improved confidence of buyers was our ability to deliver tons to the market in the quarter because we had tons positioned close to the markets that we serve.
This allowed us to provide product and complete sales with customers during a time when rail shipments throughout the industry were hampered as the major railroad operators struggled with car availability and velocity.
I'm encouraged by our trajectory this year.
Our unwavering commitment to optimize our operations has set the stage for more favorable results and most notably the ability to generate free cash flow in 2014.
As I said in my opening statement this is a very important year for us.
We are well situated with distribution capabilities in key markets we serve a diverse customer base with high-quality products we operate at full production rates and sell what we produce and we will bring cash operating costs down in the second half of this year as HB ramps up and the other major capital projects deliver on the expected benefits of improved recovery.
Now I will have Kelvin provide more color on our first quarter sales performance and the current market environment.
Thanks Bob.
Potash demand was strong in the first quarter.
Buyers' overall confidence turned positive as a result of the announced price increases and the settlement of the contracts in China and India.
In response our customers made purchases in advance of the spring season.
We sold 242 000 tons of potash in the first quarter 31% more than we sold in the first quarter of last year.
As our first half outlook suggests we believe the second quarter sales volume will remain strong assuming cooperation from the weather and the railroad's ability to meet our freight needs.
Our average net realized price for potash was $317 per ton in the first quarter.
While this is down 6% sequentially from the fourth quarter potash prices have stabilized in the last couple of months.
We expect to gain a few more dollars per ton on our average net realized sales price for potash in the second quarter as the broader domestic market adjusts to the previously announced reference price.
As we look forward to the second half of the year we believe the continued movement of the product by global producers will be important for maintaining price momentum as we are all aware of the supply dynamics in the market.
Reiterating what Bob highlighted our geographically advantaged assets and logistic strategy were essential to our potash sales and price performance in the quarter.
We were able to deliver products from our facilities via truck to customers located in close proximity to our plants and had thoughtfully positioned product as far forward in the chain as possible last quarter.
Contributing to our successful quarter was the continued strong demand for our industrial and feed customers highlighting a benefit of the diversity of the end markets in which we sell.
Looking at Trio first quarter sales were down slightly from last year's quarter but up from the fourth quarter.
Trio pricing was down modestly 1% sequentially in the fourth quarter and 3% in the first quarter of 2013.
Pricing particularly for granular and premium products has remained resilient relative to the trends in potash pricing.
Trio demand in the second quarter will be higher than we saw in the first quarter with deliveries from warehouses and most of the field applications occurring in the spring months.
The percentage of our Trio sales into the export market in Q1 was lower than historical periods.
As spring domestic Trio demand winds down we may look to sell some of our available inventory into the export market.
This is a normal sales pattern for us.
It helps balance our inventory and ensure that we maintain a presence in the export market.
These export channels typically carry a lower net realized price.
With strong customer demand for granular and premium products we will continue to work to increase our production levels at Trio to meet this demand.
Thanks.
I will now turn the call over to Dave.
Thanks Kelvin.
We had a modest net loss in the first quarter.
We successfully narrowed the loss and mitigated the price impact by delivering on the 3 keys that I highlighted in our last call as essential to returning Intrepid to profitability and positive free cash flow.
First we lowered our per ton cash operating costs from the fourth quarter by 8% for potash and 4% for Trio.
In fact despite lower prices we grew our gross margin for potash and held the Trio gross margin flat from the fourth quarter.
Excluding depreciation we actually expanded our margin for both products from quarter-to-quarter.
Second we reduced our expense run rate with a workforce reduction and other specific cost savings measures.
We brought down our SG&amp;A expense by 13% from the fourth quarter and 29% from the comparable period last year and we expect to have a meaningful reduction in our SG&amp;A expense for 2014.
And third we're closely managing our capital investment level.
With the completion of our major capital projects we have reduced our capital investments significantly this year from recent years to total between $40 million and $50 million in 2014.
In the second half of this year the operational and financial benefits from our capital investment program will become even more evident.
We expect to drive down our potash cash operating costs by approximately 10% per ton in the second half of this year as we produce more tons from HB and West.
The progress we've made with our new HB Solar Solution mine is impressive.
In the first quarter we produced approximately 13 000 tons from HB giving me confidence that we will hit our target of full year production of 50 000 to 100 000 tons.
Overall the start-up has gone well.
We've identified and corrected the minor commissioning bottlenecks and the mill is performing consistent with our expectations.
The next harvest following the summer evaporation season will be larger and we already have some visibility into how that will go.
All the indicators we use to predict the results of that harvest are tracking with our expectations.
We're injecting brine into the mine works on pace with design we're extracting potassium-enriched brine and filling the ponds timely to take advantage of the summer evaporation season and we're seeing the KCL grades that support our predicted harvest.
In simple terms we feel good about HB today as we're filling the mines at a strong rate and we have a mill that's running as designed.
As a reminder at full production rates of 150 000 to 200 000 tons per year cash operating costs will be in the range of $80 to $100 per ton.
The first quarter experienced what are likely to be the highest HB costs as the process is always at its least efficient during start-up and as we spread those costs over a relatively small production base.
I'd characterize the $2.9 million of our lower cost for market adjustment in the first quarter that was attributed to HB really more as a start-up loss in the commissioning phase of a new operation and I expect we'll probably have another $1 million of LCM costs associated with HB in the second quarter as we complete this initial harvest.
HB cash operating costs will trend down this year and into the next as we have higher production levels with the second harvest season starting late this summer.
Moving to our West plant.
The final West upgrades are being constructed and installed and we're making the adjustments in our processes to improve recoveries.
Through these improvements to West and the capabilities afforded to us with the new North plant we'll increase our West production leading to lower per ton cash operating costs.
We increased our premium Trio production again this quarter as we moved closer to meeting our original premium production target.
Our net Trio production however was down sequentially as we incurred product losses during the process of converting standard-sized product into premium-sized product.
This lower net production result led to elevated per ton cash operating costs in the quarter.
The team is continuing testing and making adjustments in the plant to improve our production process of premium-sized product to allow us to meet the existing demand as well as to improve our efficiency and lower our per ton Trio cash operating costs.
Overall I'm pleased with the first quarter progress and I believe that our commitment to optimization is the right focus for us at this time.
I see that we're setting ourselves up in a sustainable manner to deliver the margin and cash flow opportunities we expect from our investments.
We are focused on the right set of objectives and on the ongoing optimization of our assets that will allow us to lower costs increase production and strengthen Intrepid even more.
Joe at this time we're ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question today is from Chris Parkinson of Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> You've mentioned some production at West was affected by lower ore grade and reduced recoveries.
Can you comment on what you expect in the second quarter and also for the balance of the year? And then also from a longer-term perspective can you also add in your expectations regarding the benefits of North now that you've started to see some of its benefits? Sure Chris.
A couple of things.
On the ore grade I think what we had talked about is as we've moved into just different parts of the ore body that's really what has led to some of the capital improvements that we've put in place which include adjustments in the crushing and grinding circuit the screening we're adding a new thickener.
So what that does is it really creates additional capacity for us in terms of the number of tons that we can take to the mill.
We're completing that thickener project here at the end of the second quarter.
So really the expectation is that the recovery percentage will start to increase really in the second half of the year and that's when we anticipate seeing overall that the cash costs per ton will come down at that West facility.
And then when we talk about North I think the important thing to recognize is that the North plant is where we compact all the production that comes in from HB and from West.
And what we've seen simply is that the equipment that was installed it's just much more powerful.
It's able to run at higher pressures and higher temperatures.
So what we've been able to do out of our West plant in particular is we're making adjustments frankly to the way we size the product coming out of the plant.
It allows us to have a better efficiency in our flotation cells.
It allows us to look at different reagent schemes that are -- we think are going to yield a higher recovery because we can simply run that plant differently to take advantage of the power that we've installed over at the North plant.
So they really do work as a system and I think add a lot of flexibility to the operation that looks pretty positive based on what we're seeing at this point.
The next question is from Mark Connelly of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Dave 2 things.
As Bob said you've spent the last couple of years mostly on projects and now you can shift over more towards execution.
I think we've underestimated the impact of the distraction of those projects.
So how do you think about where we are in that finishing-up process? Many of the projects are done.
West is sort of finishing up.
I guess I'm trying to figure out how much of a lingering impact of those projects is -- in the distraction is still there.
And is June -- because you're talking about the second half is June really a good breakpoint for us to be thinking about or is there more of a -- is there more going on still that is still going to be a distraction until later in the year? Sure.
It's a great question Mark and it's one that I think we really started to highlight for folks I think in the middle part of last summer that we just needed to take a step back and wrap up the projects that we have.
And we kind of characterize it as just a beehive of activity there where we would have 300-type contractors on-site every day trying to coordinate lifts and tie-ins with the plants.
So it was a recognition that we had certainly last year and one that frankly feels very good to allow the team to have a much more singular focus.
The reason for the transition point really in the middle part of the year is that we know that the way HB is set up and the fact that you have a summer harvest -- or summer evaporation season and you're through that initial harvest so we'll see a stronger harvest having full ponds for a full year at HB.
And that starts to happen in the fall.
And then the other big piece is that we have the work completed at West.
So it's nice to see the constructor -- or the construction sites getting broken down.
We used to have 200 people on-site at HB and we have 4 or 5 there just doing wrap-up work in little bits and pieces.
And our guys are really zeroed in on how do we do this.
Because if you think about it we put the new plant in at Moab we put the new plant in at Wendover we have the Trio plant we've rebuilt West North is a new facility.
So getting the value out of that is key and pretty confident that we're going to see the benefits.
So that really -- hopefully it explains why that second half of the year is where that inflection point starts to come in.
Research Division</strong> So the contractors are down to what overall across the system? John do you have a sense on that? I mean I think it's -- you can count it on a couple of hands here at this point.
It's tens versus hundreds.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Just one more question.
When we think about the drought that we're having and the prospect for El Nio are you planning for a different geography of sales this year? Kelvin do you want to? Yes.
I'll take that Mark.
I guess we've built a structure that we think is durable through droughts floods everything else because we've lived that in our Texas market here a couple of years ago.
We had went [ph] through some some flooding in Missouri back in I believe it was '11.
So I think we've got a geographical footprint that we're very comfortable with today and that just allows us to sell all the tons that we produce at a very good margin.
So I would say that today we're not changing our distribution patterns as a result of what may come in the future.
Yes we're well positioned.
If and when it rains in Texas that market will return with -- in a very very robust fashion.
And when you see rain in the Southwest it leads you to much larger better hay crops which takes you to more cattle on feed which takes you to more corn.
So drought -- you know the last 4 years where we have managed effectively through drought in our primary truck markets we've enabled ourselves to diversify geographically.
But we're still ready to really service those markets.
So I hope that answers your question.
The next question is from Matthew Korn of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> This is Kimberly.
This is for Matthew.
Can I just get a sense of your pricing expectation for potash and whether you think that at this point we've topped out because we've hit strong seasonal demand? Or what could really help potash pricing move up from here? Kelvin do you want to start on that? Yes through [ph] that.
I think the biggest piece is we need to see the demand internationally.
I think we've seen some of that through the -- some of the contracts in India and China and most recently in Southeast Asia.
I guess that needs to continue to enable the supply-demand to be balanced.
I would say closer to home domestically we see a pretty firm outlook.
We're -- right now there's a number of shortages in the area.
It's more so because of distribution.
But we've had success in a recent increase and I guess there's a little bit of momentum behind that.
So we feel as if we're -- we sort of hit the bottom and we've come off that bottom now.
The next question is from Don Carson of Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP Research Division</strong> It's Sandy Klugman sitting in for Don.
Question when you discussed your added warehouse positions in the Midwest how much of the tonnage in storage reflects your own product? And then to what extent have you stepped up the use of consignment sales? Sandy this is Dave.
Why don't I -- I'll start on that.
And Kelvin if I miss something please don't hesitate to hop in.
What we've done is we've just very strategically looked to get closer to our customers Sandy and I think we -- you've heard us say over the years that whether that's through a physical asset whether it's through a contractual relationship we just -- we acknowledge that we need to take out some of the risk that frankly has highlighted the second quarter with the railroads and others that if we can keep shipping product continually to get it in place we know that the sales might be a little bit chunky.
But having it close to the market is just very important.
And I think as we touched on this was our -- we bought our first warehouse last year.
That's worked very well for us.
It allowed us to have product in position and cycle trains back and forth to the extent that the system would allow.
And it's just one of those items that getting closer to the customer we recognize is really going to be a key in these types of markets where you just don't see price heading in one direction up and guys are always going to be fairly prudent about what their working capital requirements are at the dealer level.
Yes.
And without going into a lot of details I just -- philosophically by purchasing our first warehouse by participating in different types of warehouse agreements we have a different philosophy than some of our competitors as it relates to moving product forward.
And so I really don't want to go into the nuances but we have invested our own capital and assets.
And so we've tried to optimize our forward positioning without giving up a lot of control of our product.
Sandy maybe I can just touch on a couple of things.
I think what we've got to recognize is that the farmer capability out there today is much stronger than it was 10 years ago.
So they can get their crop in the ground probably within 10 days now whereas it used to take a better part of the month.
I think beyond the warehouses we look to things like whole tracks [ph] to get us into various markets so we can quickly serve the needs of the customer.
I think also investing in transloads where we're not able to access certain geographies that helps us as well.
So there's a number of things that we're employing from a logistics or distribution point of view that have helped us this spring and I think will help us in the future.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just to follow up on the pricing outlook.
Your domestic realizations were about 20% higher than one of your large Canadian competitors.
I know some of that price strength resulted from tight marketing conditions resulting from rail-related shipment delays.
But I know it's a bit early.
But as you think about Summerfield pricing what are your expectations for whether or not prices could soften as some of these logistical constraints ease? Well I'm going to take the first part of that.
I think our diversification of products and the diversification of markets especially in the industrial markets and as we see the feed market -- I don't want to say recovering but strengthening a bit I think that diversification is a huge element that just sometimes gets forgotten.
I think we're seeing good firm discussions.
And so I really want to use that word firm because that's how the market feels right now.
And so with that I'll let Kelvin add to that.
Yes.
I think also there's -- I mean I think farmers and our customers see good value in where we're at on price today.
So I mean I personally don't see a significant decline in the near future.
I think there's some strength there as Bob suggests.
So we believe we're kind of at a level here that warrants some pretty good value for our products.
So I mean I guess I believe that we're going to see it fill at levels like today's reference price.
The next question is from Joel Jackson of BMO Capital Markets.
Talking about Trio very strong Trio pricing in the quarter.
Maybe you can talk about the premium now expanding over potash.
What happens to mix in terms of -- you obviously were a little production-constrained in the quarter.
So maybe went after some higher-margin opportunities and in particular had a bigger shift towards domestic versus offshore.
So how that affected sort of the premium and where you see that going in Q2 and the second half? Well the first part of that that I really want to make sure we understand is that our new pellet plant is still being commissioned.
And so as we are able to take our standard and find Trio and pelletize it is -- I hate to use the word art but we're learning it is an art and not so much of a science.
But we're seeing sequential month-over-month improvements in our ability to create a premium product which we can then market very readily.
We're also seeing certain of those markets expand.
We're seeing growth in those markets.
We're not having to go out and in any way shape or form buy those markets.
So we believe because of the value of the Trio product the diversification of the minerals inside the Trio we see great value and our customers see value.
And it's so clearly reflected in the price resilience.
I mean I just -- I can't emphasize enough how the resiliency in the Trio pricing indicates the value that the customers see in it.
Kelvin you want to add to that? Well maybe I'll just touch on it.
Granular has been somewhat limited for us so I guess the advent of additional premium supplies helped us a bunch.
We've kind of tried to segregate those 2 a little bit.
I would say that the premium tends to go into the blending and spreading and more into the Midwest and the other blend markets like the Pacific Northwest so -- and Texas as well.
So I think we've had pretty good success in keeping or supplying what the customer wants.
And some of them prefer premium to granular some prefer granular to premium.
So we've had good success with both products.
Okay.
And on the potash obviously your domestic shipments were quite strong year-over-year up.
We've seen the industry data say that domestic shipments and domestic producers were very strong.
Maybe you could talk about the part of that that comes embedded overall consumption versus some logistical challenges that would've impacted production down from Canada or up on the River [ph].
And then the second question would be you talked about maybe having some more price momentum in potash.
In the last couple of years we've seen $20 to $25 reductions in Summerfield prices.
Would you not expect that this year? Joel this is Dave.
I think on the -- how strong the first quarter was and was that driven by some of the logistic constraints out of the North I think more than anything it was driven by the fact that fall last year was really skinny.
And it took a little bit of confidence on the buyer side to start getting product in position for the spring.
And when we saw that price announcement come out in the first part of February that was really the trigger point.
So like we touched on we were fortunate that we had product in position.
We tend to be able to move a little bit more quickly than our competitors in taking advantage of price announce -- announcements of price increase.
And we were able to pull a little bit of that into this quarter.
So when I -- Kelvin touched on it in his comments that really we expect pricing to be a few dollars higher next -- or in the second quarter here.
And I think for the reasons we've touched on you kind of have to put it in perspective that the potash price today is $100 less give or take than it was a year ago.
And a year ago farmers weren't -- we weren't hearing pushback on pricing.
So Kelvin's comments earlier that there's good value out there and people understand it and there's a perception of a firm market I think those are the reasons why we're expecting that we'll see pricing through the fill at today's reference price.
Joel let me just comment again.
Last year we were not really having price discussions until the Russians came in and did what they did.
And the Russians -- and the Belarusian situation created tremendous buyer doubt and reticence to get in the market.
Even though they were already in there and purchasing at significantly higher prices compared to this year we weren't having price discussions with our domestic consumers.
The other thing I'd say in the first quarter is that we too had logistical problems.
We too had the opportunities to potentially ship more tons and had our own logistical problems.
So that's why we continue to believe that we're going to see a firm market because there's -- there really is good strong demand out there.
We had good strong demand domestically last year until the doubt that was created by the Russian situation.
So I hope that gives you just a little bit more color.
The last question for today would be from Andrew Wong of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to go talk about the inventory levels.
They look a little bit high for the last few quarters relative to historical levels.
Is that a function of trying to place tons closer to dealers and some of your consignment tons? And is this a new level that we can expect going forward? Andrew this is Dave.
I'll touch on it and Kelvin certainly can add some specific detail as to levels.
But I think what we've recognized is -- keep in mind how skinny the fall was last year.
So without a doubt there was a little bit of a buildup in inventory.
We have seen potash inventory come down even with a good production quarter given the strength of the market.
But yes without a doubt we're going to try to make sure that we level out some of the shipping peaks that exist in our business so that frankly we mitigate the risk of freight and logistic issues.
So you're going to see us moving product closer to the field.
Some of those are just -- we're moving our inventory into our warehouse some of it is in moving our inventory into a contractual warehouse that we have.
So I think that's fair.
And certainly John Mansanti and Kelvin work very closely in this -- on the sales and marketing side to make sure that we have an adequate level of inventory in the barn.
Because trying to run with 5 000 tons of buffer just really creates some operational challenges.
So I think we recognize that there's a level that we'd like to have in the warehouse system.
You can respond to near-term surges that come.
And we always want to make sure we've got tons available for our truck market because those tend to be our highest-margin tons.
So Kelvin anything to add to that? Yes.
I think that -- just the biggest thing.
It's just being a reliable supplier you need to have inventory.
And so we've -- we're carrying a little bit more but that allows us to be that reliable supplier to our customer.
And I think previously we were in an uncomfortable position because we were so low on inventory.
So I would say that we're able to better manage our business with a little bit of inventory.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess just as a follow-on.
So how do you evaluate the return that you get from using some additional capital to make sure you have products in place? Andrew this is Dave.
We're very -- we're just margin driven as a company.
So in terms of moving product forward into a location a big part of it is if your product's there it's going to be your ton that sells.
That's -- that one is pretty binary.
I think in terms of our decision are we going to invest in a warehouse location are we going to invest in loadout that becomes a question of frankly what's the bottleneck that exists? And the bottleneck oftentimes is freight logistics.
So if we can derisk that then frankly for the same investment dollars you get a more predictable and more reliable stream.
And overall those are some of the key considerations in terms of where we're making that investment in terms of getting warehousing loadout trade-offs et cetera.
So hopefully that answers the question you asked.
If not...
Also when you try to calculate the rate of return on the warehouse that you've purchased you clearly have the income levels from throughput charges that generate a rate of return.
But I just can't emphasize the abstract or intrinsic values of being able to loadout when you want to loadout to move tons when you want to move tons so that you're not having to invest additional capital in loadout facilities.
The timing benefits the ability to work with a railroad those are all intrinsic or abstract income benefits that also add to the return on capital when you make those -- when you make an investment like that.
So there's both the income piece which allows you to achieve hurdle rates but there's also innumerable abstract cost -- abstract benefits that go along with that.
Well we really appreciate everybody taking time to dial in.
We appreciate your thoughtful questions and your interest in Intrepid.
So we look forward to speaking to everybody in the near future here.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may disconnect your lines.
Thank you for participating.
Have a pleasant day.
Thank you for standing by.
This is the conference operator.
Welcome to the Intrepid Potash 2014 Second Quarter Conference Call.
As a reminder all participants are in a listen-only mode and the conference is being recorded.
After the presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
(Operator Instructions) At this time Id like to turn the conference over to Gary Kohn Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Brock.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us for our second quarter conference call.
Presenting on todays call will be Bob Jornayvaz our Executive Chairman Dave Honeyfield President and Chief Financial Officer and Kelvin Feist Senior Vice President of Sales and Marketing.
Also in the room with us today are Hugh Harvey Executive Vice Chairman of the Board Martin Litt Executive Vice President and General Counsel Brian Frantz Vice President-Finance Controller and Chief Accounting Officer.
I would like to remind everyone that statements made on this call that are not historical fact or theyre express of belief expectation or intention including statements about our financial and operational outlook are forward looking statements within the meaning of the United States Security Laws.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are based on a number of assumptions which we believe are reasonable.
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from our expectations.
You can find more information about these risks and uncertainties in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q as filed with the SEC.
We will be filing our second quarter Form 10-Q later today.
During todays call we will refer to certain non-GAAP financial and operational measures.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included in yesterdays pres release.
Our SEC filings and press releases are available on our Web site at intrepidpotash.com.
I will now turn the call over to Bob.
Good morning and welcome everyone.
Thank you for joining us.
As you read yesterday Dave Honeyfield will be leaving Intrepid on August 29th in order to pursue an opportunity with the new venture in the oil and gas industry.
I on behalf of the Board and the employees want to personally thank Dave for his outstanding leadership and his unparalleled dedication to Intrepid during his six year career with us.
He was instrumental in the execution of the strategy to invest in our assets and has driven an emphasis in process improvement that has significantly strengthened our company.
I appreciate Daves thoughtfulness and his timing of his decision.
His departure comes at a time when we are through the major capital investment phase the trends in our business are moving in a much more positive direction our cash and liquidity position is extremely solid and we have in place a world class well functioning management team in Denver and at all of our sites.
We have an orderly succession and transition plan in place.
Dave will be with us through the end of August at which time Brian Frantz who has held essential senior finance roles and has been an important member of Daves team since 2010 will assume the role of Interim CFO and I will reassume the duties of President and Chief Executive Officer.
Since I founded the original Intrepid Production Corporation in 1984 nearly 30 years ago which is still an ongoing and significant oil and gas company.
And Hugh Harvey and I founded the mining company back in 2000.
Ive spent many years with direct responsibility for day-to-day activities and Im eager and invigorated to step back into the role of growing this great company.
So thank you Dave and we wish you great success in your new venture.
Now turning to our results through our focus on operations and our multiyear capital investment program we are delivering on our plan of improved financial and operational performance.
In fact we returned to profitability in the second quarter and generated improved cash flows.
We accomplished this by successfully lowering our per ton cash operating costs for the last two quarters by delivering on our sales plans and through stronger pricing for potash and Trio.
We have created a more favorable trajectory in our business the last two quarters and I'm confident in our ability to continue these positive trends.
Looking to the second half our expectations are clear.
We will continue to make progress in reducing our cash operating cost per ton per potash and Trio.
We will increase production and optimize our operations and we will plan for robust sales volume at the highest net average realized sales price in North America through our many advantages including our distribution strategy in our diverse customer base and markets.
The ingredients to driving cash operating cost down remain unchanged.
Increasing production of our lower cost solar solution tons and reducing operating cost of our conventionally mined tons.
We have successful initial harvest from our HB Solar Solution Mine good production of 31 000 tons during the first half of this year.
This has us well on our way to achieving our HB production goals.
Importantly as we continue to ramp up according to plan we are seeing the expected step down in HBs per ton cash operating cost.
On the conventional mining side the ongoing work at our west facility remains a key component in our plan.
The West plant accounts for about half of our total potash production so it has a significant impact on our overall per ton cost structure.
The project is underway at West are designed to stabilize and ultimately increase production with a corresponding reduction in cash operating cost per ton.
The North facility is fully operational now.
With our completely new North plan we are manufacturing the highest quality granular product that enhances our ability to deploy are close to the customers strategy.
The new plant has the capacity to granulate all of our West and HB production which gives us the flexibility to pursue sales opportunities with the most attractive margin be it for standard or granular product.
Furthermore the improved capabilities at the North plant make it possible  make possible the process modifications and recovery improvements at West not available with our prior dated compaction system.
These positive operational steps we have taken are complemented by another quarter of strong sales performance and improved pricing.
Kelvin will now provide more insight on these accomplishments.
Kelvin? Thank Bob.
The strong retail demand for potash and Trio in the second quarter left warehouse with little or no inventory.
Farmers saw good value in potassium this spring and applied our products to maximize their return per acre.
Summer purchasing activity was also very strong.
Typically summer fill pricing is discounted to spring price purchasing levels to encourage the recharge of warehouses.
In contrast to this historical pattern we saw solid potash pricing for summer fill in response to good demand and tight inventory levels of granular potash in the market.
We sold 235 000 tons of potash in the second quarter bringing the total sales volume for the first half of the year to 478 000 tons.
This is a 30% increase from the first half of 2013.
Were able to significantly increase our load out rates and offset many of the logistical issues from the challenging rail service in the spring.
Through our actions we were able to deliver sales sustain a price advantage and strengthen customer relationships.
We are seeing a market environment that supports continued strength in our sales in the second half of the year as our outlook suggests.
We had a strong order book for the second half of the year and consistent with our strategy we expect to be selling into the market based on our production schedule.
We had a net realized price for potash of $329 per short ton in the second quarter $12 more per ton that we earned in the first quarter.
This marks the first quarterly price increase we have realized in over three years.
We expect pricing for potash to remain stable for the remainder of this year.
We had an even more successful sales quarter and first half for Trio.
We sold 62 000 tons in the second quarter and a total of 98 000 tons during the first half of 2014 a full 32% increase compared to last years first half.
The demand in the domestic market for our granular and Premium Trio continues to be strong.
With this strength we have focused our efforts on producing more of the high value Trio products for the domestic market and are seeing a positive result in sales volume pricing and margin.
This resulted in an increase in net realized and net average realized sales price for the second quarter to $350 per ton for Trio demonstrating the value of improving production flexibility that we have built into the system.
Thanks and I will now turn the call over to Dave.
Thanks Kelvin.
Our return to profitability and strengthened cash position this quarter were attributable to our continued focus on the three main objectives that I highlighted is essential for our success at the beginning of the year.
First were executing on lowering our per ton cash operating cost building on the trend that we started at the beginning of this year we lowered our cash operating cost per ton 8% for potash and 11% for Trio from the first quarter.
Secondly were maintaining the appropriate sized SG&amp;A cost structure resulting in reduced SG&amp;A expense of 24% in the first half of this year from the comparable period last year.
And third were managing our capital investment level.
Our planned capital investments this year are in the range of $40 million to $50 million a significant reduction from the approximate $250 million in each of the last two years.
The trend in the second half of 2014 is for per ton potash cash operating cost to be lower than the first half with the fourth quarter being the lowest single quarter for the year.
There will be small quarter-to-quarter fluctuations on the way and were expecting that the standalone per ton cash operating cost for potash in the third quarter will be slightly higher than what we reported this quarter.
This is a direct result of the planned maintenance per ounce scheduled at our East and West operations in the third quarter and the seasonality associated with our solar operations.
The planned maintenance work should take about a week at each facility.
The reason for mentioning this is only to make you aware that this work and the impact have always been in our plan.
Our long-term trends of lowering our per ton cash operating cost remain firmly intact as the harvest of the solar solution mined tons from our operations commences in the mid to late part of the third quarter following the prime summer evaporation season.
Also as a technical accounting note I want to acknowledge that we have increased our second half cash operating cost outlook for potash by $5 per ton.
Its important to understand that this change does not reflect an increase in anticipated gross cost nor does it impact gross margin profitability or cash flows rather this is a change in the classification on the income statement.
As the sales price expectations for potash improved since we last provided our outlook on April 30th we have less cost going through the lower cost to market adjustment line in the second half of the year than previously expected.
As these costs will now flow through normal cash operating cost.
Getting back to the business discussion I just want to remind folks of a couple specific items related to the trends to lower cash operating cost per ton.
The first is related to the new HB Solar Solution Mine production.
The continued addition of the low cost HB tons in the second half and into the future years will continue to have a positive influence on our company wide per ton cash operating costs.
When HB is running at its full production rate of 150 000 to 200 000 tons annually in late 2015 its cash operating cost is expected to be in the $80 to $100 per ton range.
The second item is the impact of the capital investment work thats nearing completions at the West mine.
Through these investments and the execution of our operating plan we have lowered our per ton potash cash operating cost at West from the high point of cost we saw in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Our improved operating cost is the result of our pro active investments that we purposely designed and committed to in order to address the expected variability of the ore body.
The last major component of the West upgrade plan is the completion of the thickener project.
When completed in August this final piece will complement the increased mining capacity that we have invested in during the previous years.
We are pleased with the trends in our business and what we have built upon in the first half of this year.
We have either completed or nearing completion of our major capital projects and are beginning to realize the benefits.
Our cash operating cost per ton are trending in the right direction.
Pricing is stabilized and even rebounded from the floor.
Weve achieved strong sales volumes by executing on our thoughtful and flexible marketing strategy; weve strengthened our cash position and overall balance sheet.
And importantly were capitalizing on the margin and cash flow opportunity that we have created.
We expect the positive trajectory to continue as we build momentum and further realized the benefits from our competitive advantages of being well-situated with distribution capabilities in key markets of serving a diverse customer base with high quality products and operating our facilities at full production rates and selling of what we produce to realize the best average net realized sales prices in North America.
With that were ready to turn it over for questions.
Hi this is Christine Monroe here stepping in for Ben Isaacson.
I just wanted to ask a question about the capital projects; as they're winding down what the plans are over the next few years.
Were just trying to get an understanding of how you think about capital allocation going forward? Ill start with that.
Fortunately we are on the tail end of every one of the major components and I think well easily be in the range that weve guided to between $40 million and $50 million.
I guess or are you asking about new capital projects are you asking about the wind down of the existing projects? I think we're  I mean we're asking a little bit about both and then sort of thinking about what your thoughts are going forward for capital allocation in terms of whether there are new projects or not? Well weve got a lot of great ideas in the pipeline that weve been studying on an R&amp;D basis.
So thats one of the great things about Intrepid is that weve had so many organic opportunities.
Our primary focus definitely through the rest of this year and the early months of 2015 are optimizing these great assets that weve built and taking the time without the 100s and 100s of contractors that have been on site to run these new plants at an optimal level.
Once again there is no shortage of good solid ideas that are pretty solid investment returns that weve been studying that weve been working on from an R&amp;D component.
So I think in the future you will hear about some pretty exciting ideas.
Dave would you like to add anything to that? Yes.
I think maybe just on the wind down of the current year capital program.
As you guys can see in the numbers the focus has really been on wrapping up the work at HB and all but a very small amount of that work was completed and wrapped up in the second quarter.
The North plant as Bob touched on weve completed the installation we have all three lines of that new compactor plant up and running at this point and that work is finished and then we expect to complete the work on the construction of the new thickener tank really here in August and well be commissioning that and bringing it online.
We also have some sustaining projects some of those were deferred into the back half of the year as youve seen in the numbers pretty modest capital expenditure level in the first couple of quarters.
So all that work scheduled it will take place in a very orderly fashion and just continuing to make sure that the ongoing optimization work is taking place.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
David seems like now that all the hard work is done Bob has jumped back in to take all the credit.
Two questions.
This is the second quarter that you've sold more product than you produced in both segments.
Should we assume that your inventories are now closer to where you want them? And then a second question on logistics.
You talked about being able to take advantage of your approach to distributing product.
Has that meaningfully changed your geographic distribution this quarter and should we expect that to change again as logistics go back to more normal? Mark why dont I take the inventory level question and Kelvin or Bob if you guys want to touch on the logistic piece? Yes certainly on the inventory level Mark you are right.
We really had a great run here in the second quarter and if you think about the number of different products we have in the different locations Id actually think that wed like to build a little bit of inventory here right now because weve got some fairly low levels particularly on the granular side.
That said were making sure that were working closely with our customers to time deliveries around that coordinate with production schedule.
So were Id say were probably a little bit lower than wed like to be on finished product inventory but feel good about our ability to take care of the book that Kelvins built out here through the third and fourth quarter.
Okay.
The other piece is a very integral piece of this.
Since the North completion were now making some of the highest quality product in North America and it has a much longer shelf life and it has an ability to really have a very comprehensive logistic and distribution strategy that we really just didnt have the ability to enact before.
Weve taken on customer that really from a product quality standpoint werent satisfied with us and now that we have some of the highest product quality out there.
Weve got a very diverse and complete customer base and allows us to sell product literally as fast as we make it.
So inventory is an issue to make sure that we service everyone that we do take on.
So inventory has both pluses and minuses and that you are turning your product into cash as quickly as you can but you also want to have the right amount of inventory to service all of your customers.
Were not having to reach out geographically as far as you might think.
The great news is that rains that have occurred on the southern plains and throughout the State of Texas have done a great job in terms of returning some of our more normal truck markets that have existed for decades into much more robust markets.
So that were seeing a normalization of some of the local markets that weve add.
Kelvin you want to add a little bit to that.
I think youve covered most of it.
But Mark Ill maybe just add that to your questioning or asking the question of our logistics and if were closer to the market.
And I would say that its fair to say that weve taken on more warehousing positions and probably moved some inventory from flat positions to closer to the farmer.
We see these farmers buying bigger equipment and able to put more product on in a shorter period of time.
So were trying to react to that and be ready for their demand.
So thats fair to say that in terms of geography as Bob stated its very similar and still very netback focused organization.
Super.
Thank you.
Perfect thank you.
You mentioned additional potash opportunities in the industrial and feed markets.
Can you quickly quantify the magnitude of these opportunities and your expectations going forward into the second half please? Chris this is Dave let me just touch on where were at in terms of product mix or sales mix here.
So for the second quarter and really for the first half of the year the numbers are almost identical.
Our ag  pardon me our ag sales were about 75% for the full year industrial was about 20% and the feed is about 5%.
So those numbers are up a little bit as a percentage over 2013 I think the piece thats interesting to note is that our overall volumes are up as well.
So I think its good strength in those markets industrial continues to be very resilient and were seeing as you can read there is plenty of activity in that sector right now so.
Were just in a good position to serve it and making sure that were balancing our production schedule to really focus on where we can get the best margins.
Perfect thank you.
And a quick follow up.
Given your current run rates in Trio can you just remind us of your longer-term assertations for production going forward as well as the geographic market opportunities? Thank you.
Sure why dont I touch a little bit on that and if you just want to add a little bit more on the future fees? I think the  well we continue to focus on predominantly right now on the Trio plant is the production of the pellet product.
And what youll see when the Q comes out is that much more of our product went into the domestic market than it has in the past.
And what we have seen is the strength has been on the granular and the premium product moving that into the U.S.
market has just simply resulted in us realizing more value for the product so the conversion of standard product the premium has really allowed us to make sure that were getting the highest net realized price and really growing the margin overall on it.
So the expectation in terms of productivity we continue to look for ways to increase our recoveries out of that plant.
I think the guidance that we have right now for the year is I think that that information is still very fair.
I think there is some upside as we continue to improve our pelletization capabilities that exists and thats really where our opportunity is in the near term.
The other thing I would add to that is that weve seen surprising geographic diversity in terms of the demand for that product.
So just about everywhere in the United States that we offer some of that product weve seen demand developing.
So once again our theme of once we got into the langbeinite of growing the market rather than trying to buy the market has served us quite well.
And that youll see youll continue to see continued geographic diversity in where we market that product in the United States.
Thank you.
Hi thanks guys.
Thanks for taking my questions and congrats on the nice quarter.
I was just wondering on the strong expected demand that you see in the back half is that driven by restocking or application? Obviously we've heard that inventory levels are significantly low so just kind of wondering your thoughts there.
Kelvin you want to start with that.
And Brett Ill try and put some color to this one.
I guess the first piece is restocking thats got to start before the demand kicks in from the farm gate.
What were really seeing is empty facilities across large geography that we serve.
A big part of that was the strong demand always through the back end of the season.
Were seeing more demand on the pasture and hay land than weve seen in the past.
Weve got a stronger southern plain market thats now has some moisture so theyre actually applying more potassium.
So I think weve had trouble kind of getting caught up at the end of spring season.
We saw excellent demand for the sale if you will and now were just executing on the logistics for that.
We believe that there is going to be a pretty strong application season this fall by all accounts there is a very good crop out there there is lots of nutrient removal happening and I guess the anticipation is that theyre going to apply.
What happened last spring is pretty current in a lot of customers mind where they really got a tight window for application for various reasons.
So I think theyre looking to spread that out and spread some of that work load across a lot more months of the year so.
So our expectation is that were going to see a good application season as well and then moving to I guess a winter fill after that.
I just want to stress that having broken the drought in the southwestern part of the United States especially the panhandle of Texas and Oklahoma Northern New Mexico Kansas has a big impact when you have such a small cattle herd and the amount of hay thats been raised and the multiple cuttings that theyre getting with the moisture and the amount of potassium that that hay requires.
If you were to go back and look at some of our delivery numbers back in the mid 2000s going into the hay crops and going into those geographic areas those are great truck markets for us and weve seen a real rebound there and so we continue to believe were going to see the strong part of that market that  this thing get talked about the hay and forage market system get described and discussed as much as the corn and the bean markets but theyre very significant markets for us.
Great that's excellent color.
Thanks a lot guys.
You talked a little bit about this in terms of the project pipeline but just wondering if you can provide any more color on kind of the low-hanging fruit cost reduction opportunities out there.
Obviously you mentioned some R&amp;D projects and of course the completion of HB Solar commissioning and the West mine.
But anything that you kind of see right off the bat that could help lower those costs? Well the big picture is having several 100 contractors not trying to build things side by side with our operators.
And so its really hard to describe whats like to have plans that now have individuals operating and optimizing these new plants without having contractors on top of them.
So in terms of low hanging fruit having well trained operators with new machinery new systems learning how to run those and learning how to run those in a very concentrated fashion without contractors on top of them has provided probably the lowest hanging fruit to start with and we really expect that to continue to build and build.
The thickener at west which is  weve basically been operating with two very old thickeners running at less than 50% of capacity we built a brand new thickener that will then restore the old thickeners will rehabilitate those so instead of having 50% or 40% of two thickeners will now have a 100% of three thickeners that will give us a real opportunity to handle a higher slime ore if you will.
And as we continue moving to some of our stacked ore bodies that have significantly higher ore grades thats one of the great things about Intrepid is that we are now moving towards some ore bodies and ore zones that weve been anticipating gain to for a couple of years as it took a lot of development work to head in that direction and now well have the thickener capacity to handle the slimes that are in there so thats a real opportunity from a recovery standpoint.
Our North plant just continues to operate better and better more effectively the pan on the pelletizer at the East plant we continue to see weekly and monthly improvements on there so.
Those are all low hanging operational opportunities.
In terms of the R&amp;D part I just want to say that there are a lot of things that were looking at that really complement our knowledge of our brine systems.
The amount of  the minerals that occur in our brines and our ability to design and build plants around recovering minerals there are opportunities out there in the future in terms of Dave is there anything I missed that you want to talk about in terms of additional low hanging fruit? No I really think that you point you made at the beginning of that Bob is the key one that giving the operators a chance to have a much more singular focus really drives those operational improvements and you get the opportunity to try a little old tests here and there.
So Brett I think the items Bob walked through there really are where youre going to see that trend and focus here over the next year to two years.
That makes a whole lot of sense.
Yes yes that's great.
That makes a whole lot of sense.
I'm sure it's nice to have your facilities back in your own hands.
I guess the last question from me is kind of going back to the capital allocation strategy going forward.
Apart from the CapEx piece obviously we're going to see a significant but decline there what else or kind of can you talk to that strategy maybe potential return to shareholders if youre talking about that? Any color there would be helpful.
Brett I guess this is Bob as the largest shareholder return of capital to shareholders is always at the top of my list.
So you and I are pretty well aligned there.
We do have a lot of opportunities that were looking at that are high rate of return opportunities and so we will as we go forward and continue to evaluate those well just simply look at them in terms of making sure that they have very significant rate of return opportunities.
You will see continued investment in our distribution strategy.
It allows us to move our tons in a very timely fashion and it allows us to continue achieve the margins that were achieving and the higher netbacks that weve been able to achieve thereby generating the highest margins in North America.
So those are going to be small investments but very consistent and well thought out strategic investments there wont be large investments but theyll make a difference.
Dave once again I think the Amax development HB Amax that were continuing to look out as well Brett on the longer term basis is just a continuation of driving more tons into the system that are produced using Solar Solution mining and lots of work going on in the background on that.
I think as we get a little bit more clarity around some timeline pieces thats just something to keep an eye on here into the future as well.
All right great.
Bob glad we're on the same page and thanks again for all the color guys.
Thank you.
Couple questions.
Just wondering what impact Mosaics pending closure their MOP operations in Carlsbad has.
Bobby talked about some of these high netback truck markets nearby.
Does that increase your volume potential there? And then just on your second half market outlook clearly were seeing strong demand but you talked of stable prices.
Does that mean you don't think you can get an increase over this 390 summer fill posting? Let me answer your question in a couple of different stages.
First when ever a plant gets shut down there is going to be employees that are going to lose their job and so our sympathy goes out to those that its just  its always sad when a plant get shut down.
I do think that we will be -- I hate to use this term beneficiary but there are some very positive impacts that will occur in the labor market as several 100 well trained highly skilled workers come into the marketplace thats the first piece.
The second is just not having Mosaics presence in that truck market I think just makes our presence a bit stronger.
It helps us from a variety of reasons with the regulators down there in terms of the amount of stress right now with the oil and gas activity down there we see various regulators having to spend a variety of time and having one less plant that they have to monitor makes it easier for us to get things permitted and turned around time wise.
Its a much lesser demand on the water resources down there we own significant water rights and in some very small areas we actually purchase water.
Because of the large geographic footprint that we have in Southeast New Mexico we both sell water and buy a very small amount of water were much more net seller than purchaser.
So its going to help us in the water market if you will.
As weve gone through it corporately its -- we really dont see any negatives whatsoever on Intrepid only potential positives.
We have made significant capital investments over the years on our product side of our business that they have chosen not to make and thats why I think were in good shape to take advantage of the situation.
Does that pretty much answer your question or any more depth on that? I think Kelvin has got a point hed like to make.
Sure Don.
Just a couple of thing as I get to Bobs point its a relatively small impact.
I mean were very well positioned to cover all that southern plains market and specifically the truck market that we talk to so.
So were in good shape there and we anticipate that well be able to continue to do that.
I think your second part of your question was regarding the market and to talk about it its stable or does it have some upside.
I think a couple of things going on there we know the inventory is very tight in terms of the supply demand has been strong.
Weve sold our summer fill so were moving through that and its really a logistics game today to make sure that we can cover everything that weve committed to.
So stable to some strength in the market is a way Id position that and I guess were certainly we dont set the pricing in the marketplace so we react to it and I guess we feel like there is the commodity price is kind of driving a little bit of negative right now at the farm gate but were also weighing the other items like inventory and logistics and so you got a bit of a balance right now.
Yes Don one more piece that I failed to mention is its going to have a big impact on -- positively on Intrepids logistics with the railroad.
Once again we wont have the competition over power over cars for their potash shipments that are leaving their mine.
So same thing with the truck logistics so as we evaluate the entire situation were having trouble coming up with a negative for Intrepid potash at that Carlsbad facility.
Thank you.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Wondering if you could talk a little bit more about the rail situation.
I remember back at 1Q you kind of highlighted there was a risk to shipments in 2Q depending on availability.
That obviously proved not to be an issue.
But I'm also hearing a lot of the grain handlers talking about the big crop that's coming and that's going to put further stress on the rail car situation.
So it just kind of feels like maybe this isn't a one-time issue; it's going to be an ongoing issue so.
What can you do over the medium to long-term to mitigate this issue and how can you benefit from it and where are the risks? Hi Vince.
This is Dave.
Ill start out and Kelvin if you have some additional comments here that I dont cover please jump in.
I think the -- all the comments that you made there Vince I think are spot on that we certainly needed to wave the flag as we were going into the second quarter as we were seeing rail velocities really come under pressure.
What I will tell you is that we were able to manage that in large part because of frankly there was a lot of group force works that took place during the second quarter daily conversations with the scheduling logistics folks particularly within the BN.
Our sales and marketing team moving trains around based on what was happening in current weather situations.
Us focusing on more unit train deliveries into warehouses that can handle larger loads.
And really trying to move forward that strategy that weve been talking about for a while of just being closer to the market.
So it was the combination of those items that maybe its a little bit of a duck swimming in water that I think the end result made it look pretty smooth and predictable but there was a lot of effort to get there.
I also think your comment on the fact that it will continue to be a challenge.
I think its very fair and that certainly the sentiment that Id say customers as we got back from the Southwest Fertilizer Conference echoed that not a lot of discussion or concern around price actually fairly confident there but more concerned about logistics and getting product in place and like Kelvin touched on earlier some of that tightness that customers felt last spring theyre trying to be very thoughtful about.
So weve talked to each of the railroads that serve us we know that the BN is bringing on 500 new power units 5 000 new employees its taking them time to get those delivered and people trained same thing on the UP although that has a smaller impact on us.
So I think people getting ahead of it is important and certainly thats -- were just staying close to our customers to make sure were managing the timing on it.
So Kelvin anything else to add there? I think just we were at the Southwest Fertilizer Conference recently and I think one of the bigger themes that came out of that was logistics and distribution concerns from the farmer and really its tied back to what Dave mentioned the concerns for power and railcars.
We are seeing an uptick in our truck traffic as we talked about.
Some of the things that customers are doing I think theyre reacting to the starting level taking product a little bit earlier than we would have expected.
The one thing that we do have going forward is primarily we ship on single one carrier to destination whereas our competitors tend to ship on multi carrier.
so its a little less complicated for us to get a product move to the customer.
That's very helpful.
Thanks very much.
Thanks.
Hi good morning.
When where would we see you've talked about sort of how your costs for potash being somewhat flattish for the second half and bottoming a little bit in Q4.
When would the next drop in your cost space be? Would it be more Q1 or Q3 of next year? Joel this is Dave.
One thing wed point you back to is in the press release.
What youll see is that there is a step down in the second half of 2014 compared to the first half.
I think the flattish piece will really just be here in the third quarter because thats the point in time that we have that the plan turnarounds and the solution mine harvest starts for HB in mid August year and then Moab starts up right after Labor Day.
So the fourth quarter is really where you will see that pretty good size step down just direct you back to the guidance numbers because that will show you the impact of what were expecting over the second half of the year and then as I touched on earlier when we get into full production on HB those lower cost tons will even have the more pronounced impact in 2015.
Your warehousing and handling costs have gone down a fair bit the last couple of quarters on a per-ton basis.
Is that sort of any run rate going forward? There is a little bit of fixed cost component that you need to think about in warehousing and handling Joel.
So we do have -- there are variable cost to go along with applying some of the de-dust agent or anti-cake agent from time-to-time.
But when were able to have full volumes going through the system like we have been this year you are going to get the advantage that we werent able to get the full leverage on last year when the shipping volume was a little bit lower.
Okay.
And finally one of your North American non or actually a non-chloride potassium fertilizer producers has starting to look in some product development where theyre looking at basically producing an SOP thats blended in micronutrients down the road here trying to maybe compete with some of the langbeinite or Trio business.
Have you done any work of possibly looking at some product development where you could produce like a higher potassium grade of Trio? I think the -- may be one of the points that you touch on there is that there continues to be demand for specialty products.
And we certainly recognize that there may be opportunity there at some point.
Id say right now were focused on the recovery on the Trio side and really looking at what capabilities there might be in the mines.
So I dont know that we really have much to comment on that specifically.
Yes.
Were extremely aware of the demand for the magnesium and the sulfur  I wouldnt say any real reduction in non-chloride products and were aware of opportunities and Im just going to leave it at that.
Were very aware.
Okay.
Thank you.
Hi thanks for having me on the call.
So with the last of your major CapEx projects being completed this year can you just talk about what we can expect for a sustaining CapEx going forward? I think youve touched on it in the past but Im just wondering if theres any update on that.
Andrew this is Dave.
I can give you a kind of a snapshot as we sit here today.
Were just in the initial stages of kicking off our budget planning for 2015 as well.
So these numbers may change a little bit.
So what weve suggested is that sustaining it will be somewhere around that $35 million level there maybe a little plus or minus on that.
But what weve really looked at over time is that weve got newer facilities we have a maintenance planning schedule or program that is in place and actively being applied across all the mines.
So I think the one of the important takeaways from my perspective is that there is a predictability to it now that maybe we didnt have five years ago and we also have more mining equipment.
We have an additional plant with HB so a little bit of a transition period here but Id kind of start plus or minus $5 million to that number.
And that's helpful thank you.
Could you compare that to just in prior years? Youve mentioned some of the changes thats been going on with your operations.
Maybe just where its trending and touch on that a little bit? Yes I think that weve been  I mean the levels are a little bit higher than $40 million here for the last couple of years in 2012 and 2013 and part of that was just getting things to where they needed to be.
So hopefully well see a little bit of step down for the reasons I mentioned particularly around having newer facilities.
Okay great.
And then just one quick question just circling back on pricing.
Can you talk about the industrial and feed markets versus the agricultural markets right now? I think its kind of interesting to have very specific discussions around that I dont know that its always tremendously helpful because over time they will directionally follow one another.
But there is a little bit of a lag in lead associated with them.
So you kind of go back and look at what we have done on a net realized price basis over the years and weve continued to frankly deliver on higher net realized price.
I think our historical numbers something like 24% and thats been a period of time where weve had a higher percentage of ag relative to industrial and points where weve had a lower.
So I think it really is helpful to look at it on a blended base.
All that said Ill tell you that Kelvin and the guys have done a very good job of pushing through the price increases that have been announced very quickly.
And we talked about this being the first quarter where weve seen a little bit of a rebound.
Really we saw that happen mid first quarter and when we look at it looks whats going on overall.
I think we were able to react more quickly.
You look at the results that have been reported to-date and were something like $85 to $90 better on a short ton basis than what on a combined basis Mosaic and potash have reported here.
So we continue to drive that I know youve heard Bob and I both emphasize its an integral part of our plan and weve got the flexibility and the plans to continue to drive that.
Andrew I guess I would just -- I would direct you back to our very solid nine year track record of achieving a much higher net realized price than our competitors.
And thats because we understand the diversity of our markets the timing of our markets how those markets are moving given our active participation in the oil and gas industry and knowledge of that as well as the feed market its given us an opportunity and our track record very solidly proves that of determining which market is better win and when to make those switches.
Thats great.
Thank you very much.
Hey Brock.
Excuse me this is Gary.
We have time for one more question before you introduce Id like to apologize I understand for those of you listening on the webcast it may have been a brief break in the audio.
I remind you that the recording will be available shortly after the call at intrepidpotash.com.
So feel free to dial in and listen to that webcast.
And we apologize for that brief it sounds like there was a brief silent period but Brock if you would introduce the last question.
Hey good morning.
Two questions if I can.
One a lot of discussion about lower cost of goods sold particularly in the prepared remarks.
Can you remind us what that target might be for 2015 on the potash side? And probably given all the progress with Trio maybe an update as to what your target is for that product? Mark this is Dave.
Ill go ahead you want to ask them both first here? Yes.
The second question is with respect to Ill just say it Compass Minerals they have indicated that they would like to be able to purchase more KCL going forward.
They have sulfur you have the potassium ions.
Seems like a pretty good match.
And you are of course the most freight logical from the standpoint of sending MOP to them.
Is that something that you can perhaps talk about a little bit? Mark I guess we have a very diverse and complete customer base and were very aware of who is buying potash in the United States and I kind of leave it at that.
Once again well stand by our track record of achieving higher net realized pricing and knowing the market.
I appreciate the insight and were just extremely aware of the market.
Dave you want to Yes.
Ill touch on the other question here quickly Bob.
The Mark there is some information in our investor decks that might be worth pointing to with regards to what the impact of HB is on the system.
I think overall we said that its probably about 10% decrease once HB is up and running.
And Bob went through a list of some of the other items that we continue to look at.
So I think thats a fair place to start when you look at the impact of the $80 to $100 per ton cost on the potash side.
And then on Trio little more specific on that what weve been doing is you remember back to the first quarter we talked about some of the losses that we were having in our plant as we were manufacturing the pelletized product and so that the emphasis that we have been putting on the plant is really around reducing those losses.
And what weve seen are some real nice improvements where were using less binding agent where our recycle rate has gone down and we continue to see improvements on that.
So the trend will directionally be heading in the right place.
I think as we continue to make improvements in the plant its a little bit more challenging for us to have an exact prediction of what that will be.
But Id love to and I think weve got a very real capability that to pull out another $10 $20 per ton and certainly focusing on the recovery is where some of that upside is that I mentioned earlier.
So directionally well be continuing to push on it given the exact color on it were just going to need to see how each one of these step progresses.
Thank you.
I think with that were wrapped up and really just want to thank everybody for taking the time to dial-in and appreciate your interest in Intrepid and well look forward to speaking with everybody in the near future here.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!  Thank you for standing by.
This is the Chorus Call conference operator.
Welcome to the Intrepid Potash 2014 Third Quarter Conference Call.
As a reminder all participants are in a listen-only mode and the conference is being recorded.
After the presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
(Operator Instructions).
At this time Id like to turn the conference over to Gary Kohn Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead Mr.
Kohn.
Thanks Joe.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us for our third quarter conference call.
Presenting on todays call will be Bob Jornayvaz our Co-Founder Executive Chairman President and CEO; Kelvin Feist Senior Vice President of Sales and Marketing; and Brian Frantz our Interim Chief Financial Officer.
Also in the room with us today are Hugh Harvey Co-Founder and Executive Vice Chairman of the Board; Martin Litt Executive Vice President and General Counsel; and John Mansanti Executive Vice President of Operations.
I would like to remind everyone that statements made on this call that are not historical fact or theyre express of belief expectation or intention including statements about our financial and operational outlook are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the United States Security Laws.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are based on a number of assumptions which we believe are reasonable.
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from our expectations.
You can find more information about these risks and uncertainties in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q as filed with the SEC.
We will be filing our third quarter Form 10-Q later today.
During todays call we will refer to certain non-GAAP financial and operational measures.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included in yesterdays press release.
Our SEC filings and press releases are available on our website at intrepidpotash.com.
With that I will turn the call over to Bob.
Good morning and welcome everyone.
Thank you for joining us.
The strategy for Intrepid is clear and steadfast continue to achieve the highest average net realized sales price among our North American peers and lower our cash operating cost so that we can increase our margin in cash generation on every ton we sell.
In the first half of this year we grew our price advantage beyond historical levels and we believe that we expanded it again in the third quarter on strong sales volume.
We accomplished this by selling to a broad customer base that we have cultivated across diversified markets.
We also have an expanded set of product offerings beyond just agricultural granular potash.
We produce and sell several products that we serve as unique needs of customers in the feed and industrial sectors each of which represents an important part of our business.
We are now producing an improved granular product that allows us to enhance our distribution strategy by placing more products forward in our field warehouses ahead of demand.
Our ability to capture just in time opportunities is essential to better serve farmers needs and mitigate some of the rail service issues.
We also strive to sell every ton we produce which accords us the opportunity to choose the best options to maximize price and margin.
The other side of creating a stronger cash margin in the long-term is reducing our cash operating cost per ton.
We expect to achieve this by increasing production from our low cost solar solution facilities while also focusing on improving operating cost at our conventional facilities.
One key to lowering cash operating cost is focusing on our three well located solar solution mines.
We operate these facilities where the air climate is ideal to evaporation knowing that within average at evaporation rates over a number of years and decades we will benefit from low cost solar production.
Weve been successfully producing low cost tons at our two facilities in Utah which have been in operations for decades.
And we remain confident in our ability to achieve the same success at our HB facility.
To address the potential change in our cash operating cost for 2015 let me be clear on a few points.
Intrepid has and will continue to benefit from producing an increasing number of tons using solar solution mining.
It is important to understand however that inherent to the process is potential year-to-year variability in production volumes relative to the evaporation rates in a given season.
The nature of solar solution production is that we see higher annual production during those years when above average evaporation conditions exist and we see lower production in those years with below average evaporation.
Furthermore during a rain event the potassium in the ponds is not lost rather redissolves in the ponds and remains available for recrytalization and harvest in the future.
In normal years the production variation somewhat balance each other out across our properties.
This past quarter was an anomaly.
And that across all of our solar properties we experienced well below average evaporation conditions which will potentially influence production levels in 2015.
For context in the third quarter the areas where each of our solar evaporations are located received around three times the average rainfall.
In September alone Carlsbad had more than six times its average for the month which occurred in the last two weeks while September received 3.5 times its normal September rain.
In fact our Wendover facility is immediately adjacent to the Bonneville Salt Flats with a hundred year anniversary of speed week was cancelled due to water levels.
With this Wendover rain and resulting lower evaporation we will potentially see a decrease in production from this our lowest cost facility in 2015 compared with 2014.
Moab was only modestly impacted.
Offsetting the decline in Wendover is the expected volume growth from HB.
It is not a one to one offset on cash operating cost in that HB tons while still significantly cheaper than conventional tons are produced at higher cost than the Wendover tons as HB is still ramping up to full production.
The HB ramp up is progressing as planned and even with the record rain in Carlsbad where HB is located we still expect to be well within our production range for this and next year.
To my point about annual weather variability we expect our 2014 production to be better than average reflecting the better evaporative season earlier this year.
We expect 2015 to be somewhat below average as it has been influenced from the past rain event.
In total we currently expect production from HB to be well within our combined production ranges for the first two years.
We continue to anticipate HB to operate at full run rates of 150 000 to 200 000 tons annually beginning in 2016 at a per ton cash operating cost of $80 to $100.
As Intrepids largest shareholder I am as disappointed as anyone in the delay in the change in the outlook for next year.
I do understand however the longer term benefit of lowering our cost by generating more tons using solar evaporation.
Overtime we have proven our ability to excel at solar solution mining but we do not control the weather.
This storm if you will is now behind us as we experience normal patterns we will return to more normalized average production levels and cost and in the event of better evaporation seasons we have the potential to see higher production levels and lower cost.
On the top of my priority list and everyone else at Intrepids we are increasing our margin and cash flow on every ton we sell.
We expect that we extended our price advantage in the third quarter and we did lower our cash operating cost from the high point last fourth quarter.
We are now generating free cash flow and expect to continue to be cash flow positive as we benefit from our sales strategy improve our cash operating cost and reduce our capital spending.
Kelvin will now provide more insight on the market.
Kelvin? Thanks Bob.
For the first nine months of this year we sold 705 000 tons of potash 34% more than we sold in the same period last year.
We also grew our net average realized sales price for potash to $336 for the short term in the third quarter a 2% increase from the previous quarter.
There were a number of factors that contributed to our sales and marketing success in the third quarter.
We continued to support a significant geographical footprint with a diverse product portfolio.
We executed on our solid distribution strategy and built on our strong relationships with our customers.
We met our customers continued strong agricultural demand ahead of farmers replenish the new trends removed from the 2014 bumper crop.
With the excellent oil and gas activity in the regions we sell this further supported our successful quarter.
But still the good portion of our fourth quarter order book and our focus on producing and delivering our product on a timely basis.
Our expectation is for our fourth quarter pricing to be stable as we continued to have some success in realizing a portion of recently announced price increase.
Our Trio product remains in high demand.
Through nine months of this year we sold 141 000 tons 47% more tons than we sold in the same period last year.
Trio pricing was stable year-over-year showing that customers continue to recognize the value of this specialty product.
As demand for Trio continues to outpace supply improving production trends remain a focus for us.
Thanks and Ill now turn the call over to Brian.
Thanks Kelvin and good morning.
Looking at our results for the third quarter we earned adjusted EBITDA of $20.5 million which is flat from last years third quarter.
We had a net loss of $1.2 million which included a $3.4 million LCM adjustment.
The loss is well at the LCM were in part attributable to the diminished production levels and higher per ton cost at East.
We proactively shutdown our East facility for six days while we managed through the rain event which also included some power outages.
We generated cash flow from operations of $105 million during the first nine months of this year.
Cash paid per capital expenditures in the first nine months was $55 million.
One of our goals this year was to be free cash flow positive and we will achieve that goal.
With all of our major capital projects completed we continue to plan for capital investments this year in the range of $40 million to $50 million.
We had cash and investments totaling $74 million at quarter end which is up from $35 million at the end of the second quarter.
On the cost side weve reduced our nine month SG&amp;A expenses by 22% compared with the same period a year ago.
In summary we are pleased our sales marketing and logistic strategies produced another strong sales performance this quarter with positive pricing trends.
We strengthened our cash position throughout this year and expect to generate increased amounts of free cash flow over the long-term as we create more margin and n cash flow opportunities through lower operating costs.
To summarize we have many competitive advantages.
Were geographically well situated with distribution capabilities in key markets.
We serve a diverse customer base with high quality products.
And we operate our facilities at full production rates with the goal of selling what we produce to realize the best average net realized sales price among our North American peers.
Operator that concludes our prepared remarks and we are ready for questions.
Perfect thank you.
The first question I have can you just talk a little bit about any potential changes in your potash marketing strategy given the closure of Mosaics Carlsbad assets just any update there would be appreciated? Chris thank you this is Bob.
They havent quite closed it yet but we are seeing lots of positive impacts already.
We are seeing increased truck traffic we are seeing increased langbeinite demand.
Weve been able to hire several employees and have several more that we believe will come over as soon as the facility is actually closed down on January 1st.
I think given the past rain event and the way in which we voluntarily shutdown our facility weve seen some increased benefits from the choices we made so its been nothing but positive.
Perfect and just a quick follow-up can you also just talk a little bit about your outlook for North American potash demand next year specifically any differences between your agricultural and industrial customers and then also anything in feed in particular? Thank you.
Well Id say right now I will let Kelvin address this with a little more color.
But right now wed see our percentages remain pretty well constant.
We are still seeing great demand for our industrial product and that remains pretty steadfast.
In talking with our customers and looking forward in the first quarter we are not seeing any significant change in those different percentages between the ag industrial and feed.
Right now we just got really strong book as we look forward in terms of what were seeing.
Its going to be interesting given this recent price run out in corn and soybeans just over the last few days.
Its just going to be interesting to see how that affects farmers because its given farmers a great opportunity to do some hedging at significantly higher prices then what they saw just a couple of weeks ago.
So we are seeing really good strong demand for the fourth quarter and were having good discussions about the first quarter.
So we dont see significant or material changes that are going to affect us and our ability to market all of our product.
So right now our outlook going into the first half is pretty strong for Intrepid.
Perfect thank you very much.
Thanks.
Bob once again youve sold more potash then you produced which isnt too surprising but can you tell us where that leaves your inventories and if 2015 production is flattish to down are you going to struggle with low inventory next year if we do have a good demand season? Well I dont know I would say we are going to struggle.
You know to put our production in perspective our seven year average of productions is about 762 000 tons and our 2014 range is about 850 000 to 860 000 tons and we see 2015 going up from there.
And in terms of sales our average over the last seven years has been about 742 000 tons and our 2014 range is 900 to 910.
So weve hit some pretty darn good milestones in terms of production and sales increases over our past seven year averages which were really proud of.
And somehow get lost in the mix in terms of some of the significant increases that weve achieved.
In terms of struggling against inventory once again that just gives us a good opportunity for pricing advantages in certain of our regional markets.
And so as weve described many times before not all potash is priced the same in different regional markets.
So we believe we are going to have a success at selling 100% of our tons.
Kelvin you want to address.
And Mark maybe Ill just add a little bit of color.
Youve heard from us in many regards that weve seen excellent demand.
So we think thats going to continue.
We obviously are supportive of our feed industrial markets they are very strong as well.
I think we are executing our strategy and thats the key to the story for us and its working out well.
We are going to manage under lower inventory levels certainly through the spring season and thats just the reality of our business and we plan to sell every ton we produce.
So thats the reality of our business and its working out well for us.
Okay and just one more question we know that across the industry there has been a lot more demand for standard in the short run can you talk about what you are expecting over the next say six months in terms of standard versus granular versus where youve been historically? Let me start with that if we look at the discussions that we are having with customers going forward in the next six months as I said earlier we dont see any changes to the basic percentage breakdowns that we are seeing.
Kelvin do you want to give some additional color to them.
Yes I think that your question is more related to the international business and some of our competitors are seeing a significant difference in standard demand from granular.
Our focus in the ag side is granular industrial and feed is primarily the smaller the standard and the finer standard products.
So weve seen good solid demand on the industrial and feed and we see that continuing.
And I guess the granular side has been very good to us to date and we see it continuing certainly through Q4 and into next year.
Okay so no real shift? No.
Thank you.
Hi this is Carl Chen stepping in for Ben and thank you for taking my question.
So given some of your competitors have expressed their concerns at logistics issue that we saw in North America this year may possess in the coming years.
How do you plan to build on your new warehousing strategy to mitigate this potential issue in the future? Well Ill let Kelvin give it some color but we think thats one of our distinct advantages by being geographically located in the market.
I mean being physically in the market.
So weve seen our truck traffic increase weve worked with the railroads to work on very specific unit train objectives we have worked on just a whole variety of issues given the logistics challenge to work within the constrained railroad system to turn that into an advantage.
So I think as our expanded net realized sales price advantage indicates weve been able to capture on a quicker basis some of the price increases that weve seen and to get a higher price for our product by focusing on using the logistics problems as a potential advantage.
Kelvin do you want to give that any color.
I think the reality is our railroad business is primarily single line hall and if you think about our competitors they are typically two and three line hall in many cases.
So its a much more complex system and they are moving offer the distance.
So that complicates things as well.
I think from our distribution strategy if you think about placing product forward we see farmers that are able to put products on much more quickly than they used to be able to.
So we feel like we need to push more product forward into the marketplace and thats been received very positively from our customer base.
I think the other side is that the other sectors that we support the industrial and feed those tend to be more localized and maybe more truck related markets and so it takes some of the pressure off of some of those logistics that we mentioned on the railroad side.
I guess we dont see abatement of some of the issues in the short-term with the railroads and I think its important to understand and so we have really taken steps to try and minimize as best we can and I think there is still a lot of challenges to come on that front.
Great.
Thank you.
Hi gentlemen thanks for taking my questions.
Just on that last question just wondering if you can provide any updates on the specifics around some of the logistics tuck-ins youre pursuing? What thought is there anything of the sort some  I guess I understand  I mean clearly were trying to move more truck tons with Mosaic closing their facility that gives us more truck opportunities.
Weve really focused on working with the BNS (ph) in terms of our single unit train halts if you will and turning those around by avoiding any switches by avoiding use of multiple rail in terms of picking our locations that we are selling to so did that give some color to what -- Yes I was also kind of wondering youve talked about pursuing additional warehouse opportunities if there is any detail there around those opportunities? No we just continued to focus in areas where were freight advantaged and geographically advantaged.
We continue to structure those fields that work best for Intrepid in our natural geographic market.
And so that strategy continues to work.
I mean in terms of giving you specifics as to geographic locations I would just assure you that we are focused on areas where we have the best freight rates and the best freight opportunities in terms of reliable power from the railroad.
I mean its really working with the railroad to find the best place.
Its just constant communication.
Okay great.
Thats excellent color thanks.
And then just the last one from me if you could discuss your cash deployment priorities if there has been any changes there? Im sorry what was the question? Cash deployment.
So during this last year this is Brian Brett.
We are still in that $40 million to $50 million range and that took care of a lot of the projects that we wrapped up at the first part of the year.
So as were going into Q4 that level of capital expenditure that we had earlier in the year is clearly dropping down.
As we are looking into next year and we continue to think if that CAPEX number probably runs for 2015 still in that $40 million to $50 million range going forward.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot guys.
Joe we can move to the next one if Vince isnt there.
Hi good morning.
Could you give a bit of color on Trio for 2015 do you see a greater production in sales and is there a chance to get some improvements in Trio cost in 2015? Joel this is Brian Frantz.
Yes I think as we are looking forward in Trio I mean we have continued to make progress with our lang plant.
In particular we are making progress turning some of the standard product that we are producing into the prioritized product and so I think as we continue to work on that effort we expect to see some improvements in that going forward into 2015.
And so I think that will at the end of the day in 2015 we should see some production gains coming off Trio into 2015.
Okay and my second question is from a high level it would seem that you realized potash price in Q3 was that a wider discount to sort of Midwest benchmarks we have seen for a few years and you are also modeling to similar sorry guiding to similar realized potash price in Q4.
So is this something maybe you can talk about did you maybe book a lot of your sales earlier is there a mix shift going on here can you give us some color please? Yes you bet.
We looked at that.
And I think what you look at what happened in the third quarter is that green markets which is probably benchmark you referring to was showing an accelerated pace.
They were actually showing what some retailers and wholesalers were selling at the high-end of that market and the acceleration that occurred in that happened pretty quick.
We were able to capture most of that and at the price increase that was announced early in October was basically to set the price to where the current market demand had already taken the price.
So I think if you are going to benchmark off the high end of that those were sales that were being made by wholesalers and retailers on the high end of the market rather than a real reflection of what some of the Canadians posted price was in the third quarter.
So once again I think we - if you appropriately look at that over the quarter and how to accelerate it through the quarter I think we captured as much if not more than our peers.
Thank you very much.
Hi thanks for taking my questions.
I was just wondering on your expected HB production range for 2016 its 150 million to 200 million tons.
So the range is that based on the weather volatility so the bottom end would assume more rain and the upper end would assume more sunshine or is there something else to that.
You know that is a good way to look at it but its really focused on multi decade averages.
And so when we look at solar solution mining the good news is Wendover has been in operations since 1932.
Moab has been solution mining since 1972.
And we have Carlsbad actually has a significantly higher net evaporation rate than either Moab or Wendover.
So we take the multi decade averages and we build them into our models and thats how we come up with the ranges.
But your description of it in terms of having a low end and high range takes into account the weather variability.
We just look at it a little differently by looking at the averages.
Okay thats helpful.
And then I guess my next question would be just bigger picture now that some of your major projects are pretty much complete and you are getting into that positive cash flow territory what could we expect next maybe for like the next three years or what are your priorities going forward? Well our number one priority is to add solar evaporation tons.
I mean those are clearly our lowest cost tons and thats where we have our biggest margin opportunity.
And so at every place every one of our facilities where we have opportunities to increase the production of those tons the recovery of those tons the grade of the brine coming into those ponds.
Were highly focused on those because those are our highest margin tons.
Our second is really looking at our unbelievable langbeinite reserves that we sit on and how to best maximize the very unique langbeinite reserves that our East mine sits on.
As you know we have currently mined from a mixed ore body.
There is 10 different ore zones out there and we sit on top of several langbeinite ore bodies over our mine that have not yet been tapped.
And so trying to really figure out the best way to start to incorporate those incredible reserves into our production stream because langbeinite is such a great product and gives us great margin opportunities as well.
And then we continue to be focused on our conventional assets and how we drive down costs at are conventional assets.
And so as weve said before what were seeing is with the Mosaic shutdown at our Carlsbad regional area were seeing the opportunity to see a more reliable power grid as we noticed in the September storm event.
It was regional power outages and so we look forward to having a little bit better power availability.
We look to having better water resource availability more employees to hire in the workforce.
We are also seeing slightly reduced interest in employees going into the oil field given the recent declines in oil prices.
So were seeing a lot of macro trends that are very positive for us in Carlsbad and we are going to continue to work on those to increase our margins.
Thats great thanks.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
I would like to apologize I jumped on late.
Was hoping just to make sure to clarify on the production guidance next year.
I mean is it -- the implications for sales I mean on my math I am getting sales down 50 000 tons and is that entirely lower Wendover tons relative to 2014 with a little bit of growth in HB partially offsetting help me with the mix of output from the different mines next year that drives the shipment decline? Adam this is Brain.
Were looking at where the production numbers are going to come through for next year.
And we are seeing production number still in that 850 to 900 range as we talk about that going forward.
So as we look at sales levels going through in 2015 as Kelvin talked about we will continue to look at trying to sell each ton that we have into that market where we get that best net realized sales price.
As Kelvin also talked a little bit earlier we do have little bit lower inventory levels at this point in time.
And as we managed through that particularly in the first half and next year but we still think we will be able to take advantage of a lot of market opportunities going forward into 2015.
Okay thats helpful.
And as you think about the outlook in to 2016 and I think there is some pretty -- the expectations on unit cost productions as you get the full benefit of HB I mean is the -- whereas next year kind of cash cost in potash are going to be in that 195 to kind of flattish close to 200 with 2014.
Looking to 2016 is there still expectations as year before by method of HB that you could see that $15 or $25 decline in the average cost for the enterprise? Well HB is performing quite in line with expectations.
We are very pleased with the results that we are seeing with HB.
And so the one thing about weather averages is that weather tends to revert to the main revert back to the average.
So when you do have a rain event over the next few years generally you are going to see better evaporation seasons.
So we like to stick to the big picture and look at the multi-year averages or the multi-decade weather averages.
So if you believe in averages we have every reason to believe that our solar solution facilities in 2016 should perform well within the ranges that theyve historically performed and given what we are seeing at HB were extremely pleased with how it's performing so far.
Okay and on that basis I mean can you talk also about opportunities that you have in your conventional facilities the East and West and how the mine plants look as you look out beyond next 12 months into maybe better or great kind of parts of the mine or opportunities to improve the throughput and yield and lower the cost? Well if we look at West West clearly has the opportunity to mine and - without getting into the weeds and lots of specifics.
As weve discussed before we have what we like to refer to as the stacked over body that were mining into at West which has our higher ore grades.
However with it comes higher slimes if you will and we think were prepared for that by having just completed the building of a new thickener and refurbishment of two old thickeners as well as expanding different technologies that we had to deal with those the clay content or those slimes.
Weve also come up with several ways that weve worked to take potash from our tails if you will and circulate it into HB which gives us the opportunity for additional systematic recoveries if you will.
So instead of having losses the ability to recover those tons that we are formerly reporting to tails those are some of the opportunities at West.
As well as numerous I mean I am going to rod mill (ph) expansions and things that really give you incredible recovery opportunities without getting into too many details.
But if we look over at East what we are really focused on is that we sit on top of this incredible langbeinite ore body thats on tap for us that were looking at different ways to incorporate those pure lang reserves that we havent tapped into yet into our current production stream to increase our langbeinite production and significantly reduce our langbeinite cost because its such a great product.
So there is a lot of different ways that were looking at how do we substantially increase our langbeinite production.
I am at East because we sit on such great untapped ore bodies.
Hope that its a bit a color on in terms of where we are headed.
Thats very helpful.
Ill get back in queue.
Thanks very much.
Hi thank you for taking my call this morning.
The Amax mine potential there is that -- would that be about the same capital cost as it took to get the HB mine up and running? No not remotely.
Amax would start out with just injecting and withdrawing brine.
Thats a mine that we own and have leased and have the opportunity to exploit and we are in the permitting process of that right now.
And so we would start out by taking that high grade brine and putting it into our existing ponds.
So thats how we see Amax and as weve described many times we see incremental add on opportunities or bolt on opportunities to the footprint thats already been built out.
Thats sort of the beauty of having built the HB facilities that we built given the pond system that weve built the mill that weve built and the current mines that we are flooding is the ability to bolt on if you will additional underground surface area thats got substantial potash left to be recovered in other areas of the mine that we just begun flooding.
So we see them as bolt on rather than one massive cap spent.
Okay.
Thank you and just a question the higher per ton cost in potash in the third quarter.
The bulk of I guess going forward it will be just from the dilution in Wendover and the impact from the shutdown in the East should only be a one quarter effect? Chris this is Brian.
Yes as we look at the impacts on East certainly we are one quarter youve got a little bit of inventory there that will get solved here in the fourth quarter where there will be a small impact there.
But by and large the production on the underground facility should be unaffected going forward with that.
And then the solar properties as Bob talked about particularly HB continues to perform as we expect it will here in the fourth quarter.
So its more of a mix question that you are referring to than anything else at this point.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Hi this is actually Suli Suleiman (ph) for Don Carson.
I wanted to ask about your outlook for Q4 in terms of your average realized potash price and why you are not necessarily seeing the price appreciation and if thats a result of maybe not completing summer fill orders? No in fact I dont think youre really understanding.
In the third quarter we achieved the price increase before our peers.
So our price went up faster than our peers and so we captured the majority of that price increase before it was announced.
And we are really proud of that product.
And I think thats got lost in the messaging and we continued to see our ability to capture that into the fourth quarter and were seeing strength in the demand for our product and so thats why we mentioned that we see stable pricing in the fourth quarter because we already achieved good portion of that increase in the third quarter.
Okay.
Thank you.
I want to thank everybody for taking the time to dial-in and appreciate your interest in Intrepid.
We look forward to speaking with everybody in the near future.
Thank you again.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Thank you for standing by.
This is the Chorus Call conference operator.
Welcome to the Intrepid Potash Inc.
Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2014 Financial Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Gary Kohn Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and thank you.
Hello everyone and welcome to our call today.
As we begin I will remind everyone that parts of our discussion will include forward-looking statements as defined by the U.S.
securities laws.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are based on a number of assumptions which we believe are reasonable.
These statements are based on information available to us today and we are not assuming any obligation to update them.
You can find more information about risks and uncertainties to our future performance in our periodic reports filed with the SEC.
During today's call we will refer to certain non-GAAP financial and operational measures.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included in yesterday's press release.
Our SEC filings and press releases are available on our website at intrepidpotash.com.
Presenting on the call today are Bob Jornayvaz our Cofounder Executive Chairman President and CEO; and Brian Frantz our Interim Chief Financial Officer.
Kelvin Feist our Senior Vice President of Sales and Marketing is available for Q&amp;A.
With that I'll turn the call over to Bob.
Good morning and welcome everyone.
Thank you for joining us.
The year end call provides us the opportunity to recap the past year and set the stage for the year ahead.
We entered 2014 with very clear objectives: First optimize our operations especially our new assets.
Second extend our average net-realized sales price advantage to our very diverse markets and our distribution strategy.
The goal was straightforward: maximize margin and cash flow on every ton sold to generate positive free cash flow as promised.
We built momentum throughout the year with our efforts culminating in a strong fourth quarter.
The progress we have made and the difference a year makes is obvious when comparing the key metrics in the fourth quarter to last year's fourth quarter.
This comparison shows the improvements we achieved for both potash and Trio in sales volume pricing and costs.
We have built a successful distribution strategy that further leverages our geographic advantage.
With this advantage and more favorable market dynamics we grew fourth quarter potash sales 26% to 210 000 tons while also growing Trio sales 52% up to 41 000 tons.
Both our potash and Trio prices trended upward from the first quarter to the end of the year at their highest point for 2014.
Our 2014 fourth quarter prices were up 3% relative to last year.
We have invested in and are committed to lowering cash operating costs.
Compared with 2013's fourth quarter we took $32 a ton out of potash cash operating costs and $58 a ton out of Trio's.
These cost improvements are the result of our investments in increasing production and gaining operating efficiencies.
The benefit of these pricing and cost trends is the cash flow we generate on every ton of product we sell.
In the fourth quarter we generated $127 of cash flow per ton for potash sold beating last year by $46 a ton.
We also generated $153 of cash flow on every turn of Trio sold bettering the previous year by $65.
Our full year sales and production volumes for both potash and Trio were strong.
We sold a record 915 000 tons of potash nearly 0.25 million more tons than the previous year.
We sold 182 000 tons of Trio exceeding last year's volume by 48%.
These results are evidence that our sales and marketing strategies serve us well in meeting the strong demand that materialized during 2014.
Full year potash cash operating costs of $198 a ton were up slightly from 2013.
We did make positive strides in lowering costs but they were offset by lower production we experienced at our West facility while be implemented upgrades and by start-up costs at our HB Mine.
We reduced full year Trio cash operating costs by $7 a ton to $194.
This was accomplished through the production gains we made through the team's focus on process improvements.
And those improvements are continuing.
Overall we performed well in 2014 and delivered a strong fourth quarter.
We returned a positive cash flow generation with record sales favorable pricing trends and inline costs.
As we develop our sales plan we spend a great deal of time forecasting with our customers to understand the demand outlook for potash and Trio in light of farmer economics oil rig counts and other items.
Our strategy and an important distinction for Intrepid is that we maximize our production and sell all of the tons we produce.
Through our investments we have the flexibility to readily ship our sales across end markets as demand changes.
We have shown over time that we pick our sales opportunities based on achieving optimal realized price and margin.
This will be no different in 2015 and is possible because we serve a diverse customer base we deploy a close-to-the-market customer strategy and we sell into a market that consumes many multiples of our annual production.
We have filled our first quarter order book for potash and Trio.
Moving into 2015 potash pricing has been stable and we anticipate stability through the spring.
The strong demand for Trio has prompted a posted Trio price increase in January.
On the cash operating cost side for potash 2015 should approximate 2014's level as we manage through the weather impact from the fall of 2014.
The trend will be for lower costs in the second half of the year.
And then in 2016 we expect to see further decreases.
The incremental step change in our per-ton cash cost structure for potash in 2016 is a function of the growth in our solar tons.
Two favorable drivers occur as we move through this year and into next.
The first is the incremental HB production.
HB production will grow this year over 2014 and will grow again in 2016 as we ramp up to full production rates.
As production increases cash operating costs will continue to go down.
Current indicators at HB give me confidence that in 2016 we will produce within our estimated effective capacity of between 160 000 and 200 000 tons of potash.
The second favorable driver is the return to normal production at Wendover our lowest-cost facility.
As we told you in October production for this year will be down due to the abnormally poor evaporation conditions in 2014.
With average evaporation conditions this year we should see a step-up in production and related improvements to costs in 2016.
To put the solar solution mining benefit into context there is more than $110-per-ton difference in cash operating costs between our solar solution portfolio and our conventionally mined tons.
This delta is projected to widen as solar production grows.
We have a solid foundation entering 2015.
We emerged from last year having generated free cash flow and now enjoy an even stronger balance sheet.
We are reviewing our capital structure and cash use priorities looking to pricing and cost trends in the second half of the year.
We intend to remain free cash flow positive in 2015.
Our plan is to continue building our cash balance with the knowledge that a strong balance sheet provides flexibility in a commodity market that has shown volatile pricing in the midst of wild currency swings.
We continue to evaluate capital return as we enter the second half of this year.
As we have said before our major capital projects are behind us.
As we look towards our term growth strategy we are currently focused on 4 distinct objectives.
Number one how to best and most appropriately provide shareholder return.
Number two add low-cost higher-margin solar solution tons.
We own the leases to the AMAX/Horizon mine which is adjacent to our HB complex and therefore well suited to leverage the infrastructure we currently have in place.
We are currently in the permitting stage and only need to add slight incremental costs to bring on more tons.
Number three expand Trio production.
As we saw this past year we can earn more cash flow per ton on Trio than potash.
Number four continue improving efficiencies at our conventional facilities to drive down per-ton costs.
I'm very pleased with our accomplishments in 2014.
We accomplished a great deal of what we'd set out to do.
We sold a record number of potash tons.
We have HB up and running on time and on target.
We maximized and expanded our realized price advantage.
We've continued to build and deepen our strong customer relationships.
We've lowered our G&amp;A expenses and we generated free cash flow.
Now Brian will update you on the financial results and outlook.
Thanks Bob and good morning.
We earned fourth quarter adjusted EBITDA of $29.4 million more than double fourth quarter of 2013's result.
Full year adjusted EBITDA totaled $95.3 million which is down about 10% from the prior year.
Adjusted net income for the quarter was $5.1 million or $0.07 a share.
We had adjusted net loss in the prior year's fourth quarter of $8 million or about $0.11 a share.
For the full year adjusted net income was $8.4 million or $0.11 a share.
The decrease in our full year adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income was driven predominantly by stronger pricing environment that existed in the first half of 2013.
This last quarter demonstrates the type of profitability and cash flow that we can generate when our operations are optimized.
By unlocking and delivering value from the investments we have made we generated free cash flow of $66 million in 2014.
A significant contributor to this cash flow generation was selling down our inventory which resulted in our sales volumes being in excess of production.
With this positive cash flow we finished the year with cash and investments totaling $90 million up $25 million from a year ago.
Through the actions we took in 2014 and our focus on G&amp;A expenses we reduced our full year G&amp;A expenses by 20% compared to 2013.
Our outlook for 2015 was provided in yesterday's press release.
The key points include potash sales to approximate the level of production that we deliver in 2015.
Production is expected in the range of 850 000 to 890 000 tons.
Cash operating costs are expected to be between $195 and $210 a ton which also approximates 2014's level.
Both the production and cash operating cost ranges reflect the increased production we expect from HB offset by the lower production in Wendover in 2015.
As a reminder our Wendover tons are out lowest cost tons and production is expected to be down in 2015 due to the poor evaporative conditions -- evaporative weather conditions that were in 2014.
Our total cash operating costs are anticipated to trend down in the second half of the year driven by expected higher production from our solar assets in the second half of the year.
Pricing looks firm through the spring application season but likely will be pressured in the second half of the year.
For Trio we anticipate another strong year of sales and production.
Costs are planned to improve with the gains in production.
The outlook for Intrepid in the coming years is very very positive.
Operator with that that concludes our prepared remarks.
And we're ready to take some questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question is from Adam Samuelson of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Maybe first I wanted to ask -- just a little more color and commentary on the expectation for more pricing pressure in the second half of the year.
Is that simply a reflection of crop prices and Agrium Vanscoy being fully ramped up and discussions you're having with the distribution chain or maybe a little bit color there will be helpful.
Well first and foremost we're not seeing any real reductions in application rates.
So I think that's the very positive piece is that the farmers that we see are sticking with appropriate application rates to maximize yields.
We're not feeling as much pressure from Agrium's Vanscoy ramping up as from the increased Russian tons that we've seen coming to the United States seeking hard currency.
And so we don't know to what degree that's going to continue.
So that's really the slight unknown if you will.
But from a farmer perspective the demand perspective in all of the markets that we're serving we're seeing strong demand and strong application rates.
So I guess the uncertainty that we're acknowledging is from tons that will come into our market.
I don't know if that helps or not.
Research Division</strong> It does.
And maybe just along similar lines you did call out potential for weaker oil and gas sales pressuring price realizations in 2015.
I know it's about 20% of the volume.
But can you help us quantify directionally with rig count as those rig counts go through your tons into the oil and gas market? Or is there destocking beyond that? And how big of an impact on price utilizations does that really have? Well we know the rig count is going to go down.
That's a given.
But the rigs that are running are still using our product and we're not seeing a lot of pricing pressure on the tons that are going out the door right now on the industrial sales.
So right now I think it would be inappropriate for us not to recognize that we're going to see a decline in rig count.
We don't know quite yet how that's going to specifically impact us because there are still a lot of wells that will be drilled.
There still is going to be a significant rig count and the rigs that are running will continue to use KCl.
So I would just acknowledge that we're going to see a declining rig count and we're going to do everything we can to service the rigs that are out there running.
Kelvin do you want to add any...
Yes Adam maybe just a couple of things.
We're running a lot of scenario's around that shift I guess.
I think the one thing you got to keep in mind is that we've got tremendous flexibility built into our plants and we're able to compact whatever we need.
So that's a key piece you've got to think about.
I think you also got to think about we're a very nimble small sales team and so we've already started placing or had success in placing some of these tons that might have went into the industrial business into the Ag piece.
So we're pretty comfortable with our strategy here going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then just quick final one from me on the tax rate.
Any reason the book tax rate is down 20% 25% from '15 and at what point will the company resume being a cash taxpayer? Adam this is Brian.
Yes the effective tax rate in 2015 we expect that to be a little lower.
You get a pronounced impact on the effective tax rate based on the depletion the deduction that we get a take on that.
So that's what's bringing that down a little bit with our income level where it is.
In terms of cash taxes I think the earliest you're going to see that is in 2017.
You could see a little bit in '16 but I would expect that to be '17 or beyond at this point in time.
The next question is from Brett Wong of Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Just for clarification.
So the reason we're going to be expected to pay a little higher cost for potash in 2015 that you provided in guidance is the result of the difficulties in the solar mines in 2014 and the time that it takes for production in those mines to recover? That's correct.
As we pointed out in our October call we try to be as forward-looking and specific as to the rain event that occurred back in September.
And so we're working hard to ameliorate that issue but as we've repeatedly called it out we just want to make sure that people are adequately aware of that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And there's nothing else in terms of a cost standpoint that leads to a concern right now? No not at all.
Research Division</strong> And then what's kind of the risk that those solar mines kind of don't ramp through the production that you're kind of expecting through '15 and then we start to see costs coming back down again in 2016? Well we're using about 40 years of weather data and we assume that weather generally reverts to a mean.
And so assuming we revert to the mean which we have every reason to believe we feel very comfortable that those facilities will operate at the kind of rates that they've operated for many decades.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you had mentioned the AMAX facility.
Obviously I'm sticking here with the solar solution stuff.
But you mentioned the AMAX facility wondering -- or of potential there wondering if you could talk about any effects with timing or those minimal costs that you had mentioned about bringing that up? You know as we've said repeatedly throughout the years HB Phase I represents about 20% to 22% of the -- of what we have in place in just the permitted HB facilities in terms of the reserves that are available to us.
AMAX has additional reserves.
And so as we continue to go down the permitting as we've learned over the years has been the obstacle or the barrier to entry if you will.
And the great news about having built a mill that has excess capacity and ponds that have additional capacity is that as we begin to simply drill injection wells and withdrawal wells we're talking bite-size pieces anywhere from $2 million to $8 million kind of individual expenses.
We've got the ability to ramp up stabilize and as those numbers become clearer to us we're going to share them with this but we're also going to share with you the bigger vision that we have a lot more area that we want to continue to solution mine.
So one is the bigger vision piece and as the details become more apparent we've got numbers that you can plug into models we'll certainly share them with you.
The next question is from Sandy Klugman of Vertical Research Partners.
LLC</strong> Question on how you're thinking about the impact of Belarusian tonnage in the domestic market.
Do you expect it to add to domestic supplies? Or would you expect it back out tonnage from other regions that will now have to find a home in other geographies? That's a great question.
My expectation is that it might not continue.
As to the Belarusian tons in terms of what it's replacing it's really hard to tell to the degree to which the Russians and the Belarusians are fighting over potential market share.
So I really don't have a lot of clarity for you on specifically whose tons those are going to potentially replace if they continue.
So I apologize for not having a better answer for that.
Kelvin do you want to...
Maybe I'll just add a little bit Sandy.
I think that most of the tonnage that comes in as import on the river has a finite distribution circle to it.
So it really -- I mean you're talking about Russian Israeli Chilean and potentially BPC [ph] if it continues or happens.
So I think there is a finite amount of volume that can go in there in the time that's required.
And I guess what we're looking at is potentially maybe an earlier season here and could put pressure on some of the logistics going forward.
So yes I would say that the impact might be smaller and it will be of those 3 or 4 folks that are importing.
We obviously -- as the only U.S.
potash producer we compete with all the imports and all the rest that comes here is imports.
So it's a competitive business and we feel like we're pretty comfortable in position to supply all the volume that we produce.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And follow-up question on logistics.
Logistical constraints from some of your Canadian competitors in 2014 definitely provided benefits to Intrepid.
How do you see the current outlook for logistics unfolding? And how've you adapted the company strategy to account for any potential future disruptions? Well in terms of future disruptions I think the railroad has definitely made slight improvements.
The -- there's no question that frac sand haulage is down and falling pretty rapidly which is freeing up space into the basins where we are.
So we feel like we're working with the railroads quite well.
We've developed the markets to handle -- that we serve very well.
So we think we're logistically advantaged.
There's no question that in 2014 the Canadians were logistically disadvantaged.
So we feel like we're well prepared for any situation.
We've got a decade-long history of a significant net-realized price advantage.
We've got a great customer base.
It's very diverse and we feel like we can continue to service that in a manner that reflects a decade-long history of a net-realized price advantage.
Kelvin you want to add any color to that? I think the only thing that I'd add Sandy is that we really did develop a bigger -- took a bigger piece of our business through the truck motor transport and that's one flexibility we got with how close we are to market.
So between that and our distribution strategy that was very successful in '14 and I guess we don't have any plans of changing that so we expect the same success in 2015.
The next question is from Mark Connelly of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 things.
How important is California to Trio? And if that market ends up being in a period of secular decline how important -- how much is that going to matter to you? And then the second question is just about -- with the moving parts of fracking and all that what is happening to the relative spreads between standard and granular for -- well for both Trio and potash I guess and what do you see happening in the next year with those spreads? Well that's a bunch of different issues.
I don't think the California market for Trio is -- it's a good market for us but we've got plenty of other places where we could easily place those tons at the same kind of pricing advantage.
Having spent a lot of time with California farmers those that continue to use Trio it's very much in the California market and the type crops that we're servicing aren't as water intensive as some other crops that are using the Trio.
As to the standard and granular are you really talking about the spread differential between industrial pricing and agricultural granular pricing? Was that really the question? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Yes that's what I'm trying to get at.
I'm just trying to get a sense of what the differences in your mix are going to mean overall to your spreads? Well right now we're planning on seeing a reduction in our industrial volume.
We've not yet seen that.
And we've not yet seen a lot of pricing pressure on our industrial product.
Now having said that I think we'd be foolish not to expect with a lower rig count that we're going to see some elasticity in the pricing.
And so trying to give you guidance around that I think it's premature.
So there will continue to be a -- the rig counts down approximately 30%.
But let's not forget that those other -- that 70% of rigs is still running.
And so we have every intention of trying to service that as best we can while acknowledging a reduction in the rig count.
So it's a little early in the process to really give you color as to how it's going to impact us.
The great news is based on the investments that we've made over the last several years we've got the ability to compact anything that might not go into the industrial market.
So we're ready for it.
We're prepared for it.
We've got strategy around it.
I don't know how to better answer your question at this specific point in time.
The next question is from Don Carson of Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I want to go back to your pricing comments about the second half.
You said that the Russians are more of an issue than Agrium.
But I'm just wondering what direct retail exposure you have with Agrium.
What's at risk as they try and displace third-party product? And then I know in the past you've sort of been hit by the Canadians ramping up production improving runs then try to place that in the market.
So are you concerned about the Canadians kind of jockeying for market share.
And again what's your net exposure to Agrium retail? Well fist I'd remind you Don and you know this better than anybody is that the market has been -- "had overcapacity or oversupply for 30-plus years." And so this isn't a new phenomenon.
This is something that we've dealt with at least in the 15 16 years that we've been in the for potash business.
So it's by no means a new phenomenon.
We've dealt with it before and we'll continue to deal with it in a very positive way as we've always done.
So whether or not we're seeing them from which Canadian producer doesn't really have that big an impact.
In terms of Agrium trying to supply their entire retail chain it doesn't make sense from a freight standpoint for them to try to take tons on multiple switches across the entire United States.
So there are still specific retail opportunities that we've got simply because we're very freight advantaged.
And we're seeing those -- we're continuing to make those sales and those commitments.
So I guess that's as much color as I can give you.
This isn't a new phenomenon.
LLLP Research Division</strong> And can you comment at all on your Agrium exposure or care to quantify that? Quite frankly I don't really understand the question in that Agrium is producing more tons.
The retail exposure buys from us where it is appropriate and where it make sense from a freight standpoint and they continue to do so.
So we're just not seeing it as being as big an issue as you might think.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just to follow up on your order book.
You mentioned that you're sold out for the first quarter.
What kind of demand are you seeing into the second quarter.
And overall did you see much of a shift in demand from Q4 because of a shortened application window into Q1? And does that help the demand picture this year in your markets? Well the first part I'll let Kelvin answer with specificity is that the biggest concern and the noise around going into lower commodity prices was that we were going to see reduced application rates.
And that's the one thing that we're not seeing.
So those that are farming now we may see -- I think the USDA came out with some lower acreages this morning.
I think they came out with 89 million for corn and was it 80 -- 83 million and change or 84 million acres for beans.
I think they were talking about overall planted acreage potentially down 2 million and change.
I saw it right before the call started.
So -- but the good news is on whatever acreage we're seeing utilized in our Texas market our backyard market which has now gotten very significant rainfall and is a highly robust market right now.
We're not seeing any reduction in application rates.
In fact on the hay crops we're seeing people maximizing yields there.
So once again the benefit of our geographic location and the diversity of the customers that we're serving is continuing to benefit us in terms of first quarter versus fourth quarter demand.
Kelvin you want to give some color on that? Let me just back up and talk to Q2 real quick.
We're starting to position Q2 so it's a bit early for that.
I guess I would say that based on our customer forecasts and conversations we've recently had with most of our customers they're very comfortable with going into Q2.
And so we feel like we've placed the tons forward and we're very well positioned to meet the needs of our customer across the board.
I think your question about Q4 and the shorter fall versus how that's shaping up going forward.
We did see a little bit of a slower fall mostly because of weather.
I would say that a lot of that got caught up through application in December and January here which were quite strong from a potash application point of view to the field.
So going into spring it looks to be a pretty normal spring for us and we're well positioned to be successful in that.
Next question is from Ben Isaacson of Scotiabank.
Research Division</strong> I apologize I'm going to ask another question about imports.
So with a lot of growing imports into the U.S.
Gulf really I have 2 questions.
First what is the actual bottleneck? Is it warehousing space along the river? And are we seeing kind of new investment there? Kelvin you want to try to...
To my knowledge there's not a significant amount in newbuild on the river for imports.
So...
Research Division</strong> But is that what the bottleneck is? That's certainly some of it.
I think that customers tend to be more hand-to-mouth in terms of when the farmer is telling them to take a position.
So I would say it's a shorter time line from when the farmer says he wants it to when our customer actually purchase it today.
So it's a little bit more challenging to have a long distribution chain coming from somewhere offshore.
Research Division</strong> And then I guess just part of that with lower seaborne shipping costs is the U.S.
price or perhaps the U.S.
premium just simply too high right now relative to other markets? Well it is what it is and it continues to be what it is.
It's by far and away the best market in the world and people would like to participate in this market.
But it is a just-in-time market.
It's a market that requires a product that has really strong shelf life.
It's a market that demands the highest-quality product that's available.
And so it is in a very attractive market that we're very glad that we're right in the middle of it because it's clearly the best market in the world.
So producers would like to be here.
But it's a challenging market to get to and serve on a just-in-time basis as significantly or as adequately as Intrepid is able to do so.
Next question is from Chris Parkinson of Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Can you further elaborate on your netback maximization strategies particularly any additional opportunities that have presented themselves within your core truck market? And also whether or not the shift from industrial to agricultural affects us? Yes I guess the answer to your first question is no.
We're pretty good at marketing and we know why we're good at marketing and to share it in this public of fashion I don't think is appropriate.
So I apologize for not going into all the details of our strategy for you.
What was the second part of your question? Research Division</strong> Whether or not the shift from industrial to agricultural affects us and whether or not that's going to shift the maximization strategy a little bit.
Well if we end up granulating more yes it will affect our net-realized price and it will affect some of our margin.
But once again it depends on which markets we put those tons into.
So the very simple answer to your question of if we sell fewer industrial tons and granulate those and sell them into the Ag market it will have an impact.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And just a quick follow-up.
Can you also highlight the rough production potential to shift -- the potential to shift from more Trio versus potash given your Carlsbad assets versatility production? Go ahead.
That's -- it's something we strive to that premium and granular market for Trio is very strong.
And so we continue to work really hard to produce as much of that as we can.
We've had some good success improving some of our palletizer premium production over the last quarter.
And so we -- that's our strategy is to continue to produce as much of that as we can as that market is very strong.
The next question is from Joel Jackson of BMO Capital Markets.
I thought I also would follow-up on the import just because some of the comments I think you made earlier that you're not necessarily expecting Belarusian tons or not sure.
I know there's been a bit of pushback from the industry to try to lobby to try to have sanctions maybe reinstated or some dialogue around that.
Looking at some of your customers that have been buying some of these tons I mean do you get the sense that they don't have really any issues buying from Belarus? Or maybe you could talk about that.
Well the first thing I would say is the sanctions never ended.
And so if you were to contact the Treasury Department or the State Department they would confirm that sanctions never ended.
And so they don't take a position -- a clear position.
I would direct you to the TFI memo that tells customers to proceed with extreme caution because the penalties are so severe.
Quite frankly we don't know of many customers that have actually bought Belarusian tons because of the severity of the penalties and they're outlined quite clearly in the TFI memo which I guess I would refer you to.
So...
That was because I've seen the memo and I've seen the Treasury statement so that was why my question was have you actually seen on the customer side them taking the that type of document serious or not.
Yes we have.
Okay.
I also want to ask you a question on this.
So you talked a little bit about looking at maybe capital allocation decisions in the second half of the year.
You gave some ideas of where you may go.
You are building cash as you say.
It looks like from your guidance that you don't expect to repay a fair bit of debt this year.
You don't have anything on a dividend right now.
You don't have any material capital projects that you've committed to.
When you look at where you're going to spend your money maybe talk about the trade-off of doing some of the efficiency projects in some of your conventional mines or expanding solar solution or returning cash to shareholders.
Well Joel as you adequately pointed out in your first question the Belarusian issue wasn't even an issue until the time period between Christmas and New Years.
And so balance sheet flexibility provided us with a lot of flexibility to react to a situation that was heretofore not even imagined before Christmas.
So as we continue to look forward we recognize it.
We're looking out as far as we can.
But as you so adequately pointed out there are things that have occurred that we're trying to take in and understand and appreciate the potential impacts.
So unfortunately between the time that we had a Russian mine flood in November and had 2.5 million tons taken off the market we also then have the Belarusians come in which we believe are under sanction.
So we've also seen some pretty significant wild currency swings where the Russians were trying to come get hard currency.
So there are a lot of moving parts right now that we're trying to pay very close attention to acknowledge not run away from but at the same time recognize it.
It's our strong balance sheet that allows us to very very adequately and profitably weather any potential storm.
This is my last question.
Actually it would be on some of your efficiency projects that you could pursue to maybe bring down costs on some of your conventional mines.
Can you give a little bit of color of what some of the projects in the pipeline could be? Yes one is at West as we continue to move to a much higher ore grade in the 10th ore zone.
It's going to have a little bit higher clay content.
And so we're working on new technologies that have been successful for us in terms of how do we ramp that up to produce and gain the benefits from the higher ore grade while at the same time deslime and deal with the removal of clay at our West Mine as we begin to month-by-month increase our pelletization rates at our Trio plant as we work on the fine line recovery at our Trio plan and make month-by-month improvements there as HB continues to ramp up and ramp up quite successfully and have better and better production days and that mine -- that plant has -- was built with excess capacity.
We're going to try to run more capacities through that.
So that's just a flavor of the few of the projects that are out there that we have that really drop money to the bottom line.
That's just a few examples of the low-hanging fruit.
The next question is from Christopher Perrella of Bloomberg Intelligence.
Could you comment on the market dynamics in the New Mexico market with the competitor mine shutdown at this point? Has that eased some of the pressure with the potential slowdown in rig counts? Very much so.
More on the -- they didn't sell a lot of industrial product out of that facility.
And so it's helped the truck market.
They've built up a pretty significant inventory in anticipation of closing that mine down.
So they're still working through some of the inventory.
We anticipate that that will be done in the next few months.
So we're seeing benefits from the numerous employees that they laid off that we've seen a very talented workforce.
We've seen reduced pressure from the oil and gas industry on that area.
We've seen reduced pressure on the highway system on the electrical grid system on the water system.
So there continue to be benefits in Carlsbad that we're seeing from the shutdown of that MLP facility.
All right.
And my other question would be in your assumptions is the Wendover mine then back at full production rates for 2016? And how many tons are you expecting to produce from HB in 2015? Brian you want to go through the guidance again? Yes.
On the HB side of things I mean that facility continues to -- we're looking at that effective capacity of 160 000 to 200 000 tons in 2016.
We had 98 000 tons that went through that in 2014.
So as we've spoken we're on track to meeting those goals as we've talked about.
So everything there seems to be as Bob said moving in the right direction with returns of production.
In terms of the Wendover facility as we highlighted earlier in the call and back in October given some of the evaporative conditions we saw in 2014 we believe that 2015 numbers will be down.
But then again as Bob spoke to we have decades of weather data out there.
We expect the weather information and weather conditions to revert back to the norm.
And so as those things revert back to the norm you'll continue to see some increases in Wendover in the latter half of '15 and probably into '16 as well.
The next question is from Vincent Andrews of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> This is Neel Kumar calling in for Vincent Andrews.
We just had a question about your inventory levels.
Can you just talk about how much was drawn down last year and how much do you expect needs to be refilled this year? Kelvin you want to...
Sure.
Well you're right.
We had a great sales year in 2014.
We broke a number of sales and shipping records as you've heard already today.
We have managed our inventory down at all plants both in Utah and Carlsbad.
So this coming year you can see our guidance is matching our production with our sales numbers.
So there's no magic to that.
We're managing very tightly between those 2 entities the production and the sales volumes.
The next question is from Andrew Wong from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> So just from the commentary on demand this year it sounds like pretty positive for the first half and then challenges in the second half.
But when looking at the guidance you have higher sales in the second half versus the first.
Could you just reconcile that? Is it mostly based on the production ramp and the expectation that whatever you produce you can sell? That's the first and kind of easy answer.
But in terms of demand we see strong demand in the areas where there -- where we're operating.
So if you look at all the areas that we're selling into we're still seeing good solid significant demand.
So we're not really forecasting a true softening in demand.
Kelvin if you want to give some color around that.
Maybe we'll just back up to this upcoming spring season and I would say we're encouraged by farmers being engaged application rates being strong all the things that are indicating a very positive upcoming spring season.
The southern markets right now are too wet to actually get going.
So that's encouraging as well because when they go they will go and they'll apply necessary rates.
I think it's more of a unknown in the back half more so than -- we can have a pretty good -- or clear crystal ball for the first half.
The second half is a little bit more cloudy if you will.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I mean -- it sounded also from your comments that it was more on the supply side that was causing some challenges maybe on pricing.
So is the expectation if you have more sales in the back half that you can gain a little bit of share.
Is that really -- is that what you're putting into your estimates? I guess we're just looking at our historical ability to sell what we produce.
And I'll just remind you that the market has been in overcapacity for well over 30 years.
And this is an environment that we've just always dealt with.
So it's not a new phenomenon.
It's something that we've dealt with year-over-year-over-year.
And so we feel like we know our markets.
We know the diversity of our markets.
We know the products and the customers and we have every anticipation that we'll continue to sell what we produce.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's fair.
And just longer term I understand the desire to have more lower-cost production from the solar solution projects.
Is it envisioned that whatever you bring on from the solar solution longer term it could be an expansion of capacity? Or does it replace some of the higher-cost conventional production? Are there any plans for that? Right now we see it as expansion.
And so in the markets we serve we see the demand for those tons.
So in our very natural geographic markets we see good solid demand that we feel like we can serve as well.
At this point seeing no other questions I'm going to turn it over to Bob for conclusion.
I want to thank everybody for taking the time to dial in.
We really appreciate your interest in Intrepid.
We look forward to speaking with everybody in the near future.
Thank you very much again.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may disconnect your line.
Thank you for participating and have a pleasant day.
Thank you for standing by.
This is the Chorus Call conference operator.
Welcome to the Intrepid Potash Inc.
First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
As a reminder all participants are in a listen-only mode and the conference is being recorded.
After the presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
[Operator Instructions] At this time Id like to turn the conference over to Gary Kohn Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead Mr.
Kohn.
Thanks Joe.
Good morning and thank you.
Hello everyone and welcome to our call today.
I will remind everyone that parts of our discussion will include forward-looking statements as defined by the U.S.
Securities Laws.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are based on a number of assumptions which we believe are reasonable.
These statements are based on the information available to us today and we are not assuming any obligation to update them.
You can find more information about risks and uncertainties to our future performance in our periodic reports filed with the SEC.
During today's call we will refer to certain non-GAAP financial and operational measures.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included in this mornings press release.
Our SEC filings and press releases are available on our website at intrepidpotash.com.
Presenting on the call today are Bob Jornayvaz our Co-founder Executive Chairman President and CEO; and Brian Frantz our Interim Chief Financial Officer.
Kelvin Feist our Senior Vice President of Sales and Marketing is also available for Q&amp;A.
With that I'll turn the call over to Bob.
Thank you Gary and good morning to everyone.
We entered this year with our strategy and business model in good shape.
We have a clear objective of increasing shareholder value by delivering long-term profitable growth and increased cash flows.
Our success in building a model of sustainable profitable growth in cash flow is predicated on three objectives to which we have remained committed.
First selling into the best opportunities where we achieve the highest net realized price margin and cash flow possible.
Second creating even more margin and cash flow per ton by expanding our low cost solar potash production while also lowering production costs at our conventional mines.
And third growing production and sales of our highly sought-after special nutrient Trio.
We have for the past decade led the North American producers an average net realized sales price per ton for potash by more than 25%.
We have achieved this advantage through a sales and marketing strategy that includes a distribution infrastructure through which we better serve our customers.
We have also cultivated a diverse set of markets to reduce our exposure to downturns in any single segment.
In addition we leveraged our advantage geographic footprint to compete in favorable in-markets.
The second part of our strategy is to lower cash operating costs across our facilities.
We will lower our cost by increasing the number of tons we produce using our solar mine - solution mining and solar evaporation expertise and assets.
Solar production is integral to Intrepid's long-term margin and cash flow profile as these tons are produced at nearly $110 per ton less than our conventional tons.
At full run rates our solar assets operate at per ton cash cost that are well positioned on the global cost curve.
We're pleased that HB is ramping up to full production this year and that our solar assets are performing quite well.
This progress is apparent in our first quarter solar production which was up more than 50% from the quarter of 2014.
For all of 2015 we expect our solar production to contribute more than one-third of our total potash production up meaningfully from 2013.
The natural long-term opportunity for Intrepid is the expansion of our solar capacity and assets.
We have more underground workings in potash reserves to access including the Amax Mine.
The Amax properly fits nicely into our Carlsbad portfolio since its location will allow it once permitted to utilize our existing HB infrastructure.
The permitting process is progressing well.
Concurrent with expansion plans for low-cost solar tons is the ongoing effort to lower cost at our convention mines.
We have several process improvement initiatives underway that are part of the systemic optimization of our facilities.
Having the major capital projects in the rearview mirror allows us to time and focus to pursue refinements to our process that will lead to our goal of lower production cost.
Our third priority is to grow our Trio business.
Trio is a major success for us.
And we believe that we have the ability to produce and sell even more tons than we do today.
In the quarter Trio generated more than $150 of cash flow per ton sold making it apparent while we are so eager to produce and sell even more.
We are confident in our ability to build on the sequential Trio success we've already achieved.
We are continuing to enhance our pelletization rates and have several additional upgrades that we are currently plant testing.
We are also under construction and installation of several pieces of new equipment and technology that Intrepid is designed engineered and tested over time to enhance our recovery and process results.
Finally we are taking the steps to access our untapped high-grade langbeinite reserves which exist below the ore zones we are currently mining.
Importantly as we have strengthened our balance sheet and positioned ourselves to continue generating positive cash flow our philosophy towards capital structure has not changed and shareholder value is paramount.
Our first priority is to build cash on hand to provide us with flexibility to weather volatility in commodity prices.
Our second priority is to reinvest in our growth projects including expansion of our solar capability and increased Trio production.
Our third priority is to sustain our existing assets to maximize production at the lowest cost possible.
We continue to evaluate the best way and timing to return capital to shareholders in this volatile environment.
I want to emphasize my confidence in Intrepid's future.
We have made the investments to upgrade our infrastructure and to be appropriate positioned for the long-term.
We're optimizing our operations.
We have solar assets running well.
We have increased cash flow which has strengthened our balance sheet and will fund our investments to grow our solar production and Trio capabilities.
Now Brian will update you on the financial results and outlook.
Thanks Bob and good morning everyone.
We had strong first quarter results building on the momentum of fourth quarter.
Compared to 2014s first quarter we expanded our gross margin and generated more cash flow per ton for both potash and Trio.
Our average net realized sales prices for both potash and Trio increased over the fourth quarter of 2014.
We earned adjusted EBITDA of $32.5 million; adjusted net income of $6.5 million; and adjusted EPS of $0.09 a share.
The first quarter of 2014 resulted in adjusted EBITDA of $16.8 million and an adjusted net loss of $1 million.
We generated $136 million of cash flow per ton of potash sold in the first quarter.
This was 50% increase from last year's first quarter and was a result of higher net realized sales prices of $45 a ton combined with improved cash operating cost.
We sold 231 000 tons in the quarter down slightly from last year's very strong first quarter.
Our first quarter production was 237 000 tons which compares to 220 000 a year ago.
On the Trio side we also expanded cash flow year-over-year by 61% to $156 per ton.
The strengthening in Trio pricing continued into the first quarter and our posted for a price increases resulted in a net average realized sales price of $367 a ton.
Comparing that to 2014s first quarter we improve our cash operating cost by $35 a ton.
Positive trends and reduced losses in the conversion of standard size Trio to premium size Trio have reduced our production cost for Trio.
We updated our financial outlook in this morning's press release.
As the spring season progresses we expect our customers to exit the season with little to no inventory as they await summer fill programs.
This cycle is not new to us and I'm confident that we have the experience and customer relationships to be successful in this challenging environment.
Expected potash sales volume for the first half has been modified by about 7 500 tons to the new midpoint from the previous midpoint.
Second half expectation of potash sales volumes remains unchanged.
Cash operating cost for potash are still expected to be between $195 and $210 per ton in 2015.
The ranges for both the first and second half of the year remain unchanged.
It's worth noting that we expect a normal seasonal pattern for solar tons as well as the annual maintenance turnaround at our west facilitate to cost second quarters potash cash operating cost to be the highest quarter of the year.
The trend through the third and fourth quarter should be for steady improvement with the fourth quarter being the lowest quarter of the year.
This pattern is driven by the timing of the harvest and subsequent sale of low-cost solar production which resumes in the third quarter.
For Trio the ranges are essentially unchanged from previous guidance.
We've tightened the bottom end of the sales range for the first quarter and full-year and slightly modified the first halfs cash operating cost outlook.
We continue to anticipate our capital investment range between $40 million and $50 million for 2015 and expect the year to be cash flow positive.
We expect an effective tax rate for 2015 of around 30%.
Although the effective tax rate has increased as a result of our strong first quarter we still expect to pay very little cash taxes in 2015.
The results for the quarter show the power of our business most notably from our solar solution mines by selling into the best margin and realized price opportunities together with lower cash operating cost.
We delivered strong earnings and cash flow.
Operator with that this concludes our prepared remarks.
We're ready to take some questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] There will be a brief moment while we pole for questions.
The first question today is from Mark Connelly with CLSA.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Bob two things.
First can you help us understand just a little more - you said that you don't expect a very different restock but you did take the volumes for Q2 down.
So I'm not sure I understand exactly going on there.
Second as I think bigger picture about Trio your operating rates are picking up.
You say your sales may actually match capacity.
So is it time for us to start thinking about the next Trio capacity expansion yet or maybe you could just talk us about the way youre thinking about capital spending overall? I guess let me answer the first question.
I think it's the timing of when we see the summer fill this year.
The spring is actually off to a much more normal season than it feels.
We started out warm then we got cold then we got wet.
And so there was just -- I'm not going to say a slow start because if you look at where we are with the corn plantings right now were ahead of last year but were well below the five-year average.
So I think a lot of that discussion around second quarter and what were going to see happen in the second quarter is the timing of when we might see a summer fill program.
Kelvin I don't know if you want to add a little bit of color to that and then Ill come back to your langbeinite question.
I think that's right Mark.
What we believe is that our retailers are very focused on the spring season right now.
They don't really want to talk about a summer fill.
So we got to let them get through their spring here and then have them consider what theyre going to do here for fall.
So I think we just need some patience there.
So in effect you're saying that even though were not having a particularly late-season we may have sort of a late response? I think we have to acknowledge commodity prices.
And so I think there is a much more wait-and-see attitude that we're seeing from the customer.
The customer that were seeing planning his acres is not skimping on application rates.
So we're seeing strong movement when the moment is occurring to the field.
It's just - I think there is a perception with corn and beans price to where they are that there is - I would just say a more cautious attitude in the market.
And so we're trying to reflect that caution that were feeling in our release.
So that's how it describes.
As to langbeinite.
Were making a lot of process improvements as we speak.
We're doing some very aggressive testing in our pelletization program that were seeing some very good results on.
Were adding several pieces of equipment that we've designed are currently under construction to the current process stream if you will.
Were making improvements to the dryer conveyor belts all things that are built into our current capital budget and capital forecasts that we've given you.
We think well make significant process improvements and help us on our langbeinite tons.
As we move forward as we've said before we're sitting on some of the best langbeinite ore reserves in the world that are untapped that are underneath our current fifth and seventh ore zones that were mining.
At our East mine were mining the tenth fifth and seventh.
And the ore zones that exist in the third and the fourth are very significant and high-grade.
So we're taking the steps to access those reserves.
So as weve tried to say we think we have great opportunities in the langbeinite with bolt-on incremental investments that are bite-size pieces that will substantially improve our recoveries and allows to produce more langbeinite tons in the future.
And if I didn't answer your question I'm happy to give additional clarity.
So Mark do you feel I answered your question? That's very helpful.
Thank you.
And thank you Kelvin.
You're welcome.
The next question is from Sandy Klugman with Vertical Research Partners.
Please go ahead.
Yes thank you and good morning.
So there has been a lot of concern about how competitive the domestic potash market was going to get in 2015 as last years real constraint fees [ph] and additional capacity came online in Canada.
Now that were fore launched into the year how would you classify the competitive landscape relative to prior years? We saw a few more - we saw a little bit more juggling for market share later in the year and early in the first quarter.
We saw some pressure with a little bit of additional tonnage from Uralkali.
I dont - we're not seeing massive infusions.
And so this is a great market and it's a great diverse market.
And I think most potash producers around the world want the United States as part of their portfolio.
And so we did see additional tons come into the marketplace but not anywhere near as intrusive as it could have been.
The market has held up pretty darn well considering when you look at some of the other commodity markets.
So I think - once again I don't know if I'm answering your question Sandy.
I'm happy to elaborate more.
No that's helpful.
And just a follow-up.
There is a perception that potash is one of the more discretionary fertilizers.
But just to clarify based on your comments it doesn't seem that what you're seeing is the growers response to sub $4 [ph] harvest month futures has been a reduction in application rates.
I just kind of want to clarify that.
What we see with our well-managed corporate farmers they don't skimp any on application rates in terms of what their agronomists and their crop advisors tell them to do.
So on our sophisticated farmers which fortunately every year we see more and more farmers that are becoming more highly sophisticated we don't see any skimping on application rates.
Now there is still a percentage of farmers out there that I would say look to save very few truly skimp.
So I just think that as farming becomes more sophisticated and were seeing a much higher percentage of sophisticated highly mechanized of farmers same with bankers.
And if you look at land leases most land leases have requirements for levels of fertilization.
So there is a lot of things working in the favor of optimizing yields economics.
So we see most farmers try to optimize yields once they've decided to plant an acre.
I think the bigger variable is what is the gross of volume of acres theyre going to be planted and I think everyone believes that were going to see about 88 million acres of corn which is right down the middle of fairway and it's going to wind up with very substantial potash usage here.
So once again does that give you a little color around how were looking at it? That's helpful.
Thank you.
Operator: The next question is from Adam Samuelson with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Yes thanks.
Good morning everyone.
I wanted to just actually go a little bit deeper on the pricing comments that you made earlier about - just acknowledging more competitive markets as you go through the balance of the year.
If you look at the Midwest pricing its down about $20 in the start of the year.
You look at the NOLA barge rate its down even more.
Should we contemplate decline to that magnitude in your second quarter or are you able to pre-sell tons at the higher winter fill level or help us think about how youre kind of contemplating the pricing trajectory through the rest of the spring? I think the best way - Adam it's a great question.
And were very much taking a wait-and-see approach.
We've recently read the same press releases that youve read from the Russians and the Belarusians in terms of decreased volumes that they are going to export.
I think as May plays out and we see the corn crop get planted and the bean crop get planted people will start to look and talk about and well see the degree to which - we've seen tons imported in the United States which would have the impact on pricing.
So we're taking a very much wait-and-see approach.
I don't think that lower prices are necessarily going to stimulate additional demand for a pretty stable U.S.
market in terms of tonnage used.
So we're just taking a wait-and-see attitude as to what additional tons are going to come into the market if any and what impact they are going to have.
So I understand that if we do see a summer fill program that generally equates to a reduction in price.
We're not hearing anyone talk about a summer fill program yet.
And so were on the sidelines watching and waiting and just really ready to execute our marketing strategy.
Okay.
And maybe along the similar lines can you talk about how your oil and gas business did in the quarter? I mean the rig count is down by nearly half or if more than half from the peak last fall.
Obviously thats a meaningful market for you guys.
How does the oil and gas business is performing and how does that impacted your mix and aggregate price realizations in the quarter? We saw a reduction in volumes but not necessarily price.
Pricing for our industrial tons in the oil and gas market were really stable surprisingly stable.
And so once again if we were to lower price for oil and gas products we're not going to change the rig count.
So the rig count is going to be whatever the rig count is going to be and Intrepid will react accordingly to whatever drilling activity occurs in various parts of a geographic region.
But the price of potash doesn't direct whether or not someone is going to stand a rig up.
So we don't have any direct impact on what's going to happen to rigs getting - to whether or not someone stands up a rig.
And so were going to try to maintain as much pricing stability as we can.
We definitely saw some drawdown on the volume.
And we'll compact that and sell it in the Ag market or some of our other industrial markets and continue to search out the best netbacks that we can possibly achieve.
Okay.
And then just a quick last one for me.
SG&amp;A guidance for the year ticked up and why that SG&amp;A up by 10% this year? Well the first which is a smaller amount of cash revolves around some legal and professional fees around one - Im not going to say it's an ongoing issue but there is one issue that we took on this year thats a trade issue.
So we wanted to reflect that.
The other is some performance grants that I was granted that are risk-based around the price of our stock if we achieved certain goals with price appreciation so that's non-cash.
So that's how we account for.
Brian if you want to give any additional...
Yes the only thing I'd add to that Adam is the accounting recognition for that happens over the term of the grant regardless as to where the stock price goes.
So you get that non-cash charge coming through and that was the big driver for the increase in SG&amp;A.
And it's a non-cash charge regardless of whether or not the stock has earned.
Okay that's very helpful.
Thank you.
Next question is from Don Carson with Susquehanna Financial.
Please go ahead.
Yes just a follow-up on pricing.
So basically last year it was an anomaly we had a $30 price increase during summer fill which I can't remember last time that happened.
Typical we had a $30 decline.
So is it your feeling that that's what dealers are anticipating would be a summer fill discount and hence theyre really waiting to see the details of the that announcement? And then secondly what impact are you seeing in terms of Agrium getting ready to place additional [indiscernible] tons through their retail system either on the overall market or specifically what impact might that have on Intrepid sales? Yes let's go back and clarify.
Youre right the price did go up last summer and then the price has come back down.
And so that's why I don't know that we need an additional price decrease in the summer to potentially stimulate demand.
I think demand is going to be where it's going to be based on what acres are planted and where we wind up with the spring.
So I think we've seen from a pricing standpoint it's our belief that we've seen a lot of curve over the last nine months.
And I don't think additional price decreases will necessarily stimulate demand.
What was the second part of your question Don I apologize? The impact of...
We've been hearing this question for a year now.
We're just not saying major impacts in our geographic markets from what Agrium is doing.
Kelvin if you want to add some color to that? Hi Don let me add a little bit.
I guess the first thing is our distribution capability.
And we've done a great job over the last few years of really managing that part of our business and making sure that we maintain our volumes with specific customers.
So we're pretty comfortable with the strategy that weve put in place and expect to maintain our volumes with them.
I think it's really more about being partners with the customer and we feel like we had some pretty strong relationships to rely on there.
And then just as a follow-up.
Bob you talked about making evaluation of returning capital to shareholders.
Obviously CapEx is coming down dramatically.
Youve got an under-levered balance sheet.
What was the timing of when you're going to make this decision on returning capital to shareholders? Well we talk about it quite a bit.
We watch the environment around us.
We listen and evaluate very clearly the volatility and other commodity markets.
And so inherent in that decision is the discussion that you started with concern about price.
And so we have to be very realistic that Don Carsons will bring price first.
And so we are always trying to balance what is the best way and timing to return capital to shareholders and still evaluate potential price risk and continued volatility.
So we look at that.
And as we do reduce our - were looking at it very closely.
And I really don't have anything to add to that other than as the largest shareholder were aligned and I would love to see as sharp return capital to shareholders.
Thank you.
The next question is from Christopher Parkinson with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Perfect.
Thank you.
You mentioned in your prepared remarks that your solar assets are operating currently at about $110 less than your conventional assets.
Can you comment on the potential range of the level given different season the normals? So if youre above expectations or youre slightly below expectations? Chris this is Brian here.
As we ramp up those solar assets they continue - I mean HB continues to perform very well.
And as you know all of our solar assets contribute to low cost production tons.
And so as more of those come online the better off we are.
Those tons are coming in as we said at $100 $110 less than that convention ones.
So we expect that to continue going into the future.
You are going to see a little bit of an uptick in our cash COGS as we said during the second quarter here as the Moab site and the HB site are in their normal summer shutdown during the evaporation season.
So when they ramp back up in the third and fourth quarter again you will see those cash cost began to come down with that fourth quarter being the lowest quarter of the year.
Perfect.
And justly quick follow-up.
You mentioned you expect Trio pricing to remain stable from 1Q levels but you did include a comment at least the potential for further pressure in MOP markets.
Is that solely due to just relative product demand dynamics or is there actually a geographic component in there as well? The first and foremost the Trio market is a growing market.
So the great part of the Trio market is that demand is outpacing supply pretty significantly.
So whenever you're in a growing market and have a product where the need for it is growing pricing stability and the price increase has been possible.
So first its understanding that you're in a market that we're seeing greater geographic demand than we had ever anticipated and good solid demand for the product.
So that's first and foremost is the difference.
And given that there is only one langbeinite deposit in the world and its in Southeast New Mexico we've seen people try to substitute and there arent substitutes for it and you've seen the strength in the SOP market which is an entirely different product and that it doesn't have the magnesium.
But it doesn't have any chlorides.
So this is just a part of the market that is expanding.
And as farmers become more educated and they see the need for the magnesium and the sulfur that's why we have the pricing power for the product.
Kelvin you want to add any color to that? Yes maybe I'll just add a little bit.
I guess I really see that that Trio market detached from the MOP market.
So that's an important consideration that you need to think about.
We've gone through a very tight supply of our Trio product here this year again.
So that's bolstering some of that side of the business.
But I think there is a lot of acres that are looking for a low chloride product.
There is some significant deficiency of magnesium certainly on the Eastside and if you go through Nebraska there is some of that.
And then there is stronger demand for sulfate.
So all that plays very well into the Trio business.
I think finally we've expanded our geography with that product.
So we're just covering more ground and able to supply some of that demand out there in various geographies.
Perfect.
Thank you very much.
The next question is from Vincent Andrews with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Could you just talk a little bit about sort of - I know you said that you're not expecting the dealers to - or youre expecting them to finish with empty bins.
But can you sort of compare and contrast this year versus last year in terms of where we were when we came into the season with inventory? I know last year there seem to be a lot that was sitting there on consignment that get drawn down and then there were logistical challenges refilling it.
So how do you think that all shakes out year-over-year? Well I think we wind up with a situation that was say very similar to last year in terms of at the end of the season everyone was empty as we didnt saw a price increase to restock.
Now I'm not suggesting that were going to see the same thing that we saw last year but we're going to be in a very similar situation in terms of the inventory thats out there.
And so I think people are waiting to see how big the acreage is that actually gets planted and what the farmer economics look like.
And I think that's what's going to drive potash pricing is overall economics and perceived acres that might be planted on a going forward basis.
So there is a wait-and-see attitude.
And we're just not seeing any pressure on the markets to try to push summer fill right now.
And from a producer standpoint we're happy to see that.
So were on the sidelines servicing our customers needs here.
The good news is is that were going to see most of the United States other than California with great moisture levels.
So I think were going to see demand for lots of different crops throughout the United States.
The only area thats really in severe drought continues to be California.
And the customers that we're servicing in California despite growing difficulties or differences were still seeing almond farmers with access to ore.
So that's really the only area.
Kelvin do you want to add anything? Yes Vincent the first thing is retailers never want to carry any amount of inventory after a spring season.
I think thats normal from last year to this year.
I think the one difference that I would say is that logistics really drove a lot of their decision-making last year.
If you remember they never did really catch up.
So I would say retail took a position earlier because of those tight supplies through the winter last year.
And there is no sense of urgency.
I mean we haven't even finished our spring season here.
So we don't really know the mindset of the retailer and the farmer until they get the seed in the ground and start thinking about fall.
So we're just being very patient with that and I think that's the right thing to do right now.
Okay.
And just as a quick follow-up.
Mosaic shutdown its MOP at Carlsbad.
Presumably thats a favorable dynamic for you but maybe if you just kind of compare and contrast that with the pressure coming in from the Gulf with the imports? Well it's had a lot of benefits.
It's had benefits from a power standpoint usage on highway standpoint labor - dealings with regulatory authorities.
We've seen a great access to the truck market that they used to service.
Those customers are now coming over to us.
They did hold up.
They did produce enough inventory to be able to - I think they actually shutdown - we're not sure of the exact timing it outdoes them but it appears to us they shutdown sometime in January or February but produced enough or some inventory to try to take them through this month.
So they have been in the market but at a substantially reduced rate.
So we're looking forward to picking up that MOP market truck market as they finally exit stage left.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
I appreciate it.
The next question is from Joel Jackson with BMO Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Most of my questions have been answered but I had a couple.
There has been some chatter in some of the local media in New Mexico about water usage by some of your mines and I think your perspective on Amax.
Can you give a little of color on that please? Yes it turns out that that was - we actually appeared in the front of the Lee County Council just last Thursday and there was another newspaper article correcting the first newspaper article.
Unfortunately with newspaper corrections they don't quite get the same circulation as the first piece.
So what they did not realize was that 89% of the water that was being used is non-potable water.
And so there was an article suggesting that we were using 100% potable water.
So I think that issue has been very clearly put to bed.
We spent last week down in New Mexico with various officials news agencies correcting the misconception.
So I think thats in the rearview mirror.
Okay.
And finally you seem to be talking about expecting Trio price stability and of course a little bit of maybe potash price pressure.
If I take those comments - and we know that Trio - the Trio premium over potash has been eroding a little bit over last few quarters.
Does that mean you expect the Trio premium to expand in the next few quarters over potash? Kelvin why don't you answer that first.
But the one part that I just have to drive home is that Trio is a growing market.
And so we see more demand all the way from the Pacific Northwest going into the Midwest all the way over to Florida.
So it's a national market that has developed.
So that the strength that we're seeing is because that product is more desired throughout the entire United States as we've gotten out and educated farmers and talked to retailers about the benefits of the product.
So the first part is to really understand is that is a growing market.
And so Kelvin if you want to add some.
Yes I guess I don't think of it is eroding Trio price side of things.
It's really about the mix of the products were selling there.
And I guess we feel like its very strong and you're saying pretty flat pricing on the Trio side so flat to up.
On the potash price side we've already talked about that extensively but really we think that it's more measured against the commodity pricing and a number of other things that are happening in the current market.
But if you look globally there is actually some strength or some - I would call it strength actually in the international S&amp;D balance for potash.
So to assume that North America is in a very different spot than that I don't know if that's the right way to think about it.
Sorry my question was that the Trio price premium had been eroding a little bit in previous quarters but based on your commentary would you expect the premium to rise over the next few quarters? Are you talking about just the pure delta between Yes of your realized price of Trio over potash.
Yes.
Well if Trio goes up and potash goes down then yes that premium is going to expand.
And so we don't see any reason for Trio prices to go down based on demand.
And we've tried to give a pretty clear articulation as to some of the potential risks in the potash markets that everyone has identified in their questions.
So if you're talking about just the math equation of if Trio prices remain stable or firm or actually go up and potash prices go down a tick then yes that premium will expand.
Okay.
Thank you.
The next question is from Christopher Perrella with Bloomberg.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thank you for taking my call.
Maybe I missed this earlier.
How much of product have you forward-sold into the second quarter at this point? Kelvin do you want to? Yes Christopher I mean we tend not to sell a whole bunch right now.
Weve positioned a lot of product for the demand for spring.
But I would say that the industry tends not to sell a whole bunch forward here and some of that is because we don't lead price.
So I guess we are in a position here where everybody will be doing a fill at some point for fall.
And I would say most retailers are in a position where they really want to be empty.
So it doesn't make sense for us to really drive to positioning tons right now.
Yes there is an opportunity in between that as farmers actually go out into the fields and put their crops in as they are doing right now there are geographic areas that will run low or run out of potash and need an immediate restocking.
And so given our geographic locations we have sort of that opportunity in between given our size and flexibility.
So that's a better opportunity for us financially than to really trying to focus on summer pricing.
I don't know if that makes sense of not but Okay.
So it's more of the second quarter is more about the taking - opportunistically taking advantage of the tons in the local market? Well exactly.
As farmers are planting aggressively there are certain geographic areas where they potentially run out.
If you look at our Texas market if you look at the markets slightly East Texas has clearly broken its drought.
But what's happening is in Texas is they've had quite a bit of ramp.
So the Texas market will kick in and it's very much a truck market.
The same thing with Western Oklahoma Southeastern parts of Kansas - Southwestern parts of Kansas.
So those truck markets - you just have great opportunities into and those are where you want to be patient and nimble and ready to go.
So those are markets that are the next in the phase.
All right.
And then shifting to the balance sheet quickly.
Is there cash level that you want to maintain at all cost with the volatility in the market? Is there a goal that you want to keep cash balances above X at this point of the market? It's good question.
Those are the type things that we continue to really evaluate.
Also evaluate the slight capital costs of bringing on significantly more langbeinite production that I talked about earlier in the prepared remarks the bolt-on projects in HB.
So as we navigate these kind of volatile waters were trying to establish what are those right cash numbers to keep on hand.
And as we've said all along as we continue to ramp up our solar production which is substantially lower cost you have a different ability to mitigate your risk by the cost structure of your production.
So the good news is that we're getting closer and closer to that nexus which allows us to give more clarity around cash in the bank and timing of return to shareholders.
So everything is going as planned if that makes sense.
Okay.
That's it for me.
Thank you.
The last question today comes from Andrew Wong with RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
So I just wanted to ask actually about Belarusian product coming into U.S.
And we've seen members of the US Senate and the House raising some concerns recently.
Do you guys expect any resolution from the government anytime soon and have you seen any reluctance from the dealers to take on some of those products? Well I guess what I can comment in terms of what we know is that the Treasury Department and the State Department are both investigating the importation of Belarusian tons.
And those things don't happen overnight.
So having learned more about sanction rules than I ever thought I would the reality is that the State Department and Treasury Department are investigating them.
How they articulate their conclusions is unknown to us.
I would imagine it's kind of like the IRS.
Once they decide to conduct an audit you don't know when or when that outcome may occur.
We do know that there are numerous members of the House and the Senate that were surprised by the importation of Belarusian potash given the existing sanctions.
So that's as much as we know.
And so were now following it as is kind of the rest of the fertilizer industry.
And then on the second part of the question reluctance - any reluctance by dealers? I think we've heard both comments.
We've heard both sides of that.
We've heard several comments that they are just going to stay away from it.
And then we've had - we've heard of situations where people have purchased it.
So I think there is little bit of both because it's a very grey area.
Okay.
That's fair.
And then just roughly on the Amax approval.
Could you just provide some more details on the government or community approvals and the timing around those? Well we've gone through BLM public scoping.
We have gone through NMED scoping and one round of public comment.
We've come through without any comments other than comments of support.
We are now in the - well the BLM has a certain different sets of phases within the EA and its working its way through the system.
Our expectation is somewhere towards the end of the summer early into the fall those permits should be approved.
So we're not seeing anything getting in the way of that.
But just progressing well and have their own life.
All right.
Thank You.
I want to thank everybody for taking the time to dial-in and we really appreciate your interest in Intrepid.
We look forward to speaking with everybody in the near future and thank you again for your interest.
This concludes todays conference call.
You may disconnect your lines.
Thank you for participating and have a pleasant day.
Thank you for standing by.
This is the Chorus Call conference operator.
Welcome to the Intrepid Potash Inc.
Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
As a reminder all participants are in a listen-only mode and the conference is being recorded.
After the presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
[Operator Instructions] At this time Id like to turn the conference over to Gary Kohn Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead Mr.
Kohn.
Thanks Brock.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our call today.
I will remind everyone that parts of our discussion will include forward-looking statements as defined by the U.S.
Securities Laws.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are based on a number of assumptions which we believe are reasonable.
These statements are based on the information available to us today and we are not assuming any obligation to update them.
You can find more information about risks and uncertainties to our future performance in our periodic reports filed with the SEC.
During todays call we will refer to certain non-GAAP financial and operational measures.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included in this mornings press release.
Our SEC filings and press releases are available on our website at intrepidpotash.com.
Presenting on the call today are Bob Jornayvaz our Co-founder Executive Chairman President and CEO; and Brian Frantz our Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer; and Kelvin Feist our Senior Vice President of Sales and Marketing will be available for our Q&amp;A.
With that Ill turn the call over to Bob.
Thank you Gary and good morning everyone.
Last year and into this year weve been focused on optimizing our very diverse set of assets.
Our solar assets Wendover Moab and our new HB are the most financially reliable best performing and highest cash flow per ton assets in our portfolio.
Our combined solar operations are cost competitive with the most potash mines worldwide.
Growing our solar capacity is a wonderful opportunity; weve capitalized on this opportunity utilizing our expertise we expect 36% of our total potash production in 2016 will be from solar evaporation up from 25% pre-HB in 2013.
Having more solar production will continue to benefit our company companywide potash cash cost - cash operating cost in the second half of this year and even more so for the full year of 2016.
The next step in sustaining and then potentially stepping up our solar production is accessing the Amax Horizon mine to exploit the remaining potash remaining after the mine closed in 1993.
As a reminder this mine is separate and distinct from our HB mine but ties into all the newly build HB infrastructure.
As an update just this month we obtained all required permits that allow us to begin injecting brine according to our time line.
In the first half of the year potash production was down 5% compared to the first half of 2014.
The lower production results were influenced by production challenges at our conventional facilities.
Our focus is on improving the up time across the conventional plants through a continued optimization.
We will continue to have some planned downtime as we perform upgrades in the third quarter.
At our West facility we continue to make upgrades that complement the improvements weve made previously in mining hoisting and equipping the mill for better variable ore processing.
In early July we began installing new crushing equipment that enhances recoveries are also increasing reliability.
We are ahead of schedule with this upgrade and is going well.
We also augmented our capabilities by modifying the new thickener system we recently completed installing.
We believe we are close to having all the final pieces in place in West and getting West fully optimized.
The East facility is our most expensive and complex Potash mill and requires our more intense focus.
We are investing to decouple the plant to create the ability to produce potash and Trio separately and with higher degrees of reliability.
In order to decouple the process and develop this optionality we are performing plant test to produce Trio independent from potash.
On the Trio side we are making advancements in converting standard and fine size material in the premium size Trio.
The improved conversion rates we have achieved for the past year set the stage for us to continue implementing more fine recovery innovations.
Concurrent with these efforts we are mining to access our untapped high-grade Trio reserves which are core hole drilling should be significant.
The work we are performing and investments we are making to grow Trio are predicated on the strong cash flow per ton that we earn on it.
The superior cash flow we generate from selling Trio is a result of the demand for specialty Potassium Magnesium and Sulfate fertilizers which has clearly separated itself from the MOP market.
Looking into the second half of the year it appears potash pricing has compressed from second quarter level but our perspective is for prices to remain in the tight range around current levels in the United States.
The market is competitive and the spread between pricing here and around the world has somewhat narrowed which we believe has substantial to soften imports into the United States.
We believe that we will continue to achieve a price premium to other North American producers as we have for more than a decade.
We also expect to see our potash cash operating cost coming down meaningfully from the second quarter level providing more cash flow per ton opportunity in the second half of this year and for 2016.
I have a clear vision of where Intrepid stands and what remains to be done to earn the desired returns and to create increased shareholder value.
Recognizing that there will be variability in production and cost as we continue to make modifications Intrepid will emerge a much better performing company from where we started several years ago.
Intrepid expects to extend its cash flow per ton opportunity by continuing to expand low cost solar solution production producing and selling more higher cash margin Trio tons and gaining even more efficiencies at our conventional potash facilities by increasing reliability.
We are not looking to make another sizable capital investment; rather we are perusing opportunities in bite size pieces.
We have prioritized for opportunities to pursue those with a highest margin potential in a thoughtful sequence building systematically on what we have already put into place.
Now Brian will update you on the financial results and the outlook.
Thanks Bob and good morning everyone.
Our second quarter adjusted EBITDA was $15 million and totaled $47 million for the first half of 2015.
This compares to $29 million and $45 million in the same period of 2014.
Our adjusted loss per share in the quarter was $0.08 and we earned adjusted net income per share of $0.01 in the first half of this year.
We recorded a lower cost to market adjustment in the second quarter of approximately $5 million compared to last years second quarter LCM of $1 million.
Lower production at our conventional facilities gave rise to elevated cost which relative to pricing resulting in LCM adjustments in the second quarter.
As we continue to work through the optimization efforts at West and East and with the expected price environment we expect to have additional LCM adjustments in the second half of the year.
We generated free cash flow of $36 million for the first six months of this year up from $11 million in the same point in 2014.
We had $124 million of cash and equivalence on hand as of June 30th.
We continue to expect to be cash flow positive for the full year and keep our balance sheet strong in light of current product prices.
Looking at Potash results we generated $103 per ton of cash flow in the second quarter and $123 a ton for the first six months.
Our average net realized sales price for the second quarter was $358 a ton which is down $4 from the first quarter but up $29 from where we were a year ago.
Potash sales volumes for the first six months were down compared to last year.
Agricultural sales were impacted by wet spring weather and light summer fill purchases as inventory levels of many customers were higher than expected as they exited the spring.
As anticipated sales volumes to our industrial customers in the oil and gas market reflect the decreased drilling activity.
Potash cash operating cost were $224 per ton in the quarter.
Costs were elevated not only due to lower production levels at our conventional facilities as Bob noted but also as a results of the timing of low cost solar production during the second quarter.
Harvesting at HB was completed earlier in the second quarter.
In comparison we harvested HB later in the second quarter last year.
We expect to reduce our cash operating cost by $27 a ton from the second quarter result to the midpoint of our second half outlook.
This improvement results from our expectation of harvesting more solar tons in the second half of this year and progressing towards additional efficiencies at our conventional mines.
We generated $161 of cash flow per ton for Trio in the second quarter an increase from the first quarter as well as year-over-year.
We achieved an average net realized sales price of $383 a ton which is $16 higher than the first quarter and $33 higher than last years second quarter.
Cash operating cost were $185 per ton in the second quarter.
The outlook for potash cash operating costs and total cost of goods sold is unchanged and we still see the fourth quarter as a lowest cash operating cost quarter of the year.
We have lowered our potash production range for the second half of this year to reflect the optimization work currently underway.
Weve widen the sales outlook for potash in the second half to allow for the timing of purchases related to the fall season.
Production and sales ranges for Trio in the second half have been lowered modestly to accommodate the enhancement at East that I just mentioned.
Trio cash operating cost and total cost of goods sold ranges have been modified slightly as well.
The range for cash paid for capital expenditures has been modified to include some additional Trio initiatives.
We still expect to pay very little cash taxes in 2015 and 2016.
On a long-term basis we expect our effective tax rate to be in the mid-30% range.
However for 2015 we expect an effective tax rate of around 60%.
This effective tax rate is really not that meaningful other than for modeling purposes.
Its driven by the estimated level of depletion deductions relative to the levels of taxable income.
Operator with that this concludes our prepared remarks and were ready to take some questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions].
Our first question today comes from Mark Connelly of CLSA.
Please go ahead.
Thank you just a couple of things.
Obviously over the last several years youve had big and small projects and the same Amax project is going to tie into HB I am just wondering whether youre anticipating meaningful operating disruptions whether we should be expecting big bumps in earnings as that tie in starts to happen? Mark this is Bob.
I think what youre going to see is that those are going to be very gradual on the solar solution side.
Tying those in shouldnt have any production disruptions at all on the solar side.
Its very different on the conventional side than it is on the solar side.
So as we tie those projects in there shouldnt be any disruptions.
Because you dont have to turn off the mill its just its a very different set of circumstances thats why were so excited about the bite size pieces that we can add on solar side.
Okay thats helpful.
And next question is you had warned us earlier that weather was going to shift the mix from conventional and solar and it did but it looks like we underestimated at least I underestimated the cost impact pretty significantly.
Can you tell us whether they were big impacts bigger than you expected or am I just doing a lousy job? No not at all.
I think the impacts that you really see are from the lost conventional tons and then the timing on the timing of when we harvest certain ponds at different facilities.
And so what weve really tried to stress over and over and over is to focus on an entire year as it relates to our solar system.
But we did have issues at the conventional mines.
Also we took certain parts of the mines down to as we are changing out the crushing system as we redesigned the thickener system at West so that it could be more sequential in how its operated and as weve done plant testing at East to try to run the Trio side independently from the potash side.
Okay thats helpful.
And just one last question Trio has obviously been a bright spot for you for the last years as you think about the expansion of production are we going to see bumps in the Trio side bigger than weve seen because we really havent seen many negatives there at all? I guess one of the points that we would like to make is that the entire specialty market or call Trio as specialty product if you look at SOP if you look at the keys are right thats come into the country if you look at our ability to sell Trio and the expanded geographic demand that we are seeing for Trio in all the potassium magnesium sulfate non-chloride markets you are seeing pretty significant market expansion new markets created and new demand.
And so thats we find exciting is that rather than the MOP market this other market has clearly bifurcated and separated itself out in a very distinct fashion.
Its a growing market its an under supplied market and its a very very difficult market to actually produce.
Ours is the only langbeinite deposit in Southeast New Mexico in the world.
If you look at the SOP production that exist around the world thats either manufactured and the cost structure is going up on SOP but theyve been able to maintain significant margins and so we see the same thing in our Trio pricing.
So its very indicative of a very under supplied market and its a geographically diverse market.
So I dont know if that answers your question or not.
No its really helpful.
Thank you very much.
The next question comes from Chris Parkinson of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Perfect thank you.
Can you just...
you kind of touch down this in your prepared remarks but can you just offer a little more color on the longer term targets balancing Trio versus conventional East? And then you mentioned some increases this year but can you just help us think about any potential incremental capital costs post 15 just anything there would be appreciated? I think we bumped up our capital range just a touch this year because weve been testing some new equipment that on all the rounds of test have worked.
So we went ahead and ordered sort of the up sized fine langbeinite recovery system thats being built thats been designed and built and being added on to in the third and fourth quarters of this year that will immediately begin to recover fine langbeinite that we are losing.
So it should have pretty significant immediate cash flow I just don't want to give you the numbers right now.
Weve said very consistently that as we make technological progress that we will inform you on our successes as it relates to the technological processes and then we will try to come in and fill in the blanks with what those numbers look like after weve achieved the technological success.
So we just dont want to get ahead of ourselves in giving you very specific guidance in terms of those numbers.
But the very meaningful rates of return on the investments that we will make around the langbeinite side.
Okay thats very helpful And they are well tested technologically.
Alright certainly fair.
And then also you mentioned in 1Q that you hadn't realized the full benefit of Mosaic or telling it MOP production at Carlsbad can you just comment on any of the regional trends that you saw evolve specifically throughout the second quarter in your key markets? I would say the one thing that is both good and bad is the extensive amount of rain and flooding that occurred in the State of Texas thats a great market for us.
And where we had been experiencing drought we experienced flooding in the months of May and June which I think delayed some of the consumption that were going to see in that very localized truck market.
So if you look at Eastern New Mexico the entire State of Texas Oklahoma Missouri we saw a very very wet spring.
So I think there is a lot of pent up customer demand there from what were seeing and talking to customers.
But its beginning to dry out and were seeing the benefits of that.
So when we came from drought to significant amounts of rain it happened right in the middle of the spring season.
So I guess thats the most color I can give is that we clearly believe that were going to pick up those opportunities but I hate to blame it on the weather but to some degree the weather does need to cooperate and we did see pretty extensive flooding throughout the entire State of Texas.
Perfect thank you.
The next question comes from Adam Samuelson of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning everyone.
Maybe just continuing the questions on East a little bit and Bob can you help us thinking about the timing of when a decision could be made to really push more towards Trio only at East if at all and I mean help us think through some of the - what are the milestones that you have to accomplish in the second half of this year or early 16 that would make you more comfortable and potentially making a decision? Well first I dont know that were really talking about Trio only in near-term what we're talking about is product optionality.
So building a bypass around as you know right now the Trio comes off the tails part or the back side of the potash plant.
So building a - right now were mining at a mixed ore body where we have areas that have very high grade langbeinite areas that would have high grade langbeinite and low grade sylvite in areas that have high grade sylvite and low grade langbeinite.
So were looking at ways to either campaign those products run them independently of each other so that when the plants are running theyre producing at optimum rates potentially independently of each other.
At the same time were mining down to our third and fourth ore zones which are untapped and very high grade pure no I wouldnt say pure but langbeinite only mineralogy.
So were doing a multitude of things to be able to run the plant with optionality first and we continue to make great strides on fine langbeinite recovery as I said earlier the bump in the CapEx range from 40 to 50 to 45 to 50 was for one very - well really two specific areas fine langbeinite recovery and then an ability for us to capture some immediate salt sales coming off our HB which will increase our byproduct credits there.
And weve got customers waiting for that extremely high quality salt that we produce off of HB.
And so two capital items which will generate cash flow virtually immediately.
Okay.
And how long does it take before you could reach those langbeinite ore zones? Id say 12 to 18 months.
Okay.
And then in the prepared remarks you alluded to some steps to get to a fully optimized cost structure at West can you help us think about what that West cost structure actually looks like it looks like when youve taken all the actions that you've done both this year and really the last few years.
Well Brian Ill let you answer that.
I mean the goal is to get it back where it was several years ago.
Adam I guess the way I would think about it is as weve talked about these conventional assets and the solar assets.
West has some significant opportunities as you also know that it produces a large chunk of our total production.
So as we put in some additional changes there late in the second quarter when we did our annual turnaround related to the thickener system that we have and some other the crushers that Bob referred to earlier.
Now as we ramp that up here in the second half of the year we should be able to see some significant reductions in our West cash cogs as we go forward which will then have a meaningful impact for the full year.
And part of the problem in the conventional facilities as Mark asked his question when you modify when you upgrade when you tie something and you have to take the plant down in its entirety stop the whole system to tie things in.
And so we took this opportunity in sort of the soft second quarter market to make as many of these changes as we could and I am not going to say on the fly but to get them in as much quick as we could.
Okay.
And if I could just squeeze one last quick one in account receivable dip down pretty significantly in the quarter any color on that I would guess maybe late quarter sales were lower and so you just collected on the nearly quarter sales and there was nothing to fill in that pipeline in June but any other color would be helpful? Yeah Adam this is Brian.
You hit it right on the head as that sales volume typically slows there in the quarter obviously receivables go with this.
So nothing out of the ordinary other than what you referenced.
Okay thats helpful.
Thanks.
The next question comes from Andrew Wong of RBC Capital Market.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys thanks for taking my question.
So the realized prices in the second quarter may held relatively steady on a sequential basis for the first quarter but we saw some weakness in the benchmark potash prices can you just talk about what helped the realized prices in the second quarter? And then maybe your prices expectations for the second half? Well I think one of the reasons is we sold forward a little bit more aggressively at the end of last year and into the first quarter.
We also had - we picked our spots where we sold into in terms of what weve seen in terms of summer fill program is it didnt appear I would say going into May the major Canadian producers were going to have a fill program and then one Canadian producer decided to introduce a fill program and then we saw another one follow soon.
I think to some degree the farmer is not engaged in the market right now.
So weve seen some pushing on a rope if you will.
We believe Intrepid's strategy is to be more patient.
We think that farmers are clearly going to farm in the fall and make their decision in the fall and there was a lot of noise around lets be honest there is more inventory in the system than there was last year at this time.
So trying to give you as much color as I can.
Weve had a very just I would say average summer fill program its definitely not robust but thats because we just dont have farmer engagement yet nor should we have.
Its just not the time of the year where farmers are interested in talking or buying their potash.
Kelvin I dont know if there is anything you would like to add that? Yeah maybe I'll just touch on the second half a little bit.
Retailer are layering in a little bit but compared to last year where they really stepped up if you remember last year they were concerned about transportation issues and making ensure they had their material I would say today theyre not concerned about a distribution shortfall some type.
So they are layering in some to get started to Bobs points there was additional inventory that they carried out of the spring season.
So theyre feeling more comfortable that way.
And so I think overall they are kind of taken a small position and waiting to see what the farmers are going to do.
Now as Bob suggested we believe the farmers can step up here at some points we know that theyve removed a lot of nutrient over last few years and that should drive them to put on the appropriate rates here this fall at some point.
So were comfortable with the demand side once it get started.
Okay great.
Thanks.
The next question is from Joel Jackson of BMO Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Just talked a little bit some of the competitors in the summer fill program maybe just elaborate weve seen Agrim [ph] start to ramp on there Sansquay [ph] extended mine and introduced still theres a lot of talk going on with about the Russians maybe just talk a little bit what youre seeing out of the Canadians out of Agrim out of other - whatever thats changed or any difference this year than another years? Thanks.
Well I think Joel you hit it on the head.
I think you accurately pointed out that there was one Canadian producer that came up early.
Overall its a competitive market right now.
We saw fill program introduced that just didnt get a lot of response.
So to us we described it as pushing on a rope right now when thats not Intrepid strategy.
I think the river has cleaned up a little bit.
But its still very competitive.
I dont know if I am answering your question or not I think in your question you described the situation well.
Okay thanks a lot.
Second question would be what you are talking about you are not necessarily going to go to Trio only production at East what would have to happen if you have a successful decoupling of the circuits should be able to do Trio and potash separately? What would have to happen for potash production to be stopped at East? Well clearly there would have to be a place where no longer generates positive cash flow.
But as long as our production at East our potash production has the ability to generate positive cash flow we are going to produce it and service those customers.
The product that comes out of our East is a great market for us in the feed and industrial markets as it currently exist.
But we have the ability to take our solar tons and to take some of those 60% tons and turn them into 62% tons at that HB mill.
So we built into the HB system the ability to upgrade those tons to continue to participate in those what have been those great markets those industrial and feed markets.
So we are just trying to create as much optionality as we can well always be mining in those areas.
So the ability to not necessarily run the potash circuit at East and produce significantly more Trio tons at any given period in time creates an optionality that we don't currently have when that plant goes down both sides of the production stream go down.
And the ability to - as I said earlier bring building that optionality I think its just going to make us much more reliable on both sides and as we get into a much higher ore grades on the langbeinite side it just allows us to produce significantly more it given the success were having in fine langbeinite recovery and polarization we are just very comfortable that thats the market where we should continue heading.
Thank you for that.
Our next question is from Neil Kumar of Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks for taking my question.
Can you talk a little bit about your industrial sales for the quarter and whether prices are pressured given the reduced drilling activity and how do you see industrial pricing shaping out for the remainder of the year? Potash pricing doesn't increase the rig count.
And so weve learned well that there is no reason to affect pricing on a product thats not going to stand up a rig.
So our pricing has remained pretty stable.
Our volumes are clearly down on the industrial side in the oil and gas side of our market but we havent seen any reason to take pricing down because its just not going to stimulate demand.
So weve seen very firm pricing on the industrial side but significantly reduced volumes.
So on the frac jobs that we are servicing and on the wells on the lower rig count that is operating.
Weve seen very little price erosion on the industrial side and we dont see any reason for us to take a hit when we are not going to stimulate demand or stand up a rig based on the price of potash.
Okay thanks.
Our next question comes from Sandy Klugman of Vertical Research Partners.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Could you guys get us on your thoughts regarding the timing of potential cash distributions to shareholders I know were obviously seeing a lot of volatility in the potash market but your balance sheet does remain very strong.
As I'm sure you do Sandy we watch the oil market the copper market corn and soybean markets strength in the dollar.
We continue to remain very aware of the worldwide market and the volatility in the commodity markets.
And so I think its prudent and appropriate to maintain a very strong balance sheet and to watch the world economy and the world commodity market.
And so we talk about it every day we look at it every day.
I think that we continue to get more clarity on what the worldwide markets look like and pricing stability we can bring that back to the forefront where we had it in the fourth quarter of last year before we saw the collapse in the commodity market and pricing.
So I think were going to continue to be extremely prudent and make sure that we can run this company with significant liquidity and fulfill all of our obligations on a timely basis and run the company in the most prudent fashion that we can.
I think thats fair.
If I can shift to another question if you could offer your thoughts on the companys use on potential consolidation in the Potash industry? If you have any thoughts as to how would impacts the broader industry in the Intrepid in general more specifically I would be interested in hearing those.
There is obviously were all well aware of the Potash Corp and [indiscernible] and we dont have any insight on that and really not in a position to offer an opinion.
I guess if you have a very specific question I'm happy to try to answer it I think to the degree we see some consolidation I think it will be beneficial for the industry but if you got a more specific question I'm happy to answer it.
No I think it was just more general thoughts my view is that greater consolidation a lot of those benefits would accrue to smaller producers such as Intrepid I was just curious to see if that rational ran through the company? No we think consolidation is a good thing and we'll watch from the sidelines to see what happens.
So really just dont have more color or opinion that Ill offer you right now.
Okay thank you very much.
The next question comes from Don Carson of Susquehanna Financial.
Please go ahead.
Hey Bob I want to go back to a previous comment where you thought the second half pricing would remain at current level by that do you mean sort of the summer fill levels were seeing is kind of $345 $355 a sure ton corn build by your competitors or youre talking more about what your second quarter pricing was? No were talking about current levels that weve seen.
We try to be clear that we had seen erosions in the ag markets sort of post second quarter going into the Southwest fertilizer.
And so those are the levels that I was referring to.
Okay.
And we're seeing unlike last year when product was tight we're seeing a lot more price protection by some of your Canadian producers are you having to respond by doing more contingency sales or kind of forward price guaranteed sales can you comment on that? Weve more chosen to stay out of the market and not participate in very many if many of those arrangements that's not our style of marketing.
And so you're right it exists.
Kelvin if you like to give some color around that.
Yeah Don I think the only comment that I would make there is that there is lots of people asking for various things.
We feel like we're getting very close to 4 or out of floor in the market on these prices.
So the need for one of those types of tools is limited right now in our view.
I think that the key here is seeing some demand at the farm gate and all the way through the retail and that will really drive the market forward in terms of the demand side.
So I guess thats our view in general and I guess our view is with regard to price protection is if we don't have to do it we won't.
Okay.
And Kelvin just a follow-up.
What was your view in terms of industry Potash consumption for the fertilizer year ended June 30th I mean you commented clearly that wet weather reduced the volumes but just wondering how significant industry factor it was? Yeah I guess we don't have all the data in just yet but I guess our sense is we were impacted specifically in Texas as Bob mentioned.
And I would say to some degree in Missouri because of the very wet weather that we saw there as well.
Other producers were probably impacted by the Eastern corn belt in different areas than we were because we participate less there.
The reality as we know that retailers are coming out of the spring with more inventory.
So that tells us the demand that the farm gate was somewhat lower.
But I dont have a specific number if it was at 15% what was the number; I guess I don't have that just yet.
Alright okay.
And Bob I was going to ask for a prediction you've Wendover have to cancel speedway for two years in a row now.
So when is the rain going to let up? It's not so much...
I wouldn't say that was really about the rain.
And so if you dive a little deeper but I dont know I guess if we could do that the politics the racers on.
Okay.
We can go offline on that then.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Your next question is from Brett Wong of Piper Jaffray.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks guys thanks for taking my question I appreciate it.
I know you mentioned some factors in the prepared remarks that would help some core pricing at current levels as you look into the back half of the year.
But with higher inventories exiting the spring and soft demand can you talk to that expectation in more detail and why we wont additional pricing decline? We've already seen decline from second quarter to - I'll just call it that period from the end of June to the Southwest fertilizer conference that is occurred.
And so I think once we do feel was the farming community in the vast amount of farmers that we talk to that we are going to see relatively firm demand in the fall.
The global markets are still very significant; we had a tremendous amount of nutrients moved from the soil.
So we're not seeing any decrease in what we call application rates this could be a much more function of acres.
Kelvin do you want to add some additional color? Yeah I think just with regard to global markets and how the U.S.
played.
It's so much flatter world today in terms of the premium that we used to get in the U.S.
So I feel like that we are in a pretty good position.
I don't know if we'll less imports or not.
But the reality is there is less of a premium here.
So maybe slightly less attractive relative other markets around the world.
Okay thanks.
And on the aspect of strong demand in the fall obviously weve watched grain prices here move lower recently after that short rally at the end of June.
Any expectations as we see grain pricing in current levels that as we entered harvest what that will do for fall application? Once again we've got tremendous access to the farming community.
Like I'm sure all of you all do and we hear diverse stories.
We believe that a good chunk of the 15 corn is being crop got hedged.
We feel like they had great - they had two very strong opportunities two rallies throughout to go in and hedge at higher prices.
I mean there is a dollar difference between soybeans a week ago and today and we had record trading in terms of soybean and corn contracts.
And so all of our contacts suggest that lot of farmers that sophisticated enough took advantage to lock-in some pricing.
We did see a probably a higher hedging going into the 16 crop than we would normally see.
I don't know that it's that significant as a percentage of the crop but it's definitely a much higher percentage of farmers that went ahead and began to hedge into 16 than what historically we hear from farmers at this point in time.
So we have every indication.
I don't think I used the word strong demand I think I used the word firm we would differentiate in that just a steady.
We just don't see our markets being that detrimentally affected in terms of farmer demand.
We see it being firm and rational we don't see it - I would not describe it as being strong and robust.
So Kelvin anything more you want to...
Just maybe the last thing is traditionally the farmers can get their harvest off.
They would love to break up the busy spring season.
So they have an ability to do that and they are comfortable that the price of fertilizer is attractive to them and we think it is on a number of different nutrients today.
They would go ahead and apply this fall and breakup some of that work load.
So we are expecting that in the areas that have a good crop coming we expect that they will do that and we're well positioned to supply their needs in those markets.
That's very helpful guys thanks for the color.
The next question is from Steve Burn of BAML.
Please go ahead.
Hi Bob I was wondering if there's new Trio milling process that separate from MOP would enable you to work through historical tailings that might have recoverable levels of Trio that have been sitting out there for long time is there an opportunity there to mine that? No there really isnt I wish there were but there is not and I just want to be clear that its not really a new milling process; its the ability to bypass the potash plants.
In other words we take our existing lang plant as we come up from underground its our ability to bypass the potash plant and take higher grade lang product and take it straight to the lang plant.
We've made modification to the existing plants I don't want to give the impression that we built a new langbeinite mill but we have made significant improvements over the last couple of quarters.
So I want to be clear on that but in terms of our ability to mine the langbeinite tails we haven't figured that one out yet.
So we're certainly open to ideas on that if you got some.
Okay thank you.
There are no further questions at this time.
I'll now hand the call back over to Bob Jornayvaz for closing comments.
I want to thank everybody for taking the time to dial-in and we really appreciate your interest in Intrepid.
We look forward to speaking with everybody in the near future.
And thank you again for your interest.
This concludes todays conference call.
You may disconnect your lines.
Thank you for participating and have a pleasant day.
Thank you for standing by.
This is the Chorus Call conference operator.
Welcome to the Intrepid Potash Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
As a reminder all participants are in a listen-only mode and the conference is being recorded.
After the presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
[Operator Instructions] At this time Id like to turn the conference over to Gary Kohn Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead Mr.
Kohn.
Thanks Thomas.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our call today.
I will remind you the parts of our discussion will include forward-looking statements as defined by the U.S.
Securities Laws.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are based on a number of assumptions which we believe are reasonable.
These statements are based on the information available to us today and we are not assuming any obligation to update them.
You can find more information about risks and uncertainties to our future performance in our periodic reports filed with the SEC.
During todays call we will refer to certain non-GAAP financial and operational measures.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included in this mornings press release.
Our SEC filings and press releases are available on our website at intrepidpotash.com.
Presenting on the call today are Bob Jornayvaz our Co-founder Executive Chairman President and CEO; and Brian Frantz Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer.
Kelvin Feist our Senior Vice President of Sales and Marketing is also available for Q&amp;A.
With that Ill turn the call over to Bob.
Thank you Gary and good morning everybody.
We clearly had some challenges in the third quarter.
The agricultural market remained soft which impacted potash and Trio movement and was felt in pricing and demand.
We believe in the longer term demand fundamentals of the potash market and continue to see our Trio opportunity is compelling.
Over the years we have been successful in selling our potash at a premium to other North American producers and we believe this will be the case again this quarter.
Part of this advantage is attributed to our ability to serve premium niche market opportunities.
We planned to continue to supply a mix of potash products and grades.
We understand the challenges in front of us and we have a clear plan forward for Intrepid.
The plan is consistent with our previously articulated strategy.
We are working towards converting our East facility into a Trio-only plant.
This is a central to both lowering our potash operating costs and increasing our ability to sell more Trio in the future.
Converting East has the potential to meaningfully expand our cash flow generation as we will stop producing potash at our most expensive plant while creating the opportunity to replace those high cost tons with Trio tons.
Also in concert with conversion we are developing plants to utilize our low cost solar solution HB operation to make the specialty potash products currently produced at East that our industrial and feed customers rely upon.
Trio is a unique product that only two companies produced and there is just a single commercial deposit in the world.
Our strategy will allow us to be cost competitive as we serve the market demand for Trio that we believe is larger than the supply of the two producers.
The market demand for low-chloride sulfate and/or magnesium-based potash fertilizers has grown significantly more than the MOP market.
Intrepid has marketed Trio by demonstrating its economic value as specialty fertilizer.
This success is evidence by Trio pricing that has been decoupled from potash for several years now.
Our marketing and sales strategy for Trio is to continue to grow the market while selling into the current robust demand in both the domestic and international market.
The transition is underway and we have been designing and installing equipment at East while also running bypass and pilot plant test this years detailed on our second quarter call.
We have gathered in cycle plant performance data from the eight days of test we have run so far this year and the data we have generated and the improvements we have made with each successive test including numerous laboratory pilot test support our expectation that we will have the ability to complete to switch to Trio-only production in the second half of next year.
Fortunately a portion of Trio growth we are planning on comes from accessing high-grade previously untapped line-only ore reserves as well as significant higher-grade Trio panels in current mixed ore body which were left behind because the grade was too high to run through the combined East plant.
Importantly accessing the previously untapped ore zones is not capital intensive.
We're continuing to drill core holes to delineate the high-grade ore body available to us as we mine direct to access this zone in time to the conversion.
Following conversion we anticipate increasing Trio production sequentially quarter-by-quarter such that well replace each potash ton at East with a ton of Trio.
Ultimately we believe we can grow our Trio production even further.
We foresee long-term more cash flow and EBITDA from the East plant in the transform state compared to the joint process of today.
Cash flow and EBITDA however will be compressed during the next several months of transition.
The entire transition has and will continue to happen through a series of well-designed and well-timed investments.
The expected benefits of converting East begin with lowering companywide potash operating cost as East accounts for nearly 200 000 annual tons or around 2% -- 20% of our annual potash production.
These East potash tons are by far are most costly to produce so by removing them from our mix we would expect to lower our companywide per ton cash operating costs for potash meaningfully.
Seizing this production we will also check about 2% to 3% of U.S.
annual potash consumption out of the market.
We also expect to benefit from the simplification of the East process stream.
By producing Trio-only we bypassed numerous circuits pieces of equipment and operating steps.
Most notably we will no longer need to run the expensive natural gas fed boilers crystallizers and hot thickeners used in East potash production process.
These components have added tremendous operating and maintenance costs over the years and account for much of the downtime and recovery issues we had suffered.
In the future single mineral operation our underground mining will be much simpler.
We will no longer have to manage through the complex process of maximizing both potash and Trio mill feed from a mixed ore body.
And finally our load-up and warehousing at East will be simplified by handling fewer products.
Throughout the transition we seek to maintain our ability to serve the premium specialty white potash product markets that we currently serve with East.
Encouragingly our previous operating experience and specific testing has validated our capability to produce these products at our lower cost HB operation.
Simply put our goal is to change Intrepids cash flow and EBITDA profile.
The steps to accomplish this are to eliminate the high cost potash production at East replace it with additional Trio output and to build on our specialty potash production utilizing HB.
As Ive said we understand the challenges and importantly the pathway to increase returns.
We are working hard on improving what we believe the temporary elevated cost and production interruptions at West.
We have accelerated the East transition plan.
So we should be able to convert Trio only in the second half of next year.
Once the conversion has occurred we will have moved to our highest cost potash production and should have the ability to grow Trio output over time.
We will continue with our plans to grow our lower-cost solar production long term and we have expanded our cost saving and production efficiency initiatives by engaging well-known professional consultants.
We remain focused on and understand that a strong balance sheet is essential in today's environment.
With that I'll turn the call over to Brian.
Thanks Bob and good morning everyone.
In the third quarter our adjusted net loss was $4 million or $0.06 a share.
Our adjusted EBITDA for the third quarter was $6 million making the total for the first nine months of 2015 about $53 million.
The year-over-year decreases in our profitability were driven mostly by lower pricing and sales volume for potash.
During the first nine months of this year we generated $44 million of cash flow from operations and have paid $37 million of cash for capital expenditures so our free cash flow through September 30th is about $7 million.
Our inventory levels increased during the third quarter as the fall application season was slow to develop.
We anticipate a healthy spring application season which would provide us the opportunity to reduce our inventory levels and increase our cash flow from operation.
Our ability to stay free cash flow positive this year depends on pricing and sales volume in the fourth quarter.
We still anticipate our 2015 capital expenditures to be approximately $45 million to $55 million.
As of September 30th we had $94 million of cash and equivalents on hand and we have $187 million available to us under our credit facility.
Availability under our credit facility is a function of our financial covenants.
We're in compliance with our financial covenants of both our credit facility and our senior notes as of September 30th but we may not be able to maintain compliance with our fixed charge ratio in mid 2016.
Were proactively working on plans and options to work with our financial partners to avoid any issues.
We remain focused on and understand that our strong balance sheet was essential in today's environment.
In the third quarter results there are two items of note that Id like to highlight.
First a lower cost to market adjustment of around $4 million was recorded during the quarter resulting from the lower pricing environment were currently experiencing.
Secondly $7 million of cost related to abnormal production were recorded.
These abnormal cost stem from the 15-day shutdown at West while we remedied maintenance issues with the ore hoisting shaft and from the seven days of Trio-only testing that occurred during the quarter at East.
These temporary shutdowns resulted in below normal potash production rates.
As we do not produce potash during these shutdowns we had no production to which we could allocate cost which result in the abnormal production charge.
It's important to note that the LCM cost and abnormal production costs are excluded from our cost of goods sold.
Looking at potash results our average net realized sales price was $319 in the third quarter which is down $22 a ton from a year ago and $39 from the second quarter of this year.
We anticipate continued pressure on potash pricing in the fourth quarter as well.
We sold 120 000 tons of potash in the quarter and 498 000 tons through September 30th.
Sales volume is below last year's levels with softness in our agricultural and industrial markets.
Pricing and sales to agricultural customers have been impacted by more aggressive importers into the U.S.
and by the amount of inventory on hand at North America.
Farmers have also been delaying purchases until their harvests are complete where yields are calculated and their financial picture for the year is understood.
Excluding the LCM and the abnormal cost I noted earlier potash cash operating costs were $198 per ton in the quarter and $206 a ton through the first nine months.
We increased our solar production year-over-year as HB has completed its production ramp up.
We anticipate our cash operating cost to trend down sequentially for the fourth quarter from third quarter levels.
We expect to have additional LCMs and abnormal costs in the fourth quarter given anticipated potash pricing levels extended shaft maintenance work at West and continued Trio-only testing at East as we progress on our transition.
For Trio we delivered cash flow per ton for the third quarter and year-to-date of $100 and $144 per ton respectively.
The per ton cash flow was driven by average realized sales price of $379 which was $28 a ton higher than last years third quarter.
Pricing was down $4 a ton from the second quarter level and given recent price pressure in the low-chloride potassium market we expect lower pricing in the fourth quarter of 2015.
Cash operating costs were $239 per ton for the quarter and $195 for the nine-month period.
Costs were elevated in part from the testing runs at East and the increased production of premium size product.
As we look to the remainder of 2015 weve lowered our guidance relative to potash sales volumes as the fall application season has continued to be deferred.
While were beginning to see potash move to the field as harvest progresses we remain cautious given the lateness of the season.
As we continue to our transition of East to a Trio-only facility there are couple of financial impacts in guidance Id like to highlight.
First as Bob mentioned earlier once the facility is fully transitioned our potash cost of good sold will decrease as we remove our highest cost production tons from our production mix.
However in the short-term while some of these potash assets at East will be used following that transition we have shortened the remaining estimate that lies for the assets we don't expect to utilize post transition.
As such our depreciation charges for those assets will increase.
We've increased our guidance range for non-cash depreciation charges reflecting this change in estimated lives.
As these assets are used for potash production total potash cost of goods sold will increase during this transition period.
And given our current price environment our LCM's will increase as well.
It's important to note that our potash cash cost of good sold is not impacted by these change in estimates.
Operator with that it concludes our prepared remarks.
Were ready to take some questions.
[Operator Instructions] First question comes from Mark Connelly of CLSA.
Please go ahead Mark.
Thank you.
Bob two questions first on East how much operational risk is there in this Trio conversion? I am just wondering whether this project carries any other risks that we saw with LRIP in terms of how long it takes to get where you are planning to go? The first part is I think there is always operational risks.
But I think weve substantially reduced it given the plant tests that weve run.
LRIP was built on running laboratory tests and then trying to scale up all of the equipment rather than actual -- having a plan to run.
We've invested the time and capital to run these by-pass tests.
So we run the equipment at the right size at the right rates so that we know what potential problems we face.
With each successive test weve tested the problems and the opportunities and we've seen excellent results.
So we think our ability to execute on this is quite high given the investment that we've made to run plant test versus lab tests that then need to be scaled up.
There is a huge difference.
Sure.
Very helpful.
And just one more question.
Obviously with East and West youve got operational issues but can you talk about some of the mines that you didn't talk about and what's happening there and whats your feeling is for the fourth quarter? Well the great news about Wendover Moab and HB is they are running extremely well.
They are all running at or above budget.
HB continues to run at greater than a 95% availability rate.
So the reason we didnt talk about him is quite frankly they are running extremely well.
So I'll leave it at that.
Very good.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Adam Samuelson of Goldman Sachs.
Go ahead Adam.
Yeah.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
First on Trio and East.
Bob any color you can provide on the standalone cost structure for Trio once the conversion is fully complete.
And along those lines I want to make sure I understand what you are talking about capacity.
East is producing about 200 000 tons of MOP today.
So is the plan that you can get East Trio production close to 400 000 tons once this conversion is fully complete? That's correct.
And our goal is to provide pretty detailed cost guidance in our next earnings call.
Weve run numerous tests and weve got some more tests to run in November and December so that we can come up with some cost guidance that we can rely upon.
But we know thats going to be substantially cheaper than our potash costs.
So we are very -- we are just convinced that its the absolute right thing to do.
Plus we could have such.
The great part is having the higher ore grades that we have the opportunity to access.
Because when you're processing higher ore grades through a much much simpler process I just can't describe we are going from one of the most complex mineralogical complex processing plants in the world which is why its one of the highest cost plants in the world to a very basic plant operation that is much more similar to the other plans that we run.
So reducing the complexity gives us an opportunity to greatly reduce the cost.
Okay.
And I guess on that point can you talk about where you think the price elasticity for Trio is and the confidence that you have in actually placing those incremental tons? When you look at the second half this year your production can only be 7 500 tons lower than what you thought at the end of July.
But your sales are going to be down 22 000 tons so and your price going with that $4 sequentially.
So Im just trying to think about if you try to put 2 000 more tons of Trio into the market whats that going to do to price? You can see in the second half when -- yes the markets are bad but you havent been able to sell the tons that you have today.
Well I think all products across the agricultural mix are seeing the same kind of lack of demand slow movement et cetera.
I think the entire agricultural market.
I hate to use the word chaotic but its definitely in a disrupted state in the third and fourth quarters.
We are just not seeing normalized behavior.
And when we talk to our Trio distributors the geography that we intend to market into our biggest problems has been reliability of the marketing Trio.
So we've had several people that over the years have wanted it but because of our unreliability of supply -- the small supply it's been difficult to move it into geographies that wanted.
So our confidence level is very high as we look at it and the fact that there's only two producers of this product and they are both dollar-based producers and they are both producing out of the same basic ore body.
We are going into high grade untapped ore zones whereas the other producer has had declining ore grades for years now.
So I think it's the right time.
I think the conversion makes a lot of sense both from a cost standpoint and from how we see the broader market.
So I would agree that this quarter and these two quarters were anomalous but they are anomalous for just about every segment of the agricultural industry.
Okay.
And I guess maybe as a quick last one.
On the potash guidance it looks like at midpoint you are guiding that you are going to be building your potash inventories about 65 000 tons in the fourth quarter which would be the single biggest quarterly inventory build than last five years or so.
Can you talk about kind of how your confidence and your storage capacity both on-site and in market to handle those tons especially after the inventory build that you saw in the third quarter? Yeah.
Weve got plenty of room plenty of storage for both on-site and off-site.
Storing it certainly isnt a problem.
And so we try to be extremely conservative in how we've described all the potential pitfalls.
So storing is just not an issue.
All right.
Great.
Thanks.
I will pass it on.
The next question comes from Chris Parkinson of Credit Suisse.
Go ahead Chris.
Perfect.
Thank you.
Assuming you are 100% to Trio at East how should we think about your key potash markets going forward? Is there enough demand in the local markets such as west Texas and areas close proximity to West that you dont need to ship extensive distances? Im just trying to parse out the effects of everything thats happened in local industrial demand to get a better hold of your future transportation costs markets et cetera? Are you asking about Trio or for the specialty industrial white products? For the remainder potash production from West so not East? Well West produces a red granular that primarily goes into the agricultural markets that we continue to serve and serve well and weve got a good strong truck market and rail market for those tons.
And the beauty is we will now be able to produce the same industrial and feed products that we are producing at East over HB at a much lower cost.
So Im still not understanding your question.
Its fine.
I can follow-up on that.
And just very quickly you mentioned some deferral in the U.S.
fall vacation season was that exclusive to a key U.S.
region or across the board because some of the nitrogen producers have indicated that its just started picking up during the last few weeks? Well there is no question its picked up in the last 10 days to two weeks pretty significantly but it's just been a different quarter than it has been historically.
So were seeing darn good movement over the last week 10 days I would agree with that but I would say that overall the quarter was just different was very anomalous.
Perfect.
Thank you very much for the color.
The next question comes from Andrew Wong of RBC Capital Markets.
Go ahead Andrew.
Hey thanks for taking my questions.
In the previous conference call I think you stated the plan at Carlsbad East was to continue potash production until the potash tons no longer generates positive cash flow.
So is that the case today or is that what you expect in the future or is there like some other reason that you just decided to accelerate the plan at Carlsbad East? The economics are pretty compelling.
I think that we would be remiss if we didn't see the volatility that were seeing in the potash market and go ahead and take proactive steps for what we think is a more compelling opportunity to generate more cash flow and higher margins.
And so given the plan that weve developed in our ability to transition we believe its a much better economic decision.
I think we would still have the opportunity to produce potash but we think it's a much more compelling investment opportunity to make the conversion.
Okay.
And then just switching over to the covenants the fixed charge coverage ratio could you just tell us what the ratio is currently and what the sensitivity is to potash prices and volumes? Yeah I will let Brian answer that.
Andrew this is Brian.
We continue -- were in compliance with that right now.
Were very comfortable that were going to remain in compliance with that.
Its the issue in the middle part of 2016.
And then as we see the increased cash flow and EBITDA start to come in from the East facility we would expect to bring ourselves back into compliance late in '16 and into '17 is kind of what were looking at right now.
Andrew there are several components of that charge.
And so we have a lot of levers we feel we have a lot of levers to pull to work our way through that but we felt that it was prudent to let people know that there's that possibility out there.
Okay.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Don Carson of Susquehanna Financial.
Please go ahead Don.
Yes I want to go back to the last few weeks and fall demand I mean were hearing that there has been a pretty good response to the year-over-year price decline and yet you seem a little more cautious.
Can you comment on the behavior of some of your Canadian competitors or are you losing market share because they're getting more aggressive and trying to place some of their additional volumes? Kelvin do you want to Sure Don.
I will take some of these on.
I guess I would say that initially we saw a very slow response some of that being the inventory that they got in place and then some of that being the price declines that weve all witnessed in the potash business.
So no one wanted to jump in the market as were seeing the market values decrease.
I would say that in general we havent seen anything significant in terms of market share.
We still have a similar distribution system.
Were supplying a number of warehouses which we will continue to supply.
So essentially we're just seeing a slow development of the market because of those other things that I had mentioned.
So thats our view today.
And I guess what were seeing is some pretty good crops coming off in various areas.
So we think there's decent amount of nutrient removal and that should bode well for longer-term potash demand.
And a clarification on your price comment you talked about lower pricing in Q4 is that just an average to average comparison do you see prices stabilizing where they are now and sort of the 315 corn belt region? I would say yes.
I guess what were seeing is continued price pressure from a number of different avenues both up the River Canadians etcetera.
So I think were now getting into application season so we should see that stabilizing here in the very near future as we speak.
And so were -- I would say were getting very near floor but not out of floor today.
Okay.
Then final question.
What happened to your efforts to restrict Belarus imports do you ever get any satisfaction out of Congress because they seem to have brought some more loads in recently? Were definitely still working on it.
I guess I would say stay tuned.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Vincent Andrews of Morgan Stanley.
Go ahead Vincent.
This is Neel Kumar calling in for Vincent.
So I just had a couple quick questions.
First you mentioned obviously a pressure on potash pricing in the fourth quarter.
I was just wondering whats your outlook on fuel pricing how you the pricing premium continue to shape out for 4Q? And then also for 2016 is there any additional CapEx need as you make the switch to Trio-only production at East facility? Fortunately the CapEx is pretty minimal and its built into our guidance.
It really is minimal thats why the conversion opportunity is so compelling.
I mean were talking about less than $10 million and some of which of that has already been spent.
So from a capital standpoint it's extremely compelling to make conversion in the ore grades that we can initially start producing at that we believe we can after the transition easily exceed our current production rates.
Im sorry what was the second part of your question? I was just asking about your Trio pricing outlook for 4Q because you mentioned the weakness in potash pricing? Yeah we dont see a lot more erosion in Trio pricing.
What we saw at the very end of the second quarter and throughout the third quarter was a market where we had lots of importers pushing on the rope if you will.
And so they didnt increase demand at a time when they just kept pushing on a rope and that funnel itself through I think all the agricultural markets.
And so in the last 10 days to two weeks we've seen good solid movement good solid demand but two weeks doesnt make a quarter.
And so we like what were seeing in the very short-term but were trying to be cautious as to how we describe how the third quarter was and looking for through the fourth.
Great.
Thanks.
The next question comes from Joel Jackson of BMO Capital Markets.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Just following it up on Trio can you maybe elaborate on some of the geographies maybe end crop applications that you see can push next year couple hundred thousand tons of Trio over the next couple of years? Well I would say into the markets that we are currently serving where were not -- generally we havent been keeping up with the order book that weve had.
So I would say that there is increased tonnage opportunities in our existing markets.
In terms of giving you specific geographies as to where were going to push other tons were just really not interested in sharing that with our competitor as to where were going with it but were confident that we have that ability across United States.
And then theres international markets that we have just flat stayed out of where we have some good opportunities.
Kelvin I dont know if you want to add any color to that? Joel maybe Ill just add we did -- I think being a consistent supplier is important because when you can always be there for your retailer or dealer theyll grow your that market and we believe that there is lots of opportunity in just growing the markets with our existing customer.
I think if you look at the deficiency maps specifically magnesium you will see thats growing as well.
So we believe there is a lot of upside to that as a result of some of the deficiencies that have developed across the Eastern seaboard and throughout North America.
Okay.
And next on Amax I mean is that project should we say its on hold now or is there any reason why you would could see you with that project and seeing what you see right now? Well I think the first thing is to finish up with our bankers and make sure that we have our credit facilities and financial house well in order which we perceive we can accomplish.
So thats number one is to get that situated properly so that we can put back together our capital budget and move forward on the projects that generate the most return.
So I would say it's on hold for very temporary basis because those are pretty compelling low-cost tons.
Okay.
And then what I would like to get a sense of is as we get into 2017 start doing a better run rate of more Trio and less potash east no potash at East.
I mean what is sort of the cost we could see could we see run rate $20 a ton lowering cash costs as you coupled the depreciation but jut on the cash cost could we see the same thing with Trio? Maybe you can just give us a sense little more granularity.
No we are going to just tell you its economically compelling and well have some guidance for you that you can rely upon in the near future.
So when you give your guidance in three months will you give just '16 or you give '17 as well? Joel this is Brian.
What we have traditionally done is when we put out our fourth quarter earnings report well have our guidance that will be in there for 2016.
In the past weve not guided more than one year from that and well try to provide color to the extent we can.
But look for that information to come out from us in mid February.
The reason why Im saying is because judiciously you correctly raised the issue of potentially being having some covenant problems.
So if investors really want to mold you out and see all the changes youre making youve seen the positive impact and that you wont have any covenant problems.
That would be a very helpful.
I totally agree its a difficult time to model we recognize that.
We felt it was much more important to be able to articulate the conversion strategy both for our customers for our investors for our employees so that we can begin building some timelines around that and we thought it was extremely important is thats the decision that weve made to get that out there.
So I think that was the first step we've made it and we believe it's very compelling.
Okay.
My final question would be just on West? So if the trends of lower potash prices continued here at what point would you be thinking about shutting down production at West or is that nowhere -- we nowhere near that? I think we are a long way from that given the recent run rates that weve had had we not have the shaft incident.
We are running at historic recovery rates and so I feel very comfortable that that's just not going to be an issue at West.
So I think have we not have that shaft issue we would be showing you some pretty numbers that we would be proud of.
Thank you very much.
The next question comes from Ben Isaacson of Scotia Capital.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
This is Carl Chen stepping in for Ben.
Thank you for taking my question.
So Bob other than the East facility are there any more potential cost cutting opportunities that Intrepid could tap into and if so what's the magnitude of this cost saving? Its a great question.
Weve had an internal cost savings program within Intrepid that's internally based that we've identified several million dollars that we begun to execute on and we hired an outside cost consulting firm professional firm to come in and they start work next week or we feel like we have significantly more dollars to save as well.
So we serious about rolling up our slaves and taking it several steps further down the line where we already are in terms of cost cutting.
Great.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Sandy Klugman of Vertical Research Partners.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
Good morning.
So somebody could comment on what your perception is of where we stand in terms of average soil potassium rates across the U.S.
And then you mentioned that you expect the healthy spring demand? Could delve into whats driving that expectation is it a function of weaker fall just translating into a better spring which is a normalization of ag environment? Well first and foremost we removed the tremendous amount of nutrients from the crops that we are harvesting today.
I mean if you look at the yields and the acres and the nutrients that are being removed.
Just do the math and you see what is necessary to plant crops and once we get a better acreage figures around the spring whatever those acres are they are going to require a significant amount of balanced fertilization.
Kelvin do you want to give some color to that? Yeah.
I think if you think about the trends we are seeing sliding potassium levels in the soil for a number of years now.
So I think that everyone knows with the removing and they recognize that in order to grow the crop they need to replenish.
So we feel like thats a long-term trend that this is in our favor.
I think with regard to weaker fall stronger spring.
I guess weve been witnessing a decreasing price environment and thats probably scared some folks off because they dont want to pay too much for the potash or in their eyes pay too much for the potash.
So I think thats pushed back the demand at the farm gate today and so I believe there is some folk the smaller farmer maybe that might be able to move a fall application to spring application instead of doing it all this in the next month and a half.
So I guess we will see how it develops.
But we believe that there are some markets that are going to go pretty strong this fall and are already and the remainder will go in the spring.
But we don't believe that theyre going to cut significantly and I think theyre going to try and optimize their yields in 2016.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
And then as a follow-up how do you think about long-term supply additions given the current market dynamics? Is there an offset to the weaker environment in the sense that perhaps we see less capacity coming on line over the long-term? Well the potash market has been -- has had overcapacity for many decades.
And that overcapacity in the last couple years has turned into oversupply which hasnt always happened.
So I cant really -- I think thats a better question for some of the much larger producers in terms of how they see their existing capacity and to what degree they choose to produce to the extent that we are oversupplied.
So I just dont think were the right guys to ask about that oversupply situation.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Brett Wong of Piper Jaffray.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Thanks for taking my questions.
So just wondering you can provide a little more color around the timing of when you expect HB tons and potash to help offset the decline in the East tons once you make the final conversion.
Well I dont see HB making up ton for ton.
I think that its just -- it can supply those markets if that make sense.
Right now it's got the ability because of the way the plant was built and the nature of the facility to provide those specialty higher priced industrial and feed products.
We expect replacing potash tons with Trio tons at East.
So I dont know if Im answering your question or not.
But the markets that the East production served we now have the ability to serve them from East I mean from HB.
So we see it as a seamless transaction and transition in terms of being able to service those customers in the industrial and feed markets.
That makes sense.
But you can ramp HB though is that correct? I mean I guess the follow-up question to that would be what kind of capacity do you still have in HB with the current investments that you have in place and what other investments will be needed to continue to ramp production there? Well going back to Joels earlier question about the status of Amax we have several opportunities to ramp up HB production.
And so I think the first thing we're doing is managing our capital to make sure that we manage our capital properly and were in line with our banks and that were all on the same strategy and same game plan there.
So we have significant capacity that we can bring on in bite size pieces of capital.
And so our first goal is to get this transition well underway and then get back to some of those solar investments because they are so compelling from the rate of return standpoint.
Okay.
Thats helpful.
Thanks.
And then you made a comment about potentially looking at international markets for Trio.
Just wondering if thats a focus and what markets you maybe targeting? Well weve shipped internationally for years now.
I mean Trio weve been part of that export market for years so were aware of it.
And there have been a lot of markets that we havent had the supply to serve as well as serve our domestic customers.
So it's simply been a lack of supply to actively participate in those markets.
So I mean theyre very very geographically diverse but I dont think it's appropriate for us to describe specific markets that were going to go attack given that theres only two producers in this product.
Fair enough.
Thanks a lot.
Thomas I see we have one last question please.
The next question comes from Brian MaCarthur of UBS.
Good morning.
I just want to go back to the conversion.
You talked a bit obviously how cost will come down but does it help your sustaining capital once you get rid of that complex East plant on a sustainable basis going forward? Yeah.
Thats a great question.
If you look at just one of the many levers involved in our fixed charge issue with the bank were way under -- historically weve been significantly under the sustaining capital number that's laid out in that -- that potentially creates that problem.
So the good news is that if we look at sustaining capital of each of the plants that we've built and improved upon those numbers come down very significantly.
So that's why we feel like we have many options and levers to pull on that covenant issue.
But Brian you hit the nail right on the head by having much simpler plants.
They become much more reliable you get much more uptime which decreases your COGS and increases your reliability.
And you would want to comment on how much that saving would be versus your historical run rate of sustaining is that $10 million or $5 million? I think that wed be happy -- youre going to hear those numbers in our fourth quarter call.
So were happy to give you that guidance but directionally its lower.
Fair enough.
Second part just so I fully understand the depreciation problem I realize this is all accounting.
So when you convert mid next year you obviously have high depreciation up you short your lives on East.
I assume thats mine as well as asset.
Does your depreciation start to drop massively at that point or are those assets still going to go out for four five years so that higher depreciation rate run for that period of time? Just trying to figure out whats happening on that side of equation.
Its not the mine.
Its not the mine at all.
Its really certain pieces of equipment that were now looking at saying what pieces of equipment can we use in other parts of the plant -- other parts of the Carlsbad region.
So if you think about it we have the HB plant the West plant the North plant.
And so there's an opportunity to take some of that equipment and move it around.
In the short-term we try to identify certain pieces that were going to accelerate depreciation on.
And Ill let Brian elaborate on that a little more.
Yeah.
Brian this is Brian.
I think thats a good summary.
So these certain pieces of equipment that were not going to be using post-transition those are the ones that get accelerated.
The remaining assets that we have at East will continue to be depreciated on their normal lives.
And so I think oppose to transition you'll see that depreciation number drop back down to probably closer to historical level.
So its just kind of a little short-term issue here as we work through that transition.
Great.
That helps a lot.
Thank you very much.
Brian thank you.
And I want to thank everybody for taking the time to dial-in.
We really appreciate your interest in Intrepid.
We look forward to speaking with everybody in the near future and thank you again for your interest.
This concludes todays conference call.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Thank you for participating and have a pleasant day.
This is the Chorus Call conference operator.
And welcome to the Intrepid Potash fourth quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Gary Kohn Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead Mr.
Kohn.
Thanks Joe.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our call today.
I will remind you that parts of our discussion will include forward-looking statements as defined by U.S.
Securities Laws.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are based on a number of assumptions which we believe are reasonable.
These statements are based on the information available to us today and we are not assuming any obligation to update them.
You can find more information about risks and uncertainties to our future performance in our periodic reports filed with the SEC.
During today's call we will refer to certain non-GAAP financial and operational measures.
Reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included in this morning's press release.
Our SEC filings and press releases are available on our website at intrepidpotash.com.
Presenting on the call today are Bob Jornayvaz our Co-founder Executive Chairman President and CEO; and Brian Frantz Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer.
Kelvin Feist our Senior Vice President of Sales and Marketing is also available for Q&amp;A.
With that I'll turn the call over to Bob.
Thank you Gary and good morning everyone.
In this morning's press release you saw that our auditors were required to add going concern language to their audit opinion.
I want to address this first.
We announced on January 15 that we had amended our debt covenants for both our credit line and our senior notes to take into account the then current potash pricing environment and expectations for spring demand.
That amendment was designed to get Intrepid through an anticipated low-price environment to the conversion of our East facility to Trio-only production.
However considering the further potash price declines we now expect that we will not be able to maintain compliance with our revised debt covenants throughout 2016.
We have been engaged with our lenders during the last few weeks to come to an updated agreement but unfortunately despite the cooperative nature of our discussions we were not able to reach another new agreement before our 10-K filing deadline today.
If we are unable to meet compliance with our covenants our lenders would have the ability to demand repayment of all amounts due to them as we might not have adequate liquidity to pay the balance in full at that point in time the going concern language is required.
To provide us with the time and flexibility to continue working with our lending group we have obtained a 30-day waiver as to the going concern language.
We finished the year with more than $60 million of cash on hand and do not anticipate our cash balance going to zero this year.
In other words absent a failure to comply with our covenants and subsequent demand by our lenders to repay amounts outstanding to them we expect to have sufficient liquidity to meet all of our obligations without having to rely on our credit facility.
Our operational focus remains twofold.
Take steps to navigate the short-term market pressures while also continuing to transform Intrepid into a stronger more profitable company for the long term.
This includes the evaluation of the viability of West in the event of a prolonged depressed potash price environment.
In the short term we took action to reduce our 2016 cost by more than $17 million including eliminating 5% of our work force changes to salaries and benefits reducing our corporate office space and implementing other general and administrative savings.
Several quarters ago we implemented a continuous operational improvement plan which is yielding significant results and we continue to work daily on cost savings measures.
On the transformation of Intrepid we continued to take very specific prudent steps toward our goal of long-term profitability.
We are in the process of transitioning east so we can remove our highest cost potash production and overtime replace it with more financially attractive Trio.
The results from two bypass test we conducted in December and January further validate our belief in the conversion plan.
The first benefit is expected to come when we complete the initial phase of the transition which is expected to occur in mid-2016.
We expect our potash cash operating cost per ton to be lower as we will remove from the mix our highest cost potash production.
We will also be permanently taking productive capacity of over 200 000 tons off the currently oversupplied market.
This adds to what we estimate based on market commentary to be 2016 production curtailments of more than 5 million tons as global producers are showing more discipline.
The second benefit is expected to come from the additional production and sales of higher value Trio.
Immediately following the conversion we anticipate increasing Trio production run rates.
As we exit the fourth quarter of this year and we expect commissioning to be completed we plan to be on an annualize Trio production run rate of nearly 300 000 tons.
Our infrastructure at east is more than adequate to handle our expected Trio production.
We believe that the Trio market has been undersupplied and that demand will continue to outpace supply.
Our sales team has begun to execute a plan to introduce Trio into new geographies where we believe we are developing the potential for brand new markets.
We have also been working to secure new customers and to reengage previous customers whom we were unable to consistently fully supply in the past.
We have immediate access to the needed langbeinite ore for Trio-only production.
This ore is more than enough to support our current production targets while we continue to develop additional attractive langbeinite ore reserves which exist in a different untapped zone.
Testing has indicated that by focusing on a single ore type we see significantly improved ore grades and recoveries to level sufficient to achieve our production targets.
The simplified process combined with expected increases in production from higher langbeinite ore grades and in turn improve recoveries supports our expectations for Trio cost per ton to continue to improve from current levels.
Our ultimate goal is for Trio to be very cost competitive with the only other producer in the space.
Making Trio a larger percentage of our portfolio represents an attractive EBITDA opportunity.
We are moving quickly to capture this opportunity.
Once East potash is permanently shutdown West will be our only conventional mine and a most expensive facility to operate.
We are evaluating this facility in light of the current and projected price environment.
Our objective is clear take the necessary steps to navigate this difficult cycle while also better positioning Intrepid for the future.
We are rebalancing our portfolio by increasing Trio's contribution to our profitability and cash flow and eliminating higher cost potash production.
We have reduced our cost structure with several initiatives.
We are working to modify our loan agreements to provide us the flexibility and time to complete our plan.
Now Brian will update you on the financial results and the outlook.
Thanks Bob and good morning everyone.
Fourth quarter financial results were down from last year's fourth quarter influenced by the same factors others in the industry have been addressing.
Specifically we experienced softer potash volumes and declining prices.
When looking at our reported results there are two large non-cash charges detailed in the tables accompanying this morning's release that I want to touch on.
First we recognized impairment charges related to our conventional assets in Carlsbad.
The impairment result from the decline in potash prices relative to the book value of these assets and stems from the capital previously invested when potash pricing was higher.
Related to the impairment of our conventional assets in New Mexico is an increase in the valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets.
Keep in mind that Intrepid will still be able to utilize its deferred tax assets in the future and will be able to reverse current valuation allowances once we again begin to generate taxable income.
Because of our significant NOLs we don't anticipate paying cash taxes in the near future.
As we articulated on the third quarter call we did have additional lower-of-cost-or-market and abnormal production charges in the fourth quarter.
The LCM adjustment of $22 million in the quarter and $32 million for the year is a result of having cost per ton which exceed the current market potash prices.
The LCMs primarily stem from our conventional production facilities.
Abnormal production costs for the quarter were $3 million and for all of 2015 were $10 million.
These costs are associated with the temporary shutdown at West from the maintenance activities related to the West production shaft issue and from the test days conducted at East that Bob referred to earlier.
We ended 2015 with cash and investments totaling $64 million.
We generated $23 million of cash flow from operating activities and used $46 million of cash for our capital expenditures.
With that operator our prepared remarks are concluded and we're ready to take some questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question today comes from Adam Samuelson with Goldman Sachs.
Maybe first I just want a clarification on the 30-day waiver on the going concern language.
Can you just explain what that actually means in a practical sense between filing with the SEC and dealing with your lenders and the covenants? In our current bank agreements we had a provision that if there were a going concern opinion that could be construed as an event to default.
And so what we've done with that is obtained a 30-day waiver such that by the end of -- if that has not cured by the end of March cured or waived then it would be an event of default at that point in time.
But as we sit here today and for the next 30 days that is not going to be construed as an event to default.
And then as you look at the production base moving forward I think clearly East potash is going away in the middle of the year and becoming Trio.
Evaluating West can you talk about where you are in terms of evaluating the competitiveness of West or if you think there is a price level on a sustained basis FOB Midwest or whatever benchmark you want to choose that that asset no longer makes sense to run? And then finally any kind of view on what Trio cost structure actually looks like once you converted East to Trio-only? Adam I'll take that.
We're not going to give you a specific target at West.
We've had lot of success literally month-over-month quarter-over-quarter at continuing to reduce costs.
As we'll be the one of two Trio producers in United States both dollar-based producers putting our cost numbers out there for our only other competitor is not something we -- I know that makes it difficult for you to build a model.
But we believe we are cost competitive.
We see that in the marketplace.
And I'll leave it at that.
We have great ore bodies.
Our ore grades will be going up significantly as we transition.
Ore grades always help your cost structure.
And we have the luxury of having very significant untapped langbeinite ore reserves that will help us to reduce our cost structure.
The numerous langbeinite-only test days that we've run have given us confidence that we can run at the run rates that we have talked about.
And hopefully eventually sequentially quarter-over-quarter we'll place those expensive potash tons with langbeinite tons.
So as to today and not giving you the guidance to build as robust a model as I know you'd like to we're just not going to provide those numbers today.
Next question comes from Chris Parkinson with Credit Suisse.
Bob you hit on this a little bit.
But just can you give a little more details on how you're marketing Trio specifically versus MOP in terms of relative K2O contents as well as other nutrients as well as addressing some of the comments you had on some untapped volume opportunities? As you know Trio is a very very different product than MOP.
First there was a one deposit of it in the world.
It's located in southeast New Mexico.
Mosaic has been mining there for decades and decades and decades and we are just beginning to go back and reenter certain areas where we have very high-grade langbeinite ore reserves as well as drilling a drift down to the third ore zone.
So number one from having a dollar-based competitor located across the street who has been mining there for years we're not competing with people that are coming in United States looking for currency.
And I think we'd all be fooling ourselves not to admit that a lot of the potash issues that we're seeing today are currency related.
And so as both dollar-based producers I think that's one thing that we have to focus on.
Neither party is going to have a significant freight advantage and we believe that we can be very cost competitive.
As we have traveled the world and look at what we believe that there are areas that don't need as much K as someone might want to buy using say an SOP product.
The non-chloride market is a very large and growing market.
It's got a good CAGR on it.
It's reflective in the pricing and how the price has very clearly bifurcated from MOP.
One it's highly commoditized has become highly commoditized in the current environment through the difference in currency exchange rates and the overcapacity that the producers chose to lead to oversupply in the market which has driven it down.
While langbeinite pricing or Trio pricing has remained quite stable especially when you look at in comparison to MOP.
Our goal is and always has been to go out and grow this market because of its non-chloride status the magnesium and the sulfur that it has.
When you go out and you talk to retailers there are others that suggested that people can come up with these complex blends to avoid buying Trio but the one thing that we find is that retailers would rather have bin space for one product that services all those needs rather than multiple bins with multiple products.
And so that's what we're experiencing in the market.
So I hope I'm answering your question.
But it's a multifold strategy around growing it globally growing it domestically growing the market.
And then doing a better job of servicing those customers that we do have that we've had on allocation as we continue to literally sell every time that we've been producing and as we speak today are once again virtually out of inventory.
So Chris does that answer your question? It certainly does.
And then just a quick question on the MOP side.
You saw obviously one of your local competitors get out of your key market.
But in terms of longer-term netback maximization can you just comment on -- I mean is there anything that can happen in some of your key markets near your mines such as West Texas or anything west of the Mississippi where you could potentially let's say decouple yourself a little bit from Midwest pricing simply because it's more difficult for Nola imports or Canadian products to reach those areas? We see that now.
We're having -- the great news is Texas is having ideal weather and we're having a great truck season right now.
If there is something positive that we're seeing we're seeing very very good movement into Eastern New Mexico and into the state of Texas Oklahoma where they are having good weather.
So we're seeing the beginnings of a good robust spring truck market.
And that part we're very pleased with.
But we are seeing other producers and especially the trading community that has put pressure on pricing but our truck market has been very robust.
And I think we're seeing great weather in state of Texas.
And when Texas is moving that's a wonderful market for us and that we're seeing.
So once again I hope I'm answering your question.
We do get the differences in the various markets and our ability to serve them with geographical opportunity.
Next question is comes from Mark Connelly with CLSA.
Just two things Bob.
Are you still targeting a one-to-one transition ratio for Trio at East? And is it going to be a ramp before you get to that sort of a ratio or just a normal conversion ramp? And second is it fair to say that in the past inventory your cost of inventory tons is moving up? And do we have to wonder about a write-down there? Well let me first talk about the ratio.
Our long-term ratio is to produce significantly more Trio than we used to produce potash.
That will be a ramp up scenario that will occur sequentially quarter-over-quarter.
Our hope is that you will see our Trio production as we have continued to improve our palatalization rates very significantly as we are with our test days seeing much more natural granular being produced.
We feel like we have a great opportunity there to replace those tons as we have spoken about before.
And the rate at which we do that will continue to give guidance as we complete the transition and follow-up the ramp.
And so all of the test days that we have invested heavily on indicate that we have that ability.
As to the inventory question I'll let Brian answer that.
Did that answer the question about the replacement of the potash tons? Yes that's perfect.
I guess a couple of things on the write-down question.
We took a comprehensive review as is required by GAAP to look at all of our assets there in the fourth quarter and resulted in that impairment charge that you see out there about $323 million.
And as I stated earlier I mean that's related to those conventional assets in New Mexico.
At the same time again in accordance with our normal practices we always take a look at inventory to make sure it's properly stated at the lower-of-cost-or-market.
So in terms of future write-downs on the fixed asset side on those conventional assets side I don't anticipate much of that coming out since we've written those assets down.
And then on the inventory side we'll continue to monitor that going forward.
Obviously as Bob said we're trying to improve our cost structure and as we improve our cost structure that should limit those opportunities.
But obviously we're in a volatile potash pricing environment right now.
So hopefully that gives you a little more coloring responsive to that question.
Yes sure.
I just wanted to understand that it had been part of the review so that's very helpful.
Next question is from Ben Isaacson with Scotiabank.
This is Oliver Rowe in for Ben Isaacson.
You mentioned the use of a consultant previously to identify areas for cost savings and that you're working on the savings daily.
And you've implemented some pretty significant savings.
So I'm just wondering how much more of this process is left? What avenues do you see additional savings possibilities? And sort of how much of a size are you looking for there? As much as possible.
Its ongoing daily multiple times daily.
I don't mean to be flippant in my answer but it's a very iterative dynamic process that once it begins and you have procurement officers reporting weekly on savings and how they're finding ways for savings things complete restructuring of how we have startups which affect our peak demand usage at certain plants that then affect our electricity bills the savings that we will incur by reducing our natural gas costs all I can say is that we are as engaged in a cost savings measures as I can describe.
Trying to give you a sense of the volume.
We recognize the environment that we're in and we're reacting as quickly as we possibly can to reduce cost as fast as we can.
And so I feel like that's an incomplete answer.
I apologize for not being able to give you more clarity around those numbers but I can only assure you that we're working with the utmost urgency to continue to cut cost.
The next question is from Brett Wong with Piper Jaffray.
Just wondering if you can talk a little bit more about the market dynamic for Trio? We watched pricing in the quarter fall sequentially in line with production you realized in potash pricing.
And typically Trio fundamental is holding a little bit better in terms of the price.
So just wondering what's happening there and what market dynamics are driving that? I think that was a -- let me think of the right way to phrase this.
Our customers who are paying the prices -- gladly is the wrong word.
I do think that we have a competitor that is concerned about having a new entrant into the market.
And so I think we just believe that the Trio market -- I'm actually a Trio customer throughout the United States and so I know what I pay at various farms and ranches that I own around the United States.
And so I just feel like that the market dynamics are very positive for this market.
I know what we pay I know the value that we get at our various farms and ranches that I own.
And I don't know how else to answer that other than you're right the price did go down but we didn't feel a lot of pressure coming from our customer base on that piece.
So it seems more like a competitive aspect.
And if that's the case what's the risk of that continuing going forward of concern of new entrants? And I mean I know there're really [multiple speakers] available.
There's only going to be two producers and if we're cost competitive then that speaks for itself.
And so someone trying to be preventative is one step.
But I can just state with my own feeling and sense of clarity that it wasn't as market-driven from a customer perspective as one might perceive.
And then just talking about the solar solution tons.
Can you just talk about production there and obviously whether that has been more favorable? Can you just talk to any production issues or anything that you've seen there? There is no issues.
I think all the guidance that we have previously given remains intact.
If we just have good normalized weather then those facilities we believe can and will compete with just about anybody else and so those facilities are operating at very very high mill operating rates.
And as you know that those can have weather variability.
And we've been unfortunate last two years and that at two of our facilities we had 100-year rain events but so far so good.
I don't know how else to answer that.
The next question comes from Don Carson with Susquehanna.
Just two questions.
Bob where do you see the floor in Midwest pricing given the delivery costs of some of the Saskatchewan producers which would suggest something maybe in the Corn Belt around $200 $205? And then secondly I noticed your price premium versus your competitors declined sequentially on KCl both in dollars and percentage terms in Q4.
Is that just reflective of the Canpotex proving run that was done in a very competitive marketplace? And how would you see that price premium unfolding going forward? Well as you know we've got a decade long track record on that.
I think that one of the Canadian producers with the Canpotex run was extremely aggressive in where they put those tons.
I would imagine some of those tons given where we think they went had a negative margin.
It's just a gas.
So I mean we're just going to have to see how it plays out.
I think historically it's hard to throw out 15 years of history and to believe that 15 years of history is going to reverse on one quarter.
Let's be honest this was an extremely volatile chaotic quarter both from farmer and decision created within the -- what the trade rags that farmers were reading.
We saw a lot of price pressure from importers.
We saw traders that were trying to seek liquidity in very quick and rapid fashions.
We had a Canpotex run.
We had commodity price volatility.
We've had major major currency fluctuations.
I mean when we look back at this quarter we'll remember it is one of the more volatile that we've seen in the history and we've survived it.
And we believe we'll continue to survive and eventually prosper as a smaller but much more profitable company.
So we're just not going to -- I'm glad the quarter is behind us.
We've put a lot of a news out there for people to digest.
Once again I hope I've answered your thoughts your concerns with as much clarity as I can possibly give.
This concludes the time allocated for questions.
I will now hand the call back over to Bob Jornayvaz for closing comments.
End of Q&amp;A I want to thank everyone for taking the time to dial-in.
We really appreciate your interest in Intrepid.
We look forward to speaking with everyone in the near future and thank you again for your interest.
Have a great day.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may disconnect your lines.
Thank you for participating and have a pleasant day.
Welcome to the Intrepid Potash Inc.
2013 Fourth Quarter Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Gary Kohn Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Lori.
Good morning.
Thank you all for joining us on our fourth quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
Presenting on the call today are Bob Jornayvaz Executive Chairman of the Board; Dave Honeyfield President and Chief Financial Officer; and Kelvin Feist Senior Vice President of Sales and Marketing.
Also in the room with us today are Hugh Harvey Executive Vice Chairman of the Board; John Mansanti Senior Vice President of Operations; Martin Litt Executive Vice President and General Counsel; and Brian Frantz Vice President of Finance and Chief Accounting Officer.
I would like to remind everyone that the statements made on this call that are not historical fact or that express our belief expectation or intention including statements about our financial and operational outlook are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the United States securities laws.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are based on a number of assumptions which we believe are reasonable.
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from our expectations.
You can find more information about these risks and uncertainties in our annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q as filed with the SEC.
Also during today's call we will refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Our earnings press release includes reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures.
Our SEC filings and press releases are available on our website at intrepidpotash.com.
With that I will turn the call over to Bob.
Thanks Gary.
And Good morning and welcome to our conference call.
Thank you for joining us.
Since Hugh and I founded Intrepid we've been investing capital to build new and update existing assets with the objective of lowering our per ton operating costs and increasing production.
We are nearing completion of this multi-year major investment phase and we will significantly reduce the amount we invest in capital projects until we see a sustained improvement in the outlook for the potash market.
With the current pricing and supply dynamics we have taken the difficult but necessary steps during this downturn to reduce our SG&amp;A and operating costs.
We will actively manage the balance sheet to ensure that we have the opportunity to see the benefit of our years of investment as these assets get commissioned and begin performing as designed.
A major advantage for our company which is beneficial in any market condition is the proximity of our assets to the market and the diversity of our customer base.
Because of this proximity and our diversity we continue to achieve an on average higher net realized sales price than our Canadian competitors.
In 2013 we made great progress on a multitude of projects we had underway.
Each project is essential to building a more durable and competitive company.
Most significantly we have brought our HB Solar Solution mine into operation.
HB was just a division a few years ago and through our deliberate and persistent efforts we brought into service a real game changer for Intrepid.
At full capacity which we expect in the 2015-2016 of operation season HB is designed to increase our potash production by 20% to 25% and these tons will be produced at a cash operating cost estimated to be nearly half our current rate.
With the addition of the HB tons and the expansion we have completed at Moab we are improving the overall cost structure of Intrepid.
Starting with this year's harvest and even more so in the coming years we will have an increasing percentage of our total production coming from our low cash cost Solar Solution method which in turn will continue to lower our company-wide per ton cash operating cost.
We've been making improvements to the West to stabilize and increase recovery rates and to remove bottlenecks from the process.
We expect to finalize our upgrade of the West in the first half of this year and then begin seeing improved recoveries as much more efficient operations during the second half of the year.
Our new North Compaction facility brings together the HB and the West projects into one system and we have created the capacity to granulate 100% of the potash we produce in Carlsbad so that we have the flexibility to choose the best sales opportunities available whether it's for standard or granulated product.
The new North facility is the final piece in accomplishing an important strategic objective creating the capacity to granulate 100% of our potash production across all of our mines.
We believe that this new facility produces some of the highest quality product in the industry.
As I mentioned earlier and I want to reiterate Intrepid enjoys several differentiators that have and will continue to set us apart.
We are well situated with production facilities in key markets close to our customers.
We serve a diverse customer base with high-quality products.
We operate at full production rates and sell what we produce.
And as we bring on HB and other major capital projects this year the result of a multi-year program we're going to be lowering our per ton cost.
I'd like to have Kelvin add a few comments about our sales and the market.
Thanks Bob.
Our fourth quarter net average realized sales price for potash was $338 per ton remaining well ahead of our North American competitors.
During the fourth quarter price uncertainty caused agriculture buyers to be cautious and they felt no real sense of urgency to place orders instead counting on just-in-time deliveries and consignment programs offered by major producers.
Fourth quarter ag potash sales were also influenced by weather and the late harvest compared with what was a strong fourth quarter a year ago.
As a result fourth quarter and full year potash sales volumes were both off 18% compared to 2012.
We did grow potash sales volumes sequentially 7% from the third quarter of 2013 and are currently seeing some early field demand materialize as dealers return to the market in response to commitments from the farm gate.
We're also seeing signs of a strengthening in the international markets with strong demand in Latin America and Chinese contract settlements.
Domestically the recent $20 per ton price increase announcements would suggest some near-term stability in potash pricing.
However we remain cautiously optimistic with regard to price recognizing that predicting it beyond the spring is difficult as we still see some supply and demand imbalance and a risk averse buyer in the marketplace.
The high demand for our premium and granular specialty fertilizer Trio allowed us to have another successful sales year nearly matching our 2012 Trio sales volume.
This was despite most of the fertilizer markets being softer throughout 2013.
We also were able to hold pricing steady from a year ago with an average net realized sales price in the fourth quarter of $345 per ton which is down only $2 a ton from the 2012 fourth quarter.
Customer demand for our premium and granular Trio still exceeds our current and improving production rates.
We continue to focus on meeting this demand by producing more premium Trio through operating improvements at the plant.
In fact our team in Carlsbad produced more premium Trio in the fourth quarter than any other quarter in plant's history.
Thanks and I will now turn the call over to Dave.
Thank you Kelvin.
In the fourth quarter the convergence of lower prices depressed sales volume and estimated cost -- or escalated cost created a net loss.
Looking into 2014 we know that our cash flows will be largely impacted by the pricing environment particularly in the first half of the year ahead of our lowering cost with our new assets.
We've developed a plan to answer these challenges and we've set measurable goals to ensure that we made the necessary progress.
First it's essential that we achieve our goal lowering cash operating costs at our Carlsbad operations.
This will be achieved by obtaining the benefits of the new lower-cost production from our HB Solar Solution Mine and improvements in our recoveries at West that are now possible because of our new North granulation plant.
Second we're already benefiting from the steps that we took to reduce our annual expense run rate by over $15 million with the workforce reduction and other specific cost-saving measures.
And third we are reducing our capital spending by more than $200 million this year now that the majority of the spending for our major projects is behind us.
We are closely managing capital investment spending to maintain liquidity and to generate free cash flow in 2014.
We did operate well in the fourth quarter crossing several important milestones which indicates that we have taken strides in the right direction.
Most notably we brought the HB mill into service at year end making it possible to have our first production run of HB tons early in January.
As Kelvin mentioned we pelletized a record number of Trio tons as well in the fourth Quarter.
When you consider the level of disruption to normal operations from the capital investment work that was occurring at the facilities I view our full year potash production results as a success.
On the cost side however both our cash operating and total cost of goods sold per potash increased 8% in 2013 from 2012.
This was not unexpected from a directional perspective yet I don't believe it's indicative of our true run rate.
We incurred higher-than-normal expenses related to the work being performed and the fourth quarter in particular showed unusually high per ton cost.
We experienced an interruption at one of our mines due to a loss of power from our supplier we had higher-than-planned maintenance costs and we had some year-end true-ups and estimates for employee benefits and higher property taxes.
The implementation of the new plants and facilities at HB at West at Moab are expected deliver lower per ton potash operating cost for the full year 2014 when you compare it to '13.
The benefits from these items will be greater in the back half of the year as the West upgrades are finished as the second larger annual harvest occurs at HB following the summer of operation season and as the first meaningful product from our new cavern system in Moab is the delivered in the fall of this year.
As our guidance shows we expect to reduce our cash operating cost per potash in the neighborhood of $20 per ton for the first half to the second half of the year.
While we're improving our per ton cash operating costs total potash cost of goods sold per ton will be relatively flat year-over-year when you consider the additional depreciation expense from the capital projects that are brought online estimated at approximately $10 per ton.
The Trio results also reflect the hard work that the team has done to execute an improvement plan aimed at increasing production and lowering costs.
For the full year production was up 35% from 2012 helping to drive a 4% improvement in both cash operating and total cost of goods sold for the year.
We're confident in the overall trajectory at Trio and the value of the product to our customers and to farmers.
And we expect to grow production and lower costs again in 2014.
While the operational successes that we had and that the steps we took this past year are essential to keeping Intrepid on track to achieve our longer-term goals I recognize that price always plays a part.
We entered 2014 with the majority of the work and the spending on our capital projects complete putting us in a position to generate free cash flow in 2014.
I'm confident that we're on the right path to return to profitability over the course of the year and that we will benefit from diverse end markets close customer relationships and operating facilities that are favorably located close to the markets that we serve.
Operator at this time we're ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question today comes from Mark Connelly of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 bigger picture questions.
With respect to the new granulation flexibility is there a meaningful cost when you're swinging hard from one side to the other that we should be aware of as we think about -- I mean obviously there's a big benefit to being able to be where the market is I'm just wondering whether there's something funny that happens during that swing on the cost side.
And the second question obviously your Trio volumes and your prices look pretty good.
As you pick up more experience with Trio do you expect that business to be fundamentally less volatile than potash? This is Dave.
I'll touch based on the granulation question and Kelvin if you can address the Trio question that would be helpful.
Sure.
On the granulation side Mark I think the important piece is exactly where you highlighted that we can look at the markets and look at the relative demands whether it be industrial feed ag and move product into those based on the need to compact.
Overall out of our Carlsbad facility there is a cost to compaction and it's somewhere around $20 to $25 a ton.
And what we do is we really take into account the margin on product.
So we don't see that number change dramatically if we ramp up or ramp down because we're not usually going 100% compaction 0% compaction.
We're always running it at some rate.
So it really doesn't fluctuate.
I think the important piece is really that we're focusing on the margin associated with the ton that we produce.
And we've got the ability to stay focused on the highest margin opportunity.
Yes Mark this is Bob.
It really gives us the opportunities we're seeing in Moab and Wendover right now and now in Carlsbad to make the right product for the right market at the right time to achieve the maximum margin.
I mean as we see the industrial market strengthening right now and we've seen some great strength in that market at certain of our plants we're not compacting 100% because we're doing well on selling into the industrial market.
So it's that flexibility that we really never had before.
It also takes you totally out of the realm of any kind of product quality issues having these new compaction plants.
Instead of running a 45-year-old compaction plant that we had stopped investing in that occasionally cause some product quality issues we're past those.
And so those savings go straight to your bottom line and be able to compact a product that has a longer shelf life and gives us the opportunity to move farther out to get closer to the farmer with less degradation risk and a much higher product quality standard.
Research Division</strong> That's super helpful.
It's Kelvin here Mark.
I'll just try and answer your question around your Trio volume and price question.
I think you're asking about the volatility as we bring on more production.
And I guess the way we see it is there's such a strong demand well beyond the ability for us to supply today.
So we just feel like that market is significantly bigger and we just don't see any dips or significant change to how that market is acting.
We're selling of course into premium high-value crops.
They want a low-chloride product into those markets.
So we really don't see a whole bunch of volatility as we bring on more production.
Yes and Mark this Bob again.
Once again when we entered the Trio market or the langbeinite market we did with the intention of going out and growing the market rather than trying to buy market share.
And as you know and everybody watched in '12 and '13 as we expanded our langbeinite production we got a little bit out over our SKUs and we stumbled a few times.
But now that we're out there and we continue to increase our palletization our demand for our granular and our premium products is pretty significant.
And so we're very confident that we'll be able to sell all that we can make.
The next question comes from Chris Parkinson of Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> You probably touched a little on this during the beginning of the call but can you further elaborate on what you're seeing in your specific markets within the U.S.
and discuss what you're seeing there from a competitive environment perspective relative to what some other players may be seeing in other areas farther East in the U.S.? Well I'll let Kelvin give you some color but we're seeing some good solid demand in our core markets very strong demand.
We've got a good order book.
We're seeing a firm demand and we're very pleased to see it.
Given the strategy that we had to try to get some of our product further out in the field and the fact that our new product has a much longer shelf life we're able to do that.
So I'll let Kelvin just talk a little bit about what we're seeing currently but we're seeing good demand.
Sure.
Chris it's Kelvin here.
In terms of where we're marketing I think this past fall was a little bit disappointing.
We had a bit of a late harvest and our application window was a little narrower in the Western Corn Belt and some of the other areas that we partake in.
We did see a real strong fill here which is encouraging.
I think the reality is when you see some of these contracts signed whether it be Chinese or other we're starting to see a floor in the marketplace and some confidence come back into the market.
So that's some of the reason why we're getting some positive feedback from the field and looking like we're going to have some pretty good success here going forward at least for the next 3 months or better.
The next question comes from Adam Samuelson of Goldman Sachs.
This is Jason Brie [ph] standing in for Adam.
I just have a quick question.
In the release you guided cost at HB Solar to half your current cash cost per ton which would be around $100 per ton based on your 2013 figure.
Whereas previously you guided them -- or HB to around $80 per ton.
We were curious if this was an apples-to-apples comparison.
And if so what was driving the difference? Jason this is Dave.
I think that you're probably trying to read into that a little bit too precisely.
we continue to see the HB tons be extremely low-cost utilizing the solar evaporation and the solution mining.
I think as we get -- move down the road and we continue to see the benefit of additional harvest seasons we just know that that trajectory is lower on the cost side.
So the ultimate cost per ton is going to be driven based on whether we're compacting that ton or whether it's being used in a standard market.
But that range that we talked about continues to be a very very solid and very achievable range.
And I think the important part of the question is those costs are meaningfully lower and they're first second quartile costs.
So that's really where the advantage starts to come in.
The next question comes from Don Carson of Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I want to talk a bit more about pricing in the domestic market.
Kelvin you said there's still a supply/demand imbalance.
We saw the Canadians very aggressive internationally last year.
That appears to be -- they appear to be less aggressive this year.
But what are you seeing in the domestic marketplace? Are they trying to place some of that excess capacity there? And is that -- I know that they're willing to sell for $30 to $40 a ton less than you are.
And Kelvin you also mentioned that you've got a risk averse buyer.
I'm just wondering do you mean the dealer or you're referring to the grower there? Don this is Bob.
I'll answer the first part of that.
Having just returned from TFI we're just seeing a much more solid firmer demand profile than we've seen in a long time.
And so we're seeing a buyer that's willing to step up to the plate and buy.
We're not seeing a market flooded if you will for tons of other producers trying to gain market share.
We're seeing a much more rational demand-driven market at this point in time that we've seen in quite a while.
And so I guess that's the color.
I was in most of the TFI meetings and that's the atmosphere in which we're operating today which was a much more optimistic positive atmosphere to be operating in.
Kelvin if you'd like to give it some more color? Sure.
Let me just talk to the question on the competitors first.
Certainly they're as aggressive as they've ever been.
I think that's some of what we're seeing on that supply/demand.
I think we're also seeing them be successful in the international markets.
So I don't know what to expect from that.
But what we know is we're holding our own in the markets that we serve and that's the critical piece that we're worried about.
With regard to the risk averse buyer just I think our view is that they're really trying to find every tool they can to derisk and not take a position without having the support from the farm gates.
So meaning knowing that the farmers come in to get the product and then them purchasing to cover that need that's sort of the position they've been in for -- I'm going to say extended period of time probably 12 months now.
So do we see that changing? It feels like it's starting to shift but I guess we want to see a few more months in front of us before we're absolutely sure that that's changing.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Just to follow up on that I know there's been more consignment selling particularly by your competitors.
I mean what percentage of your domestic sales are on a consignment basis? And do you think that as the market is in fact firming with better demand that some of this consignment selling may decline as a percentage of your overall business? Well what we saw in the first quarter was -- this is Bob again.
Fourth quarter and what we're seeing in the market now are dealers stepping up and buying their consignment tons.
And so that's something that has created a firmness in the market.
So while there are consignment tons out there and continued consignment programs I don't know that we know the exact percentage today because we're switching over.
We have to respond to what one of the producers is doing in the consignment realm.
We don't like consignment.
It's one of the realities of the market that we're having to deal with.
The good news is that we have seen dealers buy their consignment tons.
So we're seeing a bit of that market shifting and changing literally as we speak.
And so our view is that we don't like the consignment.
And when the market was falling the consignment was something that one of our competitors put kind of on the market.
So Kelvin I'll let you give some color to that.
Sure.
We use several different programs to try and work with our customer and I guess derisk and still manage our business.
I guess I don't see a significant change in our position there.
One thing that we do see is as the confidence comes back into the market I believe the consignment is less critical to the customer.
So as Bob suggests when -- as they start buying more they don't feel like they need that backstop as to the same degree.
So that's our expectation is it becomes a less critical piece of the business.
And as Bob suggested it's not something that we like but we certainly need to partake in in some cases to secure the volume that we need to secure.
The next question comes from Vincent Andrews of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> This is Ian in for Vincent.
Could you talk about the CapEx outlook for 2014 if that's a reasonable estimate of sustaining CapEx? And then secondly if pricing was to accelerate from here and we had more free cash flow generation what projects could potentially be you deploy that capital to in 2015? And similarly if pricing were to degrade from here if there's any areas within the CapEx budget that could be trimmed? Ian this is Dave Honeyfield.
Let's see on the -- our range on the capital side you can see that that's significantly lower and we've got a few wrap-up projects that are out there.
The sustaining capital that's being invested is at significantly lower levels than it has been in the past and a big part of that is that as we've invested in the plants you upgrade and you've got newer equipment and such.
So I think the piece to keep in mind there is that we have probably more flexibility today than we have ever had in terms of what that level is.
And certainly there have been historical periods out there where sustaining capital has really been shrunk down to whatever level is necessary to operate the business.
So I think the takeaways there that I would ask people to think about is effectively a very new and updated asset base knowing that we're through the majority of the large capital spend the fact that we're focused on delivering free cash flow and that we've got the ability to flex somewhat on our sustaining needs.
The next question comes from Ben Isaacson of Scotiabank.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on your market share.
Can you just talk a little bit about whether you've seen any pressure from exporters outside of North America bringing product into the Gulf Uralkali or maybe the Germana or Chileans et cetera? We'll let Kelvin address that in a second.
But once again in a historical perspective we're seeing volumes in those historic ranges.
We've seen sort of attempts to come into the market and we've competed very diligently as have other Canadian producers up and down the river to secure geography if you will.
We've seen some try to come in but we haven't seen as much as you might think.
Kelvin if you want to give some color too? Sure.
I guess I would say that as Bob suggests I don't believe we're seeing a significant change in the overall volume.
We are seeing different players showing up in New Orleans trying to market their products.
So I would say more players but not a significant change in volume.
The one thing that's interesting especially this year is how the weather might play out.
We all know that we've got a pretty late spring developing here and what will that create in terms of delays and potentially demerge on barges et cetera.
So I would say the customer today is quite concerned if they have a strong position with some of these folks.
And we're getting lots of questions asked about how we can maybe support some of that.
Given the river's condition and the railroad's condition we're having lots of discussions around logistics.
And so there have been Canadian railroad issues there's issues with cars and we've all read the headlines in terms of railroad traffic in obtaining cars and we all know the status of the river.
So Intrepid cannot be better situated to take advantage of any logistical problems that arise from those 3 areas.
The next question comes from Mark Gulley of BGC Partners.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So I wanted to follow up on the logistics question.
I had that on my list.
While it does sound like there might be delays in getting product to their destination with the very cold weather and the big snow cover there could also be big delays in fieldwork as well and the 2 might coincide.
Do you have any thoughts along those lines? Kelvin do you want to touch base with some of the feedback we've had from customers? Sure we've actually -- I think that's top of mind for not only farmers but our retail chain and certainly ourselves.
So I think the one positive we did see a pretty good run in terms of application on frozen ground here recently.
They covered some significant acres.
So I think every farmer is worried about maybe catching up what they didn't get done last fall.
But to your point in terms of application window for spring these guys can cover a lot of ground in a very short period of time.
So I would say that there's -- today there's not a concern.
If things continue for an extended period of time here it will become more crucial.
But all we can do is best position our product to try and accommodate the customer need and we feel like we're doing that as well as we can.
We're talking regularly with the railroad and other folks that handle our logistics to try and help us be successful this spring.
So I guess beyond that I guess I don't have a really good answer as to exactly how the spring is going to play out but our hope is that we're positioned as well as we can be in light of how late we think it might be.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Kelvin I want to come back also on pricing.
One of your competitors talked about the fact that they had already priced maybe 2/3 of their shipments for the first half of 2014.
So while demand might be good converting consignment tons to real tons invoice tons is it also possible that that has been already priced at fairly low levels that persisted maybe early in 2014? I think when we know about price today is there's typically an announcement of price and then an opportunity to take a fill prior to that.
So we know that our competitors have done some of that and I guess we've got a very good book and so we're quite comfortable with our position as well.
And I guess the expectation is that that customers and farmers are comfortable with where the market is going and that they're going to step in and apply nutrients in a balanced fashion.
Mark this is Dave.
I guess one other piece to add to that and I think -- I mean you usually highlight this as well.
But you really do need to look at what our mix of end markets are much more so than our competitors.
And the fact that we continue to supply a decent amount of our product into the industrial market a decent amount into the feed market I think it just highlights why we continue to achieve a higher net realized price because as you mentioned the announcements of price increases are always interesting and the realization of that is another thing.
And we're just uniquely positioned to be able to act on those items in a much more effective way.
Yes and just to give it a really simple context I mean the fact that we've broken the drop in the State of Texas in some of our very national truck markets gives us the opportunity to service those markets on a truck basis that our competitors just don't have the opportunity to service.
And so when we look at our national truck markets both in the Pacific Northwest and in Texas Oklahoma New Mexico Southern Colorado we see great opportunities developing just because of the moisture and the precipitation that we're seeing.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Bob if I can wrap up with kind of a longer-term question.
This maybe the last thing you want to think about given all the CapEx you've poured into your Carlsbad facility recently but your neighbor across the road seems to be souring a little bit on MLP production there even if they like -- their product competes with your Trio.
Are there any opportunities to expand your footprint in Carlsbad if that unfolds as it might? We watch with interest their rising costs at their Carlsbad facilities that they talk about very publicly.
And whether or not they shut down their MLP side or not we're very aware of and we watch.
That's the only langbeinite deposit in the world and we're both mining from the same deposit.
So we're just very aware I guess is how I'd leave that.
The next question comes from Joel Jackson of BMO Capital Markets.
I'm just trying to understand some of your guidance.
So you're modeling in 50 000 to 100 000 tons from HB each this year.
Your cost seems to be flat on a per ton basis to 2013.
It looks like your base asset production you expect to be a little bit lower adding the new HB tons which should lower cost but you guiding to flat.
Can you just talk a little bit about that? Joel this is Dave.
I think the pieces that I think you just need to recognize is that majority of the new HB tons start to come on with the second harvest.
That happens beginning in September.
And so the sales of those tons will realistically start to occur in October and November timeframe.
Without a doubt there's an acceleration as we bring on additional HB tons of the lower cost nature of those.
And I think overall on our base operations we'll see our costs really get back to where they were on a historical basis.
So I just see everything directionally going the right way.
You've got the continued contribution out of the Utah assets and we know we always have a little bit of variability in production there.
But Joel I would say overall things are going absolutely in the right direction and that's the piece I would take away from it.
Joel this is Bob.
Once again to reiterate is that each harvest grows a little bit by a little bit because your saturations in the mine as we continue to fill up the mine we have more residence time of the brines underground.
We come out with a higher ore grade or a higher brine saturation as time goes on because we're mining a greater area and we just have more residence time than more surface area that we contact with our brines.
So as each harvest occurs we produce more tons and that volume going through the same fixed cost if you will reduces our cost structure as time goes on.
So that's the beauty of this facility.
As it grows we increase more surface area.
I think you just have to understand that it's harvest after harvest after harvest.
Okay.
I just want to ask a question.
I don't know if I'm going to be off-base on this but in the last -- if you look at 2013 and what you're guiding for '14 your langbeinite production is going to be a good deal bigger larger than your Trio sales volume.
Is there something going on where you require more raw material to produce Trio? Joel this is Dave.
The highlight I'd point out of that is that as we continue to increase our pellet production in that area that's where our additional opportunities on the Trio side will be.
What we've built into our sales plan right now is essentially that the rate at which we have been pelletizing on average -- we've actually seen our recent months' pellet production be higher than that than that near-term average.
I think there's a fair bit of upside potential there.
But we've still got to get there on the pelletization front and we're seeing some good progress.
So I think the takeaway is that any granular any premium Trio ton we feel really good about and we just know that that's our opportunity is to continue to increase our rate on that front.
The only -- Joel this is Bob again.
The only part in the Trio market that we see that can be erratic is the standard side of that market.
And so 2 years ago we were selling all the standard that we could produce and we've always been able to sell all the granular that we could produce.
So the standard market is a little bit more erratic.
We are seeing increased interest in Africa in the standard product.
That's why we're so focused on as we have successfully done at all of our other plants and being able to granulate 100% of our potash product that's why it's so important for us to have the same strategy with our Trio product to gradually ramp up and ramp up our ability to create natural granular and to continue to pelletize on that Trio product.
The next question comes from Chris Perrella of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> A question on the inventory levels.
They've basically doubled since the end of 2012.
How much of that is structural or due to the delayed fall application season? And when do you expect those inventory levels to get worked down to more normal? Chris this Dave.
I'll touch on that and Kelvin if there's something that I don't cover off feel free to jump in.
I think the -- how soft it was in Q3 and Q4 we built a little bit more I'd say sylvite inventory than we had planned on.
I think Kelvin really already hit on upon that piece.
Chris when you think about the level of fill activity that's taking place here I think on the potash side that will come down pretty quickly.
And third without a doubt it's a small component of that.
It's somewhat structural in that we continue to try to move product forward in the system and make sure it's available because we know how quickly farmers will get into field do work and they want to make sure that their product is available at a moment's notice.
And we were very tight when we're going into the spring last year if you remember because the fall of 2012 was a pretty darn good fall.
So I think somewhere in the middle of those numbers is a pretty good number for us to manage to.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And a quick follow-up on the power outage that you took in the fourth quarter.
How much did that drive up the per ton cost? It ended up taking us out for I think it was 3 or 4 days at the end of the day.
The challenge with it is that as you bring product or bring plants back up after those exercises hard stops on motors and everything else just creates some real operating challenges.
So it was probably $3 or $4 when you factor in that and a couple of accounting items.
It was probably $10 a ton overall that came through the quarter directly.
The next question comes from Andrew Wong of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> A question.
So with regards to Trio production I think in the past you had mentioned that the Agrium [ph] project was expected to grow production by about 100 000 tons.
Can you talk about when we'll expect to see an acceleration in production? Andrew this is Dave again.
A big function of our Trio production is going to be the grade of the material that's coming out of the mine.
I think as we touched on a little bit earlier in the year we've experienced a little bit lower grades come through than we had anticipated.
We've made adjustments in our mining plant to address that.
And so we've taken into account what we think that operation can do.
Certainly higher grades result in higher recoveries which results in higher product volumes.
So without a doubt we know that the plant design and capacity is there.
And it's just a matter of wetness Managed through the mining side of that to makes sure that we've got the right ore coming into the plan.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a little bit on the cost the elevated potash cost during the past quarter.
With a bit of build up in inventory are these additional costs also impacting the first half 2014 cost? And are any of these issues something we could be concerned with going forward? Well the outlook numbers that we put out there really take all that into account.
They take into account the improvement on the recoveries at West in the second half bringing on additional HB tons.
So I think that the numbers that we put out there pretty well speak for themselves at this point.
There are no further questions at this time.
I will now turn the call back over to Bob Jornayvaz for closing comments.
I just want to thank everyone for their interest in and dialing in.
We appreciate your interest in Intrepid Potash.
We look forward to speaking with you in the near future.
Thank you very much.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Thank you for participating and have a pleasant day.