Greetings and welcome to the Juniper Networks First Quarter 2011 Financial Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Kathleen Nemeth Vice President Investor Relations for Juniper Networks.
Thank you.
You may begin.
Thank you Joe.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today.
Here on the call today are Kevin Johnson Chief Executive Officer; and Robyn Denholm Chief Financial Officer.
A couple of housekeeping items before we begin.
First as a reminder there is a slide deck that accompanies today's conference call.
To access the slides please go to the IR section of our website at juniper.net.
Second beginning with today's press release you will note that the financial table includes a breakout of routing and switching within our IPG segment.
This is consistent with our prior disclosures and earnings call.
Please remember when listening to today's call that statements made during this call concerning Juniper's business outlook economic and market outlooks future financial operating results and overall future prospects are forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors including economic conditions generally or in the networking industry changes in overall technology spending the network capacity requirements of service providers the timing of orders and shipments manufacturing and supply chain constraints variation in the mix of products sold customer perception and acceptance of our products litigation and other factors listed in our most recent report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC.
All statements made during this call are made only as of today.
Juniper undertakes no obligation to update the information in this conference call in the event facts or circumstances subsequently changed after the date of this call.
In discussing the financial results today Robyn will first present results on a GAAP basis.
And for purposes of today's discussion we will also review non-GAAP results.
For important commentary on why the management team considers non-GAAP information a useful view of the company's financial results please consult our 8-K filed with the SEC today.
For the detailed reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP results please see today's press release.
In general non-GAAP results exclude certain non-recurring charges amortization of purchased intangibles other acquisition-related charges and expenses related to stock-based compensation.
In today's call Robyn will also be providing forward-looking guidance.
As a reminder guidance is provided on a non-GAAP basis other than that with respect to revenue and share count.
All guidance is forward-looking and actual results may vary for the reasons I noted earlier.
GAAP guidance measures are not available on a forward-looking basis due to the high variability and low visibility with respect to certain charges which are excluded from the non-GAAP guidance estimates.
Please note that today's call is scheduled to last for one hour and please limit your questions to one per firm.
With that I will now turn the call over to Kevin.
Thank you Kathleen and welcome everyone.
Juniper delivered a strong first quarter for 2011 with solid financial performance and the introduction of several important new innovations that define our vision of the new network.
Revenue growth of 21% year-over-year came in ahead of our 20%-plus long-term target.
And our earnings performance was in line with expectations.
It was a good start to 2011 as we continue to execute on a multiyear growth agenda.
Overall our markets remain strong and we've got good momentum in the business.
However I'd like to comment on two recent events in the market and how we are managing the business in light of these events.
I'll comment first on Japan and then on the recent consolidation activity in the service provider sector.
The tragedy in Japan has affected the lives of many people.
Juniper and our employees have contributed to relief efforts including the Red Cross and we are committed to helping the people of Japan recover from this tragic event.
While our business saw a very limited impact from this tragedy during the March quarter we believe a measure of caution is warranted as we monitor business conditions in the region.
Over the past two years Japan has accounted for approximately 5% to 8% of our revenue.
We have a very solid enterprise business there as well as strong positions with leading service providers.
Again very limited impact in the March quarter but we will continue to assess conditions carefully as we progress through the June quarter.
With regards to consolidation we are seeing in the service provider sector while we expect our customers to review their capital expenditure plans consistent with typical processes we do not believe we will see any impact in the near-term demand as a result of recent announcements in the sector.
We've been in close contact with these customers and we feel very good about their conviction and their overall spending plans with Juniper for the year.
As I've noted in prior calls we are accustomed to typical investment patterns by our service provider customers that favor a stronger second half.
We expect that pattern to continue again this year.
The guidance we've issued today indicates a bright outlook and takes account of the current environment.
Robyn will talk more about that and some of the specific plans we are implementing to manage through this period in a few moments.
Over the past two years we have aligned the Juniper organization around a common vision for the new network.
We are clear on our strategy.
We are focused on the domain of networking.
And across the company we are 100% focused on innovation to meet the challenges facing customers as they grapple with the shortcomings of legacy networks.
Based on that vision and clarity of focus we are aggressively driving new solutions into the marketplace.
Execution is key.
I've been consistent in my view that the market trends of mobile Internet and cloud computing are creating demand for a new approach to networking.
These market trends play directly to our core strength at Juniper.
During the quarter we unveiled several new innovations that position us to capitalize on these trends as they accelerate.
First in February at the Mobile World Congress we introduced our MobileNext suite of secure software solutions.
The MobileNext software runs on our popular MX 3D platform and delivers the promise of the evolved packet core.
We are very pleased with the pace of new beta customers and trials and we expect this solution to be available in Q3 of this year.
Later in February we introduced our QFabric solution our architecture and technology for the data center that will enable customers to scale their networks faster and achieve significant leaps in performance.
Our QFabric solution is performing well in beta testing.
And in the final week of the March quarter we began shipping the QFX 3500 node our on ramp to the QFabric solution.
We continue to expect QFabric Interconnect and Director to be available in Q3 of this year.
Finally in early March we announced a new suite of products designed to deliver the networking industry's first Converged Supercore solution an integrated packet transport system that enables service and content providers to accommodate new levels of peak bandwidth demand.
This creates a new product category for the industry integrating optoelectronics and MPLS switching technology for the very first time.
Customer interest in this new product set is high and we are selectively targeting high impact beta opportunities.
Overall we are encouraged with the customer discussions we're having around our new innovations.
We're seeing strong service provider interest in our Converged Supercore and MobileNext offerings and positive enterprise and service provider reaction to our QFabric approach in the data center.
As we deliver on our innovation road map we are also expanding our Go to Market capability especially in the enterprise.
We increased our sales force in Q1 and invested in training and professional services capabilities as we ready our newly announced products and solutions for launch throughout the course of 2011.
We are focused on equipping our sales teams and partners with specialized capabilities needed to sell a broader product portfolio encompassing data centers switching and enterprise security.
These investments are critical to driving revenue growth in the years ahead.
Looking a bit deeper into customer demand trends and tone of the business we entered this year with market momentum and we believe that momentum continued through Q1.
As we have seen in recent periods growth was broad-based across customer sets product lines and geographies.
We produced a very strong quarter in the service provider segment.
A migration to IP packet switch networking is solemnly under way.
And our results show that we're positioning ourselves well for this opportunity.
Typically the first quarter is a period when service providers finalize their CapEx budgets for the year.
And I commented earlier on the consolidation we are seeing in the sector.
We've been clear in saying that our goal is to generate above market rate growth in service provider both by taking share and by capitalizing on expanded addressable markets with solutions like MobileNext Media Flow and our Converged Supercore.
We've been engaged closely with customers on our new architectural innovations and products.
And we feel good about Juniper's position for 2011 and beyond.
In the enterprise we saw a good year-over-year growth and we have even higher aspirations.
Our EX switching line generated 25% year-over-year growth.
And as I noted earlier we began shipping our QFX 3500 node late in the quarter.
Enterprise customers see this product as the on-ramp to our QFabric architecture and there has been a lot of excitement around it.
As a result we think there is some near-term pause in Q1 at the EX4500 our 10-gig top-of-rack switch as customers waited for the QFX 3500.
With the new product now shipping we believe this effect was a short-term anomaly.
And we've made good progress integrating our recently acquired solutions into our overall Go to Market portfolio for the enterprise.
Our acquisition of Trapeze Networks gave us an immediate position in wireless LAN market for enterprise campus and branch and we saw good revenue traction this quarter.
Our Altor acquisition is also now fully integrated with our existing security offerings for the data center.
And we delivered several wins as we are demonstrating Altor's ability to extend our solutions into the virtual machine infrastructure.
Additionally we are seeing traction with our Junos Pulse platform as enterprises respond favorably to our mobile security suite and secure remote connections via employees' smartphones and tablets.
Service provider interest in Junos Pulse is also ramping up.
And we're pleased to announce that TELUS has selected Junos Pulse to provide their customers a secure mobile experience.
Service providers such as TELUS enable us to reach both enterprise and consumer markets for mobile security in this era of smartphones and tablets.
These initiatives provide clear evidence that our business is growing quickly not just in revenue but in scope.
We are building a broad portfolio of offerings that enable customers to embrace the new network and scale quickly to meet demands for anytime anywhere secure network access.
We're also investing in the Go to Market capability to support our growth.
That's a key element of our operating principles for 2011.
As we look out beyond Q1 we believe that Juniper is in a strong competitive position.
We have momentum in both service provider and enterprise markets.
We're delivering on our innovation road map.
Our addressable markets are growing while our design wins in existing markets are expanding.
As we play offense in going after these opportunities we are also exercising operating prudence as we assess the market situations.
To wrap up our performance and our innovation announcements in Q1 underscore that the new network is here.
We're executing on the initiatives that will drive our multiyear growth agenda.
We have momentum in the market.
We are staying on the offensive as we seek new design wins driven by our innovation road map.
And we are doing all of these while delivering strong near-term results that adhere to our core operating principles and track to our long-term financial model.
With that I'll turn it over to Robyn for the financial review.
Robyn? Thank you Kevin and good afternoon everyone.
We continued our momentum from last year into the first quarter of 2011 and delivered good year-over-year revenue and earnings growth.
Given typical seasonality in Q1 we are pleased with our overall revenue growth especially in routing.
While we are not satisfied with the Q1 performance of our Security and Switch business the pipeline looks good and we are confident of executing to our growth objectives.
We are all aware of the recent tragic events in Japan.
At this time all Juniper employees that's based in our offices in Tokyo and Osaka are reporting stable conditions.
We've been in close contact with our employees customers and suppliers.
And we saw a small disruption to our business in the quarter.
However there is some level of uncertainty in the demand environment in Japan over the next couple of quarters and we've calibrated the potential risk to our business.
I will discuss this further in a minute.
Looking at the overall demand metrics for the quarter book-to-bill was slightly under 1.
We exited the quarter with record deferred total revenue and healthy product backlog.
During the quarter we successfully raised $1 billion through our senior note issuance at very competitive rates.
And we also acquired the intellectual property and other assets from Brilliant that enhances our mobile backhaul solutions.
In addition we acquired certain ASIC technologies and licensed intellectual property from OPNET to complement our work in the next generation packet optical solutions.
We also made good progress integrating Trapeze into our Switching business.
Our innovation engine was in high gear.
And in the quarter as we unveiled three new product lines MobileNext QFabric and the Converged Supercore the initial customer response has been very encouraging.
And as we outlined at our Financial Analysts Meeting last month these new products along with those under development will drive growth in our current market expand our team and help us achieve our long-term growth targets.
Now a review of the numbers.
On a GAAP basis total revenue for the first quarter was $1 002 000 000 -- sorry $1 102 000 000 down 7% sequentially and an increase of 21% year-over-year.
GAAP diluted earnings per share were $0.24 for the first quarter compared to $0.35 for the fourth quarter of 2010 and $0.30 per share in the prior year first quarter.
GAAP diluted earnings per share for the quarter includes $0.005 dilutive impact from the net interest expense related to the senior notes that we issued during the quarter.
And GAAP earnings a year ago had a favorable onetime tax benefit of approximately $0.10.
The non-GAAP diluted earnings per share for the first quarter was $0.32 compared to $0.42 in Q4 of 2010 and $0.27 in the prior year first quarter.
Included in the non-GAAP diluted earnings per share for the first quarter is $0.005 dilutive impact from the debt related to net interest expense.
Now let me provide you with some color on revenue by region business segment and market.
For the quarter the Americas were approximately 53% of total revenue EMEA was 27% and APAC was 20%.
Americas' revenue was flat sequentially from a seasonally strong Q4 and we saw good year-over-year revenue growth of 19% driven primarily by U.S.
service providers.
EMEA revenue was down 17% sequentially from a very strong Q4 and up 14% year-over-year.
We saw good growth in the U.K.
Ireland and Switzerland.
And whilst the EMEA team got off to a slower start than the other two theaters in Q1 they've had many good design wins in the quarter which bodes well for their results later in the year.
APAC revenue was down 12% sequentially but was up strongly 38% year-over-year.
Due to the timing of the earthquake in Japan there was only a small disruption to our business in Q1 as many of the orders were fulfilled prior to March 11.
Japan constitutes about 5% to 8% of our revenue.
And in Q1 we saw very strong sequential and year-over-year growth driven by service providers.
We also saw solid growth in other parts of APAC including Australia Indonesia and India.
On a segment basis total infrastructure revenue was $855 million down 6% sequentially and up 26% year-over-year.
Total router revenue was $749 million down 4% sequentially and up 25% year-over-year.
During the quarter we saw some good design wins with our T1600 Core Routers including a top U.S.
content service provider and global Tier 1 service provider.
As we look ahead we are confident of continuing our strong competitive position in the core given the high level of customer interest in our next generation T4000 that ships later this year and in PTX our Converged Supercore solution which ships in 2012.
MX had another record quarter with product revenue of $283 million up 20% sequentially and 103% year-over-year.
MX 3D continues to ramp very well and had record revenue of $152 million up 57% sequentially.
And this was driven by a strong demand from top content service providers and cable customers.
In the content delivery network market we are seeing good traction.
And during the quarter we secured an important win at SingTel with our Media Flow content caching solution.
You may recall that our Media Flow product offering is based on technology from our acquisition of Ankeena Networks.
Total switch revenue which includes EX and WLAN was $106 million down 14% sequentially and up 37% year-over-year.
EX revenue was $96 million down 21% sequentially and up 25% year-over-year.
This was due in part to seasonality related to enterprise customers.
And we also saw an anticipated slowdown in EX4500 orders given the launch of QFX 3500 our fabric ready 10-gig top-of-rack node that started shipping in the last weeks of the quarter.
We recorded our first revenue and are seeing very strong customer interest in this product.
During the quarter we made good progress integrating the Trapeze Networks acquisition and we are pleased with the solid execution by the team.
WLAN revenue for the quarter was $9.5 million and our pipeline looks strong.
Moving on to SLT revenue for the quarter was $247 million down 13% sequentially and up 6% year-over-year.
Some of this sequential decline was due to typical seasonality for our Security business in the first quarter.
However for the quarter SRX product revenue was $61 million which was lower than our expectations especially in the service provider sector.
Our early design wins with the high-end SRX are in deployment now.
The pipeline looks healthy as we continue to add more top-tier service provider customers and new enterprise customers.
The Junos Pulse suite of products had a good quarter with some nice design wins with both service provider and enterprise customers.
Looking more closely at the markets that we address service provider revenue was down 5% sequentially and up 25% year-over-year.
While Q1 tends to start up slowly as service provider budgets are being finalized we are pleased with our strong year-over-year growth especially with our Edge product portfolio.
Global Tier 1 service provider customers remain key contributors to our growth while we continue to diversify our base.
In Q1 we added 54 new Tier 2 and Tier 3 customers to our existing 640 service provider customers globally.
Enterprise revenue was down 11% sequentially and up 13% year-over-year.
The sequential decline was due to seasonality and some softness in EMEA.
Year-over-year enterprise switching and security grew at 21% and 15% respectively while enterprise routing grew 3%.
This was mainly due to the timing of federal orders in the U.S.
For the quarter service provider was 67% and enterprise was 33% of total revenue.
And there were no customers greater than 10% of total revenue.
On a non-GAAP basis total gross margins for the quarter was 67.9% of revenue near the high end of our long-term model range of 66% to 68%.
Product gross margins were a healthy 70.6% of revenue up from 69.3% both in the prior quarter and prior year Q1.
This was primarily due to mix and reductions in the manufacturing overhead costs.
Service gross margins was 57.5% of revenue down from 58.6% in the prior quarter and down from 61% of revenue in the first quarter of the prior year.
This was due to investments in services related headcount including professional services architecture personnel and spares as we prepare to support the recent launch of many new products.
Moving on to our operating expenses.
For the first quarter non-GAAP operating expenses totaled $502 million or 45.6% of revenue.
Relative to the fourth quarter operating expenses decreased $6 million due to a reduction in variable compensation including commissions and in marketing related expenses.
This more than offsets the typical increase in fringe-related employee expenses such as FICA.
Year-over-year operating expenses were up $97 million or 24% due to an increase in investments in sales and marketing head count new product development and acquisitions.
R&amp;D expenses were $237 million or 21.5% of revenue up 3% sequentially.
Sales and marketing expenses totaled $230 million or 20.8% of revenue down 5% sequentially.
G&amp;A expenses totaled $36 million or 3.3% of revenue down 2% sequentially.
Non-GAAP operating margin for the quarter was 22.3% in line with our expectations.
We continue to execute against our operating principle of balancing investments in key strategic areas while carefully managing our operating expenses.
Looking at our operating margins by segment.
Infrastructure operating margin was 24.5% compared to 26% in the prior quarter as well as that of Q1 of last year.
As a reminder the Infrastructure segment includes routers switches MobileNext and QFabric.
SLT operating margin was 14.7% compared to 19.7% in the prior quarter and 15% in Q1 of last year.
This sequential decline is consistent with the seasonal dip in revenue for the first quarter for SLT.
It also represents an increase in expenses due to increased headcount and the SMobile and Altor acquisitions.
Turning to the bottom line.
Juniper posted non-GAAP net income of $178 million for the quarter down 22% sequentially and up 21% year-over-year.
The GAAP tax rate for the quarter was 24.1%.
The non-GAAP tax rate for the quarter was 25.9% slightly lower than we expected due to a greater benefit from the R&amp;D tax credit and a favorable geographic mix of operating income for the quarter.
Looking at the balance sheet.
We ended the quarter with a total net cash and investments of $3.1 billion.
DSO was 38 days in the quarter compared to 45 days in the prior quarter and this is due to strong cash collections typical of the first quarter.
Cash flow from operations was $240 million down from $370 million from the prior quarter but I'm very pleased with our strong cash flow generation.
During the quarter we repurchased approximately 4.8 million shares at an average price of $42.14 per share or approximately $200 million worth.
Our weighted average shares outstanding for the quarter was 548.8 million shares up 7.4 million shares from the prior quarter.
CapEx totaled $54 million up $6 million from the prior quarter.
Depreciation and amortization was approximately $41 million consistent with prior quarters.
Total deferred revenue was a record $950 million up 7% sequentially.
Product deferred revenue was up 5% sequentially or $13 million.
Services deferred revenue increased sequentially by 9% or $53 million.
Q1 tends to be a seasonally strong services booking quarter given the renewal of our ongoing service contracts.
We ended the quarter with 9 087 employees an increase of 315 from the prior quarter.
This increase consisted of targeted investments in sales in customer service and in engineering.
Now let's turn to our guidance.
As a reminder guidance is provided on a non-GAAP basis except for revenue and share count and guidance includes the full quarter impact of net interest expense from our debt issuance.
We are confident in the long-term fundamentals that are driving the strong growth of our business.
The underlying strengths in the markets that we serve and the great innovation that we are bringing to market enables us to grow in our traditional markets while we expand into new markets and take share.
We have begun 2011 with a good first quarter and expect to continue our momentum in Q2 as we execute on our operating principles for the year and drive towards our long-term model.
The overall demand environment for both service provider and enterprise market looks healthy across all geographies.
However as I mentioned in my opening remarks there is some level of uncertainty related to Japan.
Based on conversations with our top customers there we believe there is some risk to revenue in Japan over the next couple of quarters.
We view this is as a timing issue rather than any sustained impact on longer term demand.
With that in mind for the second quarter of 2011 we are expecting revenue to range between $1 130 000 000 and $1 180 000 000.
Gross margins for the second quarter are expected to range between 66% and 68%.
Given our view that any impact to revenue for Japan will be a temporary one we will continue to invest in sales and marketing to capture the revenue opportunity ahead of us.
We therefore expect operating expenses to be lower as a percentage of revenue but increase on a dollar basis sequentially.
Operating margins for the second quarter is expected to be 22.5% plus or minus 50 basis points.
This would result in second quarter non-GAAP EPS of between $0.31 and $0.34 and assumes a slight increase in share count a tax rate of 26.5% and includes a dilutive impact of approximately $0.015 due to net interest expense from our debt issuance.
In summary I am pleased with our performance in Q1 of 2011.
As we look ahead our pipeline and demand indicators look healthy.
Our product portfolio has never been stronger.
And we are focused on continuing our momentum across all markets and product sets.
I want to thank our fantastic employees for their continued dedication to innovation and our growth agenda.
And with that I'll hand it over to the operator for questions.
Operator can you give the instructions for the Q&amp;A segment please? [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from John Slack with Citigroup.
Great.
Thank a lot guys.
Really impressive on the MX 3D the ramp there.
I'm wondering if you could maybe quantify or have any visibility into the what percent of the MX 3D volumes are going into competitive displacements.
Or what percent are just pick replacements in new existing MX chassis? Yes thanks for the question John.
This is Kevin.
We don't have the mix of percentage of what MX 3D is going in for existing MX installs versus competitive replacements.
But I can say that we are securing design wins that are competitive design wins.
And so there certainly is an element of us winning a new business because of the MX 3D.
I just can't quantify it for you.
The next question is from George Notter with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Thanks very much guys.
My question has to do with the Japan impact.
I appreciate the commentary about the mixture of business coming from Japan.
But I guess I was wondering if I could get a sense for how much impact in revenue terms do you think you might be experiencing here in Q2 and then in Q3 going forward.
You think it's half of your Japanese business or 1/3 of it 3/4? I mean any framework for it would be great.
Yes.
So in our guidance as I've said we've contemplated the risk to the Japan business.
In any one quarter our revenues vary between 5% and 8% of our total revenue.
At the low end of guidance that percentage is far less than that forward guidance that I've put out there.
So it does contemplate a significant pause in the business for Q2.
The next question is from Brent Bracelin with Pacific Crest.
Inc.</strong> Thank you.
From a high-level perspective a big change here as -- in the service provider side it looks like the highest growth rate in serv provider in two-plus years first time in two years serv provider growth is actually up pace the enterprise business.
My question goes back to the first question around share gains.
How much of the improvement in serv provider would you attribute to Edge share gains your iVox your adding some Tier 2s Tier 3s versus an improvement in the overall health of the serv provider market as a whole? Yes.
So in terms of what we're seeing on the macroenvironment with the service provider we were actually quite pleased with our business in the first quarter in service provider up 25% year-over-year.
We are actually seeing good design wins across the board in all three geographies in the Edge in that ethernet services Edge and the network services Edge.
We're also seeing it with content service provider and cable companies as well.
And we're -- and they are design wins.
And we're actually starting to see some of that obviously translate to revenue given the health of the business in the quarter.
We're also seeing design wins in the core and also in security.
We have design wins with the high end SRX in geographies in all three geographies around the world in all three product areas.
So we are pleased with the momentum in the service provider business.
Yes just -- I'll just add to Robyn's comments Brent.
I think certainly we're seeing market expansion of routing and service providers.
And in many cases where service providers are focused on implementing mobile backhaul solution that's been putting bringing more traffic and more demand into the Edge and aggregation where the MX 3D plays in a very strong way.
So part of that is market expansion.
Certainly part of that is the fact that we've broadened the customer base.
And so we're selling now into more customers.
And then certainly I think there's an element of it that is related to competitive design wins that we've been able to secure.
And unfortunately I can't quantify each of those mixes for you.
But I think there's an element of all three of those factors at play here.
The next question is from Simona Jankowski with Goldman Sachs.
Thank you so much.
I wanted to follow up a little bit in more detail on both the EX and the SRX which seemed to disappoint this quarter.
And you did give us a reason there on the EX as far as the pause ahead of the new product there.
When we think about how that comes back into Q2 should we think of growth resuming off of the new lower base of Q1? Or would you think that you go back to your original trajectory? In other words you kind of make up some of that hole and benefit from the pent-up demand which will put you maybe more in the mid-100? And then on the SRX I don't think or maybe I missed it but what was the reason for the decline there again? So let me talk about the SRX first and then we'll cover the EX as well.
So on the SRX side in SLT in general we saw a good enterprise growth for Q1.
It was higher than the overall enterprise growth which was 13% for the quarter and that actually sort of continued the momentum that we have there.
The decline quarter-over-quarter was actually on the service provider side.
So many of the deployments that we won early in the cycle of SRX particularly high-end SRX are nearing their completion in terms of deployment.
We had new design wins that are -- was about to be deployed here but they weren't being deployed in a large way in Q1.
So that was the reason for the decline in quarter-over-quarter SRX.
On the EX side we're very happy with the year-over-year growth that we had of 25%.
And I think that's the way of looking at it as you move forward here that year-over-year we expect to have good revenue growth including the QFX products as well.
Yes.
I'll just add to that Simona.
I think that -- what we'll see how Q2 unfolds.
But certainly there's been very high level of customer interest in QFabric starting at our launch event.
And I think in many of the workshops sessions that we're doing with some of our largest partners the customer attended at those workshops is what they would characterize as standing room only.
And so my experience is that when you introduce a new technology and new architecture like that and customers have a high level of interest in it certainly there may be some implications near term on existing products that as they evaluate we get those design wins.
So key for us is to secure design wins for QFabric.
And the speed at which we secure those design wins and now that we're shipping the QFX 3500 we have a solution for customers that is the on ramp to fabric.
And with the QFabric Interconnect and Director in Q3 I certainly think that's also an element of the equation that we should see that kick in in Q3 as well.
So we're going to have to see.
But certainly we have big aspirations in the growth agenda that we're driving in switching and QFabric plus our EX Switch business plus our wireless LAN through the acquisition of Trapeze are all elements of that.
Our next question is from Brian Marshall with Gleacher &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> This is Stephen Patel for Brian Marshall.
Can you talk more about the customer feedback you've had on the Converged Supercore architecture? Or obviously collapsing the optical and packet layers is good for service provider costs.
But does Juniper help the optical know how to fully integrate and deliver on the approach? Yes.
Well certainly we appreciate your question Steven.
And your question on customer -- kind of two questions all parsed there.
Customer feedback or reaction I think to what we introduced with the Converged Supercore has been very strong.
Certainly those service providers whether they're content service providers or wireless/wireline service providers when you look at the core of their networks this is a very interesting architecture and a very interesting technology.
And so I think that customer action to this in response to this has been very positive very favorable in the target set of customers that we think this is applicable for.
Now certainly we've been doing R&amp;D and working on this architecture this product for sometime.
So we have hired and acquired optical expertise and optical intellectual property with a focus on the element of optical that we refer to as the optoelectronics which is right on the boundary of where optical is translated into electronics and is right on that boundary of what we believe create unique value for customers by blending that with the MPLS switching.
So I'm very confident in our R&amp;D execution around this.
We've been very focused on this for some time in building skills capabilities and intellectual property.
And we're very optimistic about the customer early reaction.
Thanks for your question.
The next question is from Tal Liani with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
I have a question.
It's about the guidance for next quarter and also for the year perhaps.
Robyn you say that there is a risk in Japan but the numbers you gave are quite positive.
Even if I take your low-end estimates for the quarter it's only 1% increase sequentially versus last year or kind of normally about 3% 4%.
So it's not that low.
And the question is how much risk do you see in Japan beyond your numbers? What's Japan exposure? If you can give us a little bit more details about it.
Second related to the same topic is Kevin your allies say recently you said that you think you could grow into 20% this year.
Given that you grew about 16% last year if I remove the accounting impact and given that we have some Japan here do you think you need to update this after this quarter after what just happened? Yes.
Let me talk about guidance for a minute.
In terms of the midpoint of the guidance range what we're expecting is just under a 5% sequential increase which is not atypical for the first to second quarter.
It was slightly stronger than that last year in terms of first to second quarter growth.
But that's what we are expecting at the midpoint.
At the higher end we expect service providers to keep skin slightly higher than at the midpoint.
So that would be the delta between midpoint and higher end.
And obviously enterprise to grow in the low to mid-teens in terms of the midpoint or maybe even slightly higher at the high end of that equation.
At the lower end -- from the midpoint to the low end basically all of that is or the majority of that delta is a direct result of what we see in terms of variability for Japan.
And as I said before Japan typically is about 5% to 8% of the quarter's revenue.
And for the first quarter we saw strong growth year-over-year and sequentially in Japan as we were deploying product in our service provider in particular but also in enterprise.
So we have modeled or we've guided the low end to reduce that percentage from 5% to a much lower number.
So the risk is fully accounted for or baked in at that lower end.
[Audio Gap] about the annual side? On the annual side? So we -- obviously we've talked about our model in terms of 20% or higher for revenue growth.
And we were at 21% for the first quarter at the high end of guidance it gets again very close to 21% midpoint is about 18.3% year-over-year growth.
So in terms of our full year expectations we believe that revenue will be in line with our long-term model.
The next question is from Jeff Kvaal with Barclays Capital.
Yes.
Thanks very much.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the book-to-bill and what's driving that below 1.
If it's Japan is it possible to give us a book-to-bill number excluding the Japan? And federal obviously was also a question that had come up through the quarter.
So any thoughts on that would be helpful too.
Yes.
Thanks for your question Jeff.
In terms of the book-to-bill it was very slightly below 1.
In fact the number was 0.96:1.
So I wanted to make sure you knew it was just slightly lower than 1.
That is not atypical for the first quarter.
Last year if you remember it was around the same sort of number.
So -- and as I said in my prepared remarks our deferred revenue total deferred revenues at record high the product backlog as well as the product deferred revenue are at very healthy levels.
So there was very minimal impact to Japan or limited impact to Japan overall for the quarter and including the backlog.
The next question is form Rod Hall with JP Morgan.
A couple of questions for you quickly.
One is there's been a lot of talk about pricing aggression in the enterprise and switching.
And I just wonder if you guys could just let us know what you're seeing out there in that market.
And also I'd be very curious to know what your own strategy is in coping with that kind of pricing aggression.
Do you want to protect share in the enterprise? Are you willing to ease some share? Can you just kind of walk us through how you're thinking about that whole situation? Yes.
Thanks for your question.
The way -- and I'll interpret in your question the pricing -- what's happening with pricing of ethernet switching in the enterprise.
And here's how we see this and here's how I think about it.
I think there are two profit pools within ethernet switching in the enterprise.
I think there's one profit pool that I'll characterize as lower end switching fewer features more related to branch campus that is probably much more prone to pricing pressures and of course towards more of a commoditization and which will put downward pressure on that aspect of the pricing pool in ethernet switching.
And then there's a second profit pool that is related to a higher end more highly differentiated scenarios that typically for the most part are data center related.
And strategically we are focused on the profit pools that are related to areas that are more highly differentiated that are more data center oriented which is why we invest in R&amp;D to innovate to build something like QFabric.
I don't anticipate that the competitive landscape for QFabric is going to be one that is focused on the price of the capital.
It's going to be more around the value that's delivered to the customer in these cloud computing centers.
So for us we have an opportunity to grow a significant amount of market share and a portion of the profit pool that I still think is highly differentiated and able to maintain margins.
And yet I think if you look at the whole industry there will be a set of competitors that I think are focused on the other aspect of the profit pool and there'll be pricing pressure there.
So certainly we do see pricing pressure in the areas of switching that is lower end lower function but not -- certainly not as much when you get into the higher end data center scenarios that we're focused on.
With a question I think Jeff Kvaal asked before that I didn't answer which was around federal impact in the quarter.
So in my prepared remarks I talked about the federal business in relation to enterprise growth rate being moderated at 13%.
And that was particularly the case on the routing side.
So in Q1 of last year we had a good piece of federal business in routing in the Americas.
What we've seen this year is as you know we had some good business in routing last quarter Q4 and not so much in the Q1 time frame.
So it's really a timing issue between Q4 and Q1.
And so that was my comment as it pertains to federal around the routing side.
And so routing and enterprise in total grew 3% year-over-year and that was impacted by federal routing.
The next question is from Ehud Gelblum with Morgan Stanley.
It's actually Kim Watkins in for Ehud today.
I just had two questions around margins.
First on gross margin it looks like service provider excuse me services gross margins took another step down this quarter.
I think last quarter you had invested in some spares.
In this quarter it was headcount.
I have -- we've reached a low water mark at this point.
And should we expect that to go down again or flat or up? And then secondly operating margin the target for the year has been 25% or more.
We're clearly under that level in the first half of the year.
I just want to take your temperature on the confidence in seeing an increase pretty substantial increase for the second half of the year.
And if you could just highlight then the drivers for that that would be helpful.
Yes.
In terms of services gross margins you're right.
Last quarter we did have spares investments.
We did have some spares investments this quarter but less than last quarter.
We have been adding headcount in services on the support side continuously.
But in this quarter we also have been adding some professional services what we call architecture headcount that actually will -- are working with the sales team to win some of these design wins particularly around new products and the new architectures that we're leading with in the new product areas.
And so in terms of the services margin yes it's historically have been a much higher gross margin as I mentioned in my prepared remarks.
We do expect it to improve from here in terms of the services margin modestly by the end of the year in terms of that improvement.
In terms of operating margins we've been very clear.
We are focused on expanding operating margins for the full fiscal year of 2011 over the operating margins for 2010.
So we finished the full year for 2010 at 24%.
And so our commitment is to be focused on actually delivering expansion over and above the 24%.
The next question is from Jason Ader with William Blair.
Yes.
Thank you.
Hey guys I wanted to ask on the enterprise business.
I think your long-term guidance there was something like 25%.
Is that correct Robyn? Yes between 25% and 30% in the enterprise.
Okay.
And this quarter it was up 13% year-over-year.
And obviously you've mentioned the EX pause.
But I mean that's way below the long-term guidance.
What's going to get it back to the 25% to 30%? And what would the specific catalysts that we should think about over the next few quarters? Yes.
In terms of enterprise 25% to 30% that is the model that we've had out there in terms of driving to 20% or higher.
And we're still committed to that.
If you look at the factors in the quarter there are some -- there's typical seasonality in the first quarter in terms of Q4 to Q1.
The total percentage increase year-over-year was 13% in terms of enterprise.
And it was 25% on the -- sorry 21% on the switching line up and 15% on the security area.
What actually dragged the average down for the quarter was the routing.
And as I mentioned before that was influenced by the timing of our federal enterprise wins.
We actually had a big win in the Q4 time frame which we talked about last quarter.
So that was not in this quarter's revenue.
But in terms of the long-term growth rates we're absolutely focused on achieving that 25% to 30%.
Yes.
But the seasonality shouldn't factor in to the year-over-year correct? I mean that's why it's year-over-year.
Yes.
That's true.
But as I said in terms of the enterprise routing that isn't a year-over-year factor.
It only grew 3% year-over-year.
If you take that out the average was higher than the 13% for enterprise.
It was closer to 15% to 16% in terms of total.
Actually it's a little bit higher than that maybe even 7% 8% in terms of year-over-year enterprise growth between switching and security.
In terms of the switching side 21% is lower than we've been growing.
But I think that's explained by the pause that we did see in terms of the QFX launch.
The next question is from Paul Silverstein with Crédit Suisse.
Thank you.
Robyn maybe I missed it.
But just a couple of explanations of some stuff you said before.
Enterprise routing how big a piece of your businesses is that? We haven't called the number out.
But just in terms of growth rate what I talked about was the year-over-year growth rate.
The next question is from Jayson Noland with Robert Baird.
I wanted to ask about QFabric given you've had some reaction from the field and it sounds positive.
I wonder about if you could differentiate given the reaction to the channel.
It just doesn't seem like it's as much of a channel product as EX and maybe something more high end but if you could talk about that a little bit please? Yes.
Thanks for the great question Jayson.
I participated in the Americas Partner Summit that was held last week with our field team and our partners from the Americas.
And so that's one way that I had to gauge that.
And certainly with our broad base of partners there's a subset of those partners who are very focused on data center scenarios and selling into the data center.
And I think it's that set of partners that have been successful selling EX switching into the data center will also be successful selling QFabric into the data center.
And then certainly at our strategic alliances' level the relationships that we have with IBM and with Dell I think those continue to progress.
And I think they certainly have a degree of interest as well in what we're doing together.
So I think it will be a subset of our broad partner base that's focused on data centers scenarios and then our large partners that we continue to work with.
The next question is from Paul Mansky with Canaccord Genuity.
Yes.
Thanks for taking my question.
There's been a number of questions on...
[Technical Difficulty] Thanks for the question.
A number of questions on the call here around the enterprise side.
Obviously there's some discomfort on the deceleration.
You did offer some qualifiers there.
But I -- certainly I and I think a number of my peers have heard about possibly higher than optimal turnover still in the enterprise sales force.
And specifically for you Kevin can you talk about whether or not that is a concern of yours and if so what you're doing from an incentivization perspective? And then finally maybe what you view as the expected time to productivity on new hires? Yes.
That's a great question Paul thanks.
Look in terms of some turnover in our field sales force I'll characterize two pieces of it.
One is in 2010 I think there was some turnover earlier in the year and some of that was not desirable turnover.
I think there were some things in our compensation plans in 2010 that John Morris and the sales team took some action on and made some changes going into 2011.
So there's some aspect of that that I think occurred in 2010.
As we went into 2011 though I feel very good about the incentive structure that we had.
We held a global sales conference brought our target field sales force together.
I had a chance to interact with a lot of them and they were pretty jazzed up about the compensation incentive plans that we have in 2011.
So any issues that I think we experienced in 2010 in that regard were addressed as we went into 2011.
The second part of it is I think certainly as we are upping our game in enterprise selling there are certain aspect of transitions that we are making and we're being intentional about.
And certainly there's a cost whenever you make change in the field.
But we believe that for us to raise our game and really drive towards our aspirations we've been making some changes in the theater positions and some other things that we think are enabling us or positioning us to fulfill those aspirations.
So there's that aspect of the changes that have been made as well.
So some of it I think in 2010 was not necessarily planned or desirable.
But I think we corrected that.
And as we go into 2011 I think much of what you are seeing is we're being very thoughtful and disciplined and intentional about how we're sequencing those changes.
Thanks for the question.
Thank you.
That does conclude today's conference call.
On behalf of the management team here at Juniper we very much appreciate your participation in the call today and look forward to speaking with you again soon.
Thank you.
This concludes the teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Juniper Networks Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Kathleen Nemeth Vice President of Investor Relations for Juniper Networks.
Thank you Ms.
Nemeth you may now begin.
Thank you operator.
Good afternoon and thank you everyone for joining us today.
Here on the call today are Kevin Johnson Chief Executive Officer; and Robyn Denholm Chief Financial Officer.
Please remember when listening to today's call that  statements made during this call concerning Juniper's business outlook economic and market outlooks future financial operating results and overall future prospects are forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors including economic conditions generally or in the networking industry changes in overall technology spending the network capacity requirements of service providers the timing of orders and shipments manufacturing and supply chain constraints variation in the mix of products sold customer perception and acceptance of our products litigation and other factors listed in our most recent report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC.
All statements made during this call are made only as of today.
Juniper undertakes no obligation to update the information in this conference call in the event facts or circumstances subsequently change after the date of this call.
In discussing the financial results today Robyn will first present results on a GAAP basis and for purposes of today's discussion will also review non-GAAP results.
For important commentary on why the management team considers non-GAAP information a useful view of the company's financial results please consult our 8-K filed with the SEC today.
For the detailed reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP results please see today's press release.
In general non-GAAP results exclude certain non-recurring charges amortization of purchased intangibles and other acquisition-related charges and expenses related to stock-based compensation.
On today's call Robyn will also be providing forward-looking guidance.
As a reminder guidance is provided on a non-GAAP basis other than that with respect to revenue and share count.
All guidance is forward-looking and actual results may vary for the reasons I noted earlier.
GAAP guidance measures are not available on a forward-looking basis due to the high variability and low visibility with respect to certain charges which are excluded from the non-GAAP guidance estimates.
Please note that today's call is scheduled to last for one hour and please limit your questions to one per firm.
With that I will now turn the call over to Kevin.
Thank you Kathleen and welcome everyone.
For the first half of 2011 Juniper has delivered strong year-on-year growth of 18% with solid year-on-year growth of 15% in the June quarter.
And though it did fall short of our expectations we delivered EPS at the low end of our guidance range.
There were many highlights in the quarter.
Our service provider business grew 18% year-on-year.
We saw solid growth in our routing and switching lineup.
Our Enterprise business grew 9% sequentially even with the decline in our SLT business.
We continue to focus on the market trends at the mobile Internet and cloud computing.
And during today's discussion I'll comment on the current environment and why we are cautious about the second half yet very optimistic about 2012 and beyond.
I will also provide an update on key strategic innovation projects design win momentum and an organizational announcement we made yesterday.
In early June I spoke at an investor conference and commented on some macro signals that we were seeing in the market.
With continued news coverage of topics including the sovereign debt situation in Europe rising unemployment in the U.S.
softness in consumer confidence the impact of the disaster in Japan and lower GDP expectations in many parts of the world it is evident that people are trying to digest the macroeconomic signals and understand what impact they are having on the buying patterns of customers.
These macro signals don't change the long-term demand equation for networking.
The market trends of mobile Internet and cloud computing are strong and continue to drive demand.
On a global basis more people and businesses are connecting to the network and consuming more digital content.
These market trends are consistent and are core to our growth agenda.
Having delivered 18% year-on-year growth through the first half I want to highlight some factors that make us cautious about the second half yet optimistic as we enter 2012.
As we look to the second half there are 4 reasons to be cautious.
First service provider CapEx guidance for the second half is lower than historical seasonal patterns.
The historical seasonal pattern for Tier 1 U.S.
service provider CapEx has been 43% to 45% invested in the first half and 55% to 57% invested in the second half.
Tier 1 service providers in the U.S.
have guided 2011 CapEx at approximately 50% of spending in the first half and 50% in the second half with a forecasted year-on-year growth of approximately 1%.
This is a change to historical pattern.
We see similar trends with the top 15 service providers globally.
Second the macroeconomic signals may impact enterprise and public sector spending near term.
As governments and certain sectors of the enterprise look to reduce spending there is a risk that this will impact IT budgets.
Third as Japan continues to recover from the March 11 disaster there are questions on how quickly the focus will shift to capital investments in new projects.
In our June quarter we saw revenue from Japan decline by 24% from a year ago.
Fourth we had 2 very large customer deployments at the SRX a year ago which created some lumpiness in growth for our SLT business.
We're building a pipeline of new design wins to get SLT back on a growth path.
There are also several reasons why we are optimistic as we enter the second half and set up for 2012.
First the market trends of mobile Internet and cloud computing are intact.
The continued growth of smartphones tablets and connected devices consuming more digital content including video is creating demand for network innovation.
Service providers and enterprise customers continue to focus on large virtualized data centers to deliver both private and public cloud computing and we are focused on the right market trends.
Second our innovation agenda is on a path to release a phenomenal wave of new products.
During the quarter QFabric successfully completed several proof-of-concept tests with key customers.
We have now entered the formal beta process with 5 customers up and running the end-to-end QFabric system on premise.
We have also secured our first significant QFabric design win and we are on track to release QFabric sometime around the end of this quarter.
In addition our T4000 core router is on track to release later this year.
This is a significant step forward in our core routing platform and we have already secured at least 4 major design wins for the T4000.
The PTX Converged Supercore has experienced very positive response from customers.
We are now in the beta process with 6 customers and have already secured our first design win.
The PTX is expected to release in Q1 of 2012.
During the quarter we also released the MobileNext broadband gateway offering which includes our GGSN an evolved packet core gateway running on the MX 3D.
We have a growing pipeline of opportunities traction with customer trials and we secured our first design win.
We have additional features that are being developed on the MobileNext product roadmap.
We're very optimistic about the direction of the product family.
Third the number and size of design wins and partner buying shares are going.
We have a portfolio of design wins in both service provider and enterprise that represent strategic projects that will unfold over the next 24 months.
Robyn will share a bit more on the implications of these design wins in her comments.
In addition to the examples I just provided we have also secured several key Junos Pulse design wins that will expand our software footprint and contribute to our growth agenda.
With products like QFabric Converged Supercore T4000 and MobileNext coming to market we're gaining more attention and mind share from both our partners and our customers.
Fourth growth in our routing and switching platforms.
This quarter switching revenue grew 33% year-on-year and routing revenue grew 21% year-on-year.
Growing these core businesses is creating momentum ahead of new product introductions which sets us up well for the future.
With 18% year-on-year growth through the first half of this year we continue to drive hard against our multiyear growth agenda.
We are aware of the macro signals that our customers see yet we are optimistic about our position going into 2012.
We are making very good progress on the strategic innovation agenda.
We are generating strong customer interest in securing key design wins.
We also announced some key management changes yesterday in alignment with our strategy.
In February this year we aligned our systems division under the leadership of Stefan Dyckerhoff.
Yesterday we announced the creation of the software division which will be led by Bob Muglia.
Bob joins Juniper from Microsoft where he was most recently the president of the server tools division.
Stefan leading the systems division and Bob leading software division enables us to drive our innovation strategy to expand both our systems portfolio and to move up the stack with software.
In addition we made some tuning of executive assignments with Gerri Elliott now leading sales John Morris leading strategic alliances and Mark Bauhaus leading services.
These changes leverage the unique talent of each of our executives in alignment with our strategic objectives.
In summary we delivered year-on-year growth of 15% in the second quarter and an 18% growth for the first half.
We are cautious about the second half yet very optimistic about our position going into 2012.
We look to grow faster than the market in 2011 while strengthening the innovation portfolio as we set up for 2012.
I'll now hand off to Robyn.
Thank you Kevin and good afternoon everyone.
In the June quarter we delivered 2% sequential and 15% year-over-year revenue growth which was short of our expectations.
Through the collective efforts of our employees we diligently controlled expenses and posted EPS at the low end of our expectations.
At a high level our business in the second quarter was impacted by the following factors: First the macroeconomic environment is not improving at the pace we expected when we outlined our operating principles for the year.
Second demand for our SLT products was lower than we expected.
Third demand from service provider customers while strong was not as robust as we anticipated.
And fourth and as expected we saw some impact from Japan.
Looking at the demand metrics for the quarter book to bill came in above the first quarter but slightly under 1 at 0.98.
This was due primarily to weaker than expected service provider bookings.
Total deferred revenue decreased by $20 million to $930 million.
This decrease was evenly split between services and products.
Whilst these metrics point to continued difficult conditions in the near term we had many design wins this quarter some of which will start deployment late in the fiscal year.
Total deferred revenue is up over 21% year-over-year.
We are confident that our strategy and our solutions portfolio position us well going forward.
We will continue to aggressively control expenses while preserving the investments that support our long-term growth agenda.
Coupled with a strong focus on execution across our business operation we believe this is the right approach to properly address the current environment.
Now a review of the numbers.
Total revenue for the second quarter was $1 121 000 000 up 2% sequentially and 15% year-over-year.
As I mentioned earlier revenue growth was below our expectations due to the relative weakness in enterprise security demand and lower than expected demand from our U.S.
service providers.
This was partially offset by strength in enterprise switching including our wireless LAN products and routing.
In the quarter there were no customers who accounted for more than 10% of total revenue.
For the second quarter GAAP diluted earnings per share were $0.21 and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share were $0.31.
Both results were an outcome of the combination of revenue and gross margins being lower than expected and this was offset slightly by prudent OpEx controls.
Included in both the GAAP and the non-GAAP diluted earnings per share for the quarter is a $0.02 dilutive impact from debt-related net interest expense.
Now let me provide you with some color on revenue by region business segment and market.
In the second quarter the Americas were approximately 52% of total revenue EMEA was 29% and APAC was 19%.
Americas revenue was roughly flat with the first quarter as service provider softness was offset by strength in enterprise routing and switching.
On a year-over-year basis Americas was up 17%.
EMEA revenue was up 10% sequentially with particular strength this quarter in Spain and Russia and up 14% year-over-year.
Design wins in routing earlier in the year are beginning to gain traction and add to our results.
In APAC revenue declined 3% sequentially but rose 9% year-over-year.
The sequential decline was primarily due to Japan which declined 34% sequentially and 24% year-over-year.
However we did see strength in China and Korea during the quarter.
Now looking at revenue by segment infrastructure revenue was $884 million 3% higher than the first quarter and up 23% year-over-year.
Within the segment total router revenue was $762 million up 2% sequentially and 21% year-over-year.
This was driven by strength in Edge offset by some softness in core.
Total MX product revenue was $279 million slightly below Q1 but up 87% year-over-year.
T Series was down sequentially in the quarter as customers await our T4000 and PTX products.
Our T4000 products as Kevin mentioned are on track to begin shipping late this year and we've increased the number of PTX beta trials due to strong customer interest.
Total switch revenue was $122 million up 16% sequentially and 33% year-over-year.
EX product revenue was $104 million up 15% sequentially and 18% year-over-year.
This was driven by strong sequential growth of the EX42 [EX42000] and EX4500 products.
Wireless LAN product revenue was $12 million up 35% sequentially.
Moving on to the SLT segment.
Revenue for the quarter was $237 million a 4% decline from the first quarter and an 8% year-over-year decline.
We saw sequential and year-over-year growth in the branch SRX but saw softness in enterprise security primarily in the financial services sector.
The year-over-year decline was primarily attributable to high-end firewall and high-end SRX product.
SRX products revenue in total was $62 million up $1 million from the first quarter and this was driven by the increase in our branch SRX product family.
Year-over-year SRX declined $13 million primarily due to lower service provider revenue.
This quarter we had good design wins with both Media Flow and Pulse products.
We're seeing solid traction with customers and won a significant multiyear Pulse deal and a Media Flow deal with a major U.S.
Tier 1 service provider.
Our global pipeline is strong.
We expect to see further wins in upcoming quarters and revenues later in the year as the deployments of these design wins start to roll out.
We continue to build momentum from our Trapeze SMobile Ankeen and Altor acquisitions.
As we integrate them into our solution offerings we are seeing good design wins that are contributing to our financial and strategic goals.
Looking more closely at the markets we address service provider revenue was $730 million down 2% sequentially due to the anticipated impact of Japan and lower than expected demand from our Americas service providers.
Service provider revenue increased 18% on a year-over-year basis due to broad strength in the Americas EMEA and APAC.
Enterprise revenue was $391 million up 9% sequentially as well as year-over-year.
This was due to strength in routing and switching and it was offset by weakness in SLT.
For the quarter service provider was 65% of total revenue and enterprise was 35% of total revenue.
Now moving on to our margins and operating expenses.
Non-GAAP gross margins declined to 65.6% which is below our guidance range.
This was due to unfavorable product and services margins.
Product gross margins were 68.1% of product revenue or 2.5 percentage points lower than the first quarter and about 2 percentage points lower versus a year ago.
Product margins was negatively impacted by mix due to the lower volumes of SLT and T Series products and also due to higher overhead costs.
Services gross margins were 55.7% down 1.8 points from the prior quarter and 3.6 points lower than the second quarter of the prior year.
Service margin performance was impacted by increased maintenance and support resources as well as increased professional services personnel dedicated to design wins and our large service provider customers.
Non-GAAP operating expenses for the second quarter were $493 million which was slightly lower than the first quarter and were favorably impacted by cost reduction measures including lower variable compensation.
Year-over-year operating expenses increased by 14%.
R&amp;D expenses were down 3% from the prior quarter.
The teams have controlled expenses very well as we continue to focus on getting the next wave of strategic products to market.
Sales and marketing expenses were 1% lower on a sequential basis.
However we continue to invest in building our sales force in order to enhance our go-to-market capability.
G&amp;A expenses were almost flat sequentially and were 6% lower than the 2010 second quarter.
Non-GAAP operating margin for the quarter was 21.6% down 70 basis points sequentially.
We remain agile in our ability to curtail spending in any given quarter enabling us to balance the short-term trends with the longer-term strategic needs of the business.
Looking at operating margins by segment infrastructure operating margin was 23.7% down 80 basis points compared to last quarter and down 150 basis points compared to the second quarter of last year.
Infrastructure operating margins were affected by lower gross margins and these were partially offset by lower operating expenses.
And as a reminder the Infrastructure segment includes routers switches MobileNext and QFabric.
SLT operating margin was 13.8% compared to 14.7% in the prior quarter and 20.4% in the second quarter of 2010.
Operating margins in SLT were impacted by lower revenue and lower gross margins due primarily to mix.
The GAAP tax rate was 26.5% for the quarter and the non-GAAP tax rate was 26.8% and both were consistent with our expectations.
Looking at the balance sheet.
We ended the quarter with total cash and investments of approximately $4.2 billion.
DSO was 39 days in the quarter compared to 38 days in the prior quarter and this was on strong collections.
Cash flow from operations was $318 million up substantially from the prior quarter.
This has benefited from the timing of cash collections as well as the refund relating to the timing of last year's R&amp;D tax credit.
We expect to continue our organizational focus on strong cash flow generation complemented by the prudent deployment of capital.
During the quarter we repurchased approximately 3.9 million shares at an average price of $38.94 per share or approximately $150 million.
Our weighted average shares on a diluted basis for the quarter were 546 million shares a decline of 2 million from the prior quarter.
CapEx totaled $62 million up $8 million from the first quarter as we continue to build out our corporate campus here in Sunnyvale.
Depreciation and amortization was approximately $42 million and consistent with prior quarters.
We ended the quarter with approximately 9 300 employees an increase of over 200 from the prior quarter.
While cognizant of the realities of the near-term environment we continued to move forward on the priority investments in sales customer service and engineering headcount.
Now let's discuss our guidance.
As a reminder guidance is provided on a non-GAAP basis except for revenue and share count.
As I highlighted in my opening comments we believe the long-term fundamentals of our business remain healthy.
However the economic recovery has not progressed as we anticipated at the beginning of the year and the near-term environment warrants a careful approach.
While we have many design wins in the first half of this year and our overall pipeline is healthy many of these opportunities will not begin deployment until late this year or early next year.
And as a result we are lowering our outlook for the full year.
Our guidance for the third quarter of 2011 is as follows: We're expecting revenues to range between $1 070 000 000 and $1 120 000 000.
Gross margins for the third quarter are expected to range between 65% and 67% which is slightly below our long-term range primarily due to product mix.
Operating margins for the third quarter are expected to be in the range of 19% to 21%.
We will continue to be diligent in our expense controls but we expect a slight increase in operating expenses for the third quarter.
This would result in third quarter non-GAAP EPS of between $0.26 and $0.30 per share and assumes a flat share count a tax rate of 27% and includes a dilutive impact of approximately $0.02 due to the net interest expense from our Q1 debt issuance.
Given the changes in the environment we discussed earlier the timing of design wins translating to revenue and the fact that we do not expect a recovery in demand from our customers in Japan until late in the fiscal year we expect revenue for the full year of 2011 to grow in the range of between 12% and 14%.
In summary while we're not satisfied with our Q2 performance we still generated solid year-over-year growth.
We took decisive actions to reduce expenses and we delivered good profitability.
We believe our strategy as well as our solutions portfolio continue to position us well for the future.
And I want to thank our fantastic employees for their dedication and hard work.
And with that I will hand it over to the operator for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Nikos Theodosopoulos from UBS.
I wanted to ask about the gross margin.
You gave some good color on how the mix impacted it but I wanted to go into that a little bit more.
On a sequential basis can you elaborate on what happened in the routing and switching components of gross margin? And if there were declines there are those kind of temporary or would you see them as reoccurring? Can you provide some insight? Yes Nikos.
In terms of the gross margin what we saw quarter-over-quarter in routing it was all to do with mix.
As I said in my prepared remarks we had a soft quarter in terms of T-Series for routing.
Having said that the overall routing quarter was relatively strong so we had a good edge quarter in routing.
The gross margins relative to their normal levels were quite high in their individual categories or quite reasonable in their individual categories.
In terms of switching there was no discernible difference in the gross margins for switching across the board.
They were within the normal range.
Our next question comes from Simona Jankowski from Goldman Sachs.
I just wanted to understand some of the commentary around weaker demand in U.S.
service providers.
And it sounds like that was related to core routing and also to SRX.
Why do you think of that weakness was related to the macro as opposed to your particular market share or design wins? And in particular it sounds like there's a pause ahead of the T4000 and PTX.
But if you haven't yet won the design wins for those 2 products within North America Tier 1 service providers then how do you know that the weakness in the core routers is not just a share loss there as opposed to either timing or macro? I guess I'll make a couple of comments.
First of all as the Tier 1 service providers have commented in their earnings calls a lot of their focus in their capital investments went into things like radio access networks cell towers and mobile backhaul.
And as they make those investments that then drives the traffic growth into the Edge and into the core.
So part of this as a little bit of timing on where it puts pressure on Edge and core which creates demand for us.
That's number one.
Number 2 we had in the SLT business a significant deployment of SRX high-end SRX with a large Tier 1 U.S.
service provider a year ago which created a very high comparable for the SLT business looking year-on-year.
And so that certainly had impact in our SLT growth.
And then number 3 the guidance that Tier 1 U.S.
service providers have given for second half capital expenditures starts to change the historical pattern of what we've seen over the last several years.
I think if you look at their first half actuals plus second half guidance I think it shows about a 1% year-on-year growth in total CapEx.
And it shows the distribution is about 50% in the first half and 50% invested in the second half.
And as a difference in the historical pattern of typically 43% to 45% in the first half and then back in second half of 55% to 57%.
So that's prompted us to be more cautious about the second half.
Yet as we commented we had a good Q2 growth of our Service Provider business at 18%.
Our next question comes from Ehud Gelblum from Morgan Stanley.
Robyn you said that full year guidance of 12% to 14% for the top line.
You've also spoken in the past about guidance in the operating margin line of being up this year over last year.
My guess is that's not really going to happen anymore.
But as you now see the world if you can give us a range on what operating margin looks like now under your new revenue assumption what kind of maybe a range? Is it 22% to 23%? Is it 20% to 21%? How does that work out for this full year? And then I noticed the MX was down which I couldn't quite put the MX into being down into the categories that you've put them in.
I mean you talked about them; I'm guessing maybe it was the U.S.
service provider weakness that caused the MX to be down.
But I'm wondering if you think that's a little bit more on the competition side now that Alcatel-Lucent's coming in with another Edge router? Or if you think it has more to do with these CapEx types of issues you were talking about? Yes so in terms of the full year at 12% to 14% I think the factors that we've talked about in terms of being cautious in the near term all apply.
In terms of the full year operating margin guidance our operating principle was that we would expand operating margin for the full fiscal year.
We do not believe that that will happen now.
So the answer to that is we will not expand operating margins for the full fiscal year.
In terms of the third quarter I gave you the range of 19% to 21%.
We expect improvement in the fourth quarter from that point and we'll give you more color on that as we move forward here.
In terms of the MX we're very confident with our MX portfolio.
We know the product is very competitive out there.
We've got lots of design wins some of which have not started to deploy yet and the quarter-over-quarter sequential was relatively modest in terms of the decline.
So I put that more down to timing of the deployments that we still have in terms of the commencement of those starting as we move forward throughout the year.
Just to add to that I think year-on-year the MX growth is something like 83% -- 87% Robyn says.
So we've seen MX growth year-on-year 87%.
The other comment I would add Ehud is that in our partnership with Ericsson with Ericsson's GGSN that runs on our M Series we saw a very strong quarter of our M Series in the partnership with Ericsson.
And we view that as a positive thing and that's why I think we've seen good growth on the Edge market overall.
Our next question comes from Mark Sue from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> Maybe if you can talk about linearity and linearity going forward are you starting to see longer evaluation cycles? Are deal sizes getting smaller? Is the increased competition delaying some closure rates and just kind of dynamics on how the business is now being done as versus before? And Robyn I don't think we got a sense of kind of your long-term operating margin targets.
Let me take the first one and then I'll hand off to Robyn Mark.
First of all in terms of changes in sort of the selling dynamic we're not seeing longer sales cycles.
We've got -- in many of these large projects they are a long sale cycle anyway and I don't see that being extended.
I do see that as part of these design wins certainly several of these design wins include products that are on the roadmap to ship.
For example in the area of the PTX the design wins around PTX typically have the combination of the PTX plus T Series plus the MX and so it's an architectural solution.
And so part of that is getting to the point where we're -- you're shipping the T4000 shipping the PTX.
But I view that as positive because we are solving customer problems in very unique ways.
So I don't see the sales cycle being elongated.
I see that some of these design wins have the products that are in the roadmap to ship here over next couple of quarters.
And so that might have some implications on how our timing of when these big deployments hit.
The one thing that we did observe in Q2 certainly at the very end of the quarter we had line of sight to a set of opportunities that we felt some percentage of those would close in Q2.
And a portion certainly there was a number of those opportunities that did not close in Q2 but they did close very early a percentage closed -- a high percentage closed very early in Q3 which is a signal to me that customers are being very aware of the macro situation and deciding which side of the quarterly boundary they want to land their capital expenditures on.
And certainly it's nowhere near extreme as it was in 2009 but I saw similar types of behavior in 2009 and I saw a little bit of that in Q2.
Robyn I'll let you comment on the second question.
Yes so on the operating margin obviously for the full fiscal year of 2011 we don't think we will achieve our operating principle of expanding the operating margins for the full year.
Having said that we believe that 25% in terms of the operating margin or higher is definitely still the target from a long-term perspective.
And there are many things that we're optimistic about in terms of revenue growth.
I think if you sit back we're focused on driving revenue growth which then yields the 25% operating margins that we've been targeting the company at.
And many of those products and many of those solution sets are nearing coming to market.
So we feel very good about that.
Our next question comes from John Marchetti from Cowen and Company.
LLC</strong> I just wanted to ask Robyn in terms of sort of the full year guidance that you gave of the 12% to 24% -- excuse me the 12% to 14% that obviously implies a fairly significant quarter-over-quarter ramp as we go into 4Q.
Just curious and sort of embedded in that guide how much is related to the design wins that you're referring to? How much is related to Japan coming back? And how much is just related sort of to the overall macro piece improving as we get a little bit further into the year? In terms of the 12% to 14% at the midpoint of guidance at 13% we are expecting many of the -- well a lot of the design wins that I talked about starting in the last part of the year or later in the year to commence deployment in the fourth quarter.
We're not expecting a return to demand in Japan to normal levels in the fourth quarter.
We think that's more likely the first part of next year.
So it's really a commencement of the design wins that we have as well as switching growth as we move forward as well.
Our next question comes from Ittai Kidron from Oppenheimer &amp; Co.
I did want to follow up on that.
Robyn if you look at the midpoint of your September quarter it is sequentially down from June.
Can you give us some color as to what product areas you expect would be declining sequentially from June to September versus rising? And as we think into December quarter also where do you expect most of the recovery to happen versus still seeing some challenges? So Ittai I think in terms of routing we are expecting a low single-digit decline in routing overall primarily the service provider sector there as these design wins still are not coming to fruition in terms of the timing of those.
We expect most of those to happen in the fourth quarter as I've sort of alluded to before.
So sequentially down low single digits for routing.
Enterprise growth primarily all related to switching we expect flat to slightly down in terms of SLT for the third quarter in enterprise.
And so that actually at the midpoint has us down at 2% quarter-over-quarter.
Our next question comes from Brian Marshall from Gleacher &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Just a follow-up on the 2 previous questions I'm calculating 19% implied sequential guidance for the December quarter.
I think over the last 5 years your average for sequential growth in December has been about 8% so obviously a pretty big bump up there.
Can you talk a little bit about some of the key factors within service providers as well as enterprise which are really going to drive that revenue to get it up to that level? And kind of what gives you the confidence around that? I think if you look at the midpoint of guidance 12% to 14% obviously the midpoint is 13%.
And at the midpoint for the third quarter it's a sequential 2% decline.
So the fourth quarter we have the midpoint at 18% quarter-over-quarter increase.
If you look at last year we actually did about 18.5%.
So our sequential increase from third quarter to fourth quarter over the last few years has been in that sort of range of 18% to 20%.
And the factors that will influence that is routing deployments in the fourth quarter as well as enterprise revenue growth in switching between the third and fourth quarter as well.
Our next question comes from Tal Liani from of America Merrill Lynch.
Just a follow-up before just a clarification.
Last year I know you just quoted the numbers for last year 4Q sequential growth but it included an accounting change.
And if we remove the accounting change the growth was 12%.
Tal the accounting change was a year ago.
It was the beginning of Q1 of 2010.
Right but you provided in the K you provided the accounting change for each and every quarter and there was a major increase in the accounting impact in the fourth quarter.
It was basically half of the annual change.
So if I remove the accounting change from both 3Q and 4Q and recalculate the growth I'm getting -- I just don't want to apply growth to the accounting.
I'm getting a much lower growth.
And the question here is whether on one hand 3Q is down sequentially.
On the other hand which is abnormal kind of on the other hand 4Q seems to be above normal trends.
Does it mean that there were some push-outs or something that leads you to believe that fourth quarter should in addition to regular seasonality should compensate for the decline in 3Q.
That was my question.
So I think at a high level the first thing in terms of the third quarter we do view that as a sideways-to-down quarter in terms of revenue from the second quarter.
And that's not our normal seasonal pattern as Kevin mentioned before.
Normally we have a sequential increase.
And so there is some timing related to design wins deploying later in the year.
I would actually go back and have a look at the calculations the year-over-year growth because the third quarter last year there is no impact from the accounting.
The accounting actually started at the beginning of the fiscal year.
So all the way through last year there were new deals that were accounted under the new revenue recognition.
They're not old deals that have changed their accounting treatment.
So they were new deals in the third quarter.
So the real way to look at year-over-year growth for the third to fourth quarter for last year is 18.5%.
Our next question comes from Simon Leopold from Morgan Keegan &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> I wanted to see if you could touch on your OEM partnerships in particular IBM and Dell and if you could give us a little bit of color on your thoughts regarding Dell specifically given their plan to acquire an Ethernet switch vendor.
First of all the partnerships we have with our alliance partners continue to grow and continue to do well.
And that includes Nokia Siemens Networks Ericsson IBM and Dell.
And certainly you said the OEM relationships we have OEM relationships with certainly Ericsson; that's doing very well.
Their GGSN on our M Series we commented on the growth there.
The relationship with IBM has an OEM component.
And the piece that's been growing has been IBM reselling Juniper-branded equipment.
So our growth is really on the resell components of Juniper-branded equipment and the same with Dell.
The growth has been in the Dell partnership it's been reselling Juniper-branded equipment versus the OEM version.
So the partnerships are good.
The OEM-branded version is not where the growth is coming.
It's coming from those partners reselling IBM and Dell specifically reselling Juniper-branded equipment.
The second part of your question is related to Dell's announcement to acquire Force10.
I spoke with Michael Dell before that came out.
He gave me a call and we had a discussion around both of our -- and have an intent to expand or to continue this partnership.
And look I acknowledge it will make it more complicated because there's more overlap in the product line.
But the fact is that we also have products that go into the solution that are complementary to what Dell would be doing with Force10 and their other products.
And it's our intent to continue to focus on how to create a good partnership with Dell built on the foundation that we have established thus far.
Our next question comes from Brian White from Ticonderoga Securities.
I'm just wondering how should we think about revenue recognition for QFabric MobileNext and in T4000 this year? And what type of a ramp can we expect in the first half of next year? So in terms of QFabric we'll get some revenue this year but as we said consistently it will be relatively modest this year.
In terms of T4000 and PTX the T4000 will start shipping this year.
We're expecting revenue in the first quarter of next year.
In terms of PTX it will start shipping in the first quarter of next year.
Our next question comes from Jeff Kvaal from Barclays Capital.
Kevin I was wondering if you could spend a little bit more time talking about the migration from EX to QFabric? How that's coming along? Just off the top of my head 5 beta trials seems like a fairly modest ramp relatively speaking.
Sorry Jeff you're breaking up a bit.
Could you repeat the question please? I was wondering if you wouldn't mind going into the migration from the EX to QFabric; how that is progressing and how comfortable you are with the QFabric trajectory.
First of all EX and QFabric can coexist.
So customers who have implemented an EX environment configuration can now install QFabric and have the 2 coexist as they decide what portion of their data center they want to run in Fabric mode versus what portion they want to run in our 2-tier architecture based on the EX.
So I think from that standpoint the way we've architected the product in the roadmap for customers there's a very smooth way for customers to decide how fast or how slow they want to go in the migration from an EX environment to a QFabric or from a competitive switching environment to QFabric for that matter.
We've made it very easy for customers to do that migration and I feel very good about the approach that our engineering and services teams have taken.
The second part of your question might be how we feel about the progress that we're making with QFabric.
And I think given the fact that in Q2 we successfully completed the 3 proof-of-concept tests with customers and we're now in the beta process which we just started about 2 weeks ago and we're now running the end-to-end system with our 5 beta customers and we're on path to look to ship that product around the end of this quarter.
So we feel good about the progress we're making.
We feel good about the pipeline.
We feel good about the fact that we've now got even our first significant design around QFabric.
That's been result of the proof of concept and these betas.
So I think we're setting the foundation to have a very highly differentiated solution for data centers for both private public clouds.
As we go into 2012 that solution can interoperate with our EX and with our competitive -- our competitors' switching environments.
So we've got -- I think we've got a good opportunity as we look forward.
Our next question comes from George Notter from Jefferies &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> I was hoping to ask about the PTX specifically.
Any evidence in your conversations with customers or activities that you're able to put the PTX into core routing networks that are based on Cisco core routers? Certainly the way the PTX is architected is to interoperate with industry standards.
And so there's nothing that would prevent it from going into an environment where there is a competitive install of a core router.
The early design wins that we've seen however are typically solutions that involve the PTX plus the T4000 plus the MX targeted some very unique scenarios.
So there's nothing that would prevent us technically or from a go-to-market standpoint to selling PTX to customers that have non-Juniper technology in the core.
Yet what we're finding is that there is great value that we have in synergy across the product line in these early design wins.
Our next question comes from John Slack from Citigroup.
Robyn you reiterated your 25% or higher operating margin target.
I'm wondering where you feel you shake out in the longer-term growth target.
Is still greater than 20%? And then maybe you left out the color on the MX 3D.
Maybe we can get a little color on how the MX 3D is doing this quarter.
So in terms of the long-term model I mean we talked about it on the call.
We feel really good about the long-term in terms of the growth opportunities that we have ahead of us with the product cycles that we have.
In terms of specific color about next year's growth we will do that late in this year or early next year as we get ready for setting up for the 2012.
But I think if you look at the model the model is about optimizing the top line growth with the market opportunities that we see ahead of us as well as being efficient and effective with our use of resources to drive that 25% operating margin.
In terms of MX 3D I did give the number.
The total MX was down slightly quarter-over-quarter and up significantly year-over-year.
And it was really around the timing and deployment of the design wins that we have.
So it was a normal type of thing that you have with deployments of a fast ramping product.
Our next question comes from Jayson Noland from Robert W.
Baird.
Kevin a question on SRX and your thoughts on your high-end SRX pipeline and recent weakness.
Is that a function of competitive pressure or maybe mis-execution versus micro related issues? Yes I think first at the high-end SRX the most significant factor in that was the very significant comparable we had from a year ago of a very large Tier 1 service provider in the U.S.
doing a massive deployment of SRX.
And so that large deployment created a very high comparable which was the biggest impact on the overall SLT business.
Second to that I would comment that the branch SRX has done very well and that leads then in enterprise data centers.
In enterprise data centers I think that we're seeing more competition.
And I think frankly there's opportunity for us as we release QFabric to show the whole end-to-end solution that we have in these data centers that combines with what we've done with SRX then with the virtual gateway that runs in VMware and Junos Pulse on the client.
So I think more competition related to data center.
I think we've got a good path forward with what we're doing with QFabric and our data center architecture.
We feel very good about the high-end value proposition for service providers.
And even as they move to LTE there's new technology that we're building into the SRX to enable that architecture for LTE as they switch from 3G to LTE.
So we feel good about where we are in high-end SRX.
The service providers feel good about where we are with branch SRX and branch and campus.
Acknowledge we're seeing more competition in enterprise.
But I think with what we're coming to market with QFabric and how we stitched together the end-to-end story of what we're doing to secure the client secure the network and secure within the VMware servers why we think we've got a very good competitive story.
Our next question comes from Rod Hall from JPMorgan Chase.
I just had one clarification and quick question.
The clarification is on the 5 beta trial for QFabric.
I wonder if you can say how many those were web services type companies and how many are type B compute applications like exchanges and universities just to give us some idea what the spread of those trials look like?  And then my question is on EMEA I guess it was counterintuitive to see the revenues there up as much as they were even though I guess you guys did call out a good pipeline in Q1.
So I guess that was coming through in Q2.
Can you talk a little bit though about what the distribution of revenue across regions might look like in Q3 and Q4? So you think EMEA will be weaker and the other 2 regions stronger? Or any color you can give us on that would be interesting.
I'll take your first question on the QFabric betas and then I'll hand off to Robyn to comment on EMEA.
On the QFabric the 5 betas that we have I would characterize it as a mix of large service providers and large enterprise customers.
These are going to be the types of data centers and the types of demand that QFabric is very well suited for.
It's not -- I frame it that way is high-end enterprise customers that have demand for that and as well as service providers that are moving into the business of managed services and providing cloud-based computing services.
And it's a very good mix.
On the EMEA question I'll hand off to Robyn.
On the EMEA question Rod you're right.
We actually saw strength in the quarter and they're related to the design wins that we had late last year early this year.
And so we do have EMEA as one of the areas for caution as we move forward just given the entire macro perspective there.
Having said that we are doing well with service providers in EMEA and we do have other design wins that will start rolling out later in the year.
But in terms of enterprise we are cautious on enterprise in EMEA pretty much across the board.
Our next question comes from Paul Silverstein from Crédit Suisse.
If I could ask a question or clarification.
The question is given that the relatively weak service provider CapEx environment that you called out Kevin it seems like it's unlikely to change on a global basis on an annual basis given the tight revenue environment given the tight margin environment all these carriers find themselves in.
And historically I thought it was fairly decent divorce from your revenue relative to the overall macros related to carrier.
I'm trying to reconcile your comments about design wins versus the macro headwinds you're seeing at the service provider level.
The clarification did you mention how many MobileNext trials design wins you have? Yes let me take the question Paul.
In terms of the service provider I'm not sure -- there are certainly macro things going on.
For service providers they're growing subscribers and they've got more smartphones more tablets more devices connected to the network.
Independent of macro there is more network traffic demand and the focus that service providers have had especially in the U.S.
has been implementing more of the RAN or the radio access network components the cell towers and the mobile backhaul.
As that gets implemented then there will be a phase that that puts brings that demand traffic into the Edge and core which will then drive an upgrade cycle on Edge and core.
So I think part of it is timing of where the build-outs are taking place.
That said your question about the fundamentals for growth in network traffic are unchanged.
And that is what's driving continued demand for innovation in the area of network.
And that's where innovation like PTX and T4000 and what we're doing with MobileNext and MX 3D comes into play.
On the second part of your question around MobileNext I commented on the fact that we've secured our first design win and that we have a number of customer trials in place.
So the only comment that I made was on that first design win and we just released that software here in the last 2 3 weeks.
We have time for one further question.
Our last question comes from the line of Bill Choi from Janney Capital Markets.
[Janney Montgomery Scott] So back on SLT here.
Can you address what looks to be a continual drag on the non-SRX products the screen OS-based product? It seems to be accelerating on the downward trend and I'm not sure what the game plan is to really transition that base and create a scenario several quarters down the road where the overall SLT business revenue will go up.
I guess you haven't had a screen OS upgrade since 2 years ago.
So in terms of the strategy around the SLT products the idea is to transition them over time from the net screen product screen OS-based products to the Junos-based products.
And so that transition has started.
We have a very loyal customer base on the older products and that's why that hasn't declined as much as you might think.
And branch in terms of SRX this quarter is a proof point of that.
We actually did see a good sequential and year-over-year increase in branch as we start to make sure that the features and functionality are there for customers to adopt those going forward as their new platform.
I'll now turn the call back over to Ms.
Nemeth for closing comments.
We'd like to thank everyone once again for joining us this afternoon.
This does conclude our conference call and we look forward to speaking with you again in the future.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Juniper Networks Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Ms.
Kathleen Nemeth Vice President of Investor Relations for Juniper Networks.
Thank you Ms.
Nemeth.
You may begin.
Thank you operator.
Good afternoon and thank you everyone for joining us today.
Here on the call today are Kevin Johnson Chief Executive Officer; and Robyn Denholm Chief Financial Officer.
Kevin is joining us today from Hong Kong where he is meeting with customers and partners and attending the All Saints' Day conference.
Please remember when listening to today's call that statements made during this call concerning Juniper's business outlook economic and market outlook future financial operating results and overall future prospects are forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors including economic conditions generally or in the networking industry changes in overall technology spending the network capacity requirements of service providers the timing of orders and shipments manufacturing and supply chain constraints variation in the mix of products sold customer perception and acceptance of our products litigation and other factors listed in our most recent report on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC.
All statements made during this call today are made only as of today.
Juniper undertakes no obligation to update the information in this conference call in the event facts or circumstances subsequently change after the date of this call.
In discussing the financial results today Robyn will first present results on a GAAP basis and for purposes of today's discussion will also review non-GAAP results.
For important commentary on why the management team considers non-GAAP information a useful view of the company's financial results please consult our 8-K filed with the SEC today.
For the detailed reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP results please see today's press release.
In general non-GAAP results exclude certain non-recurring charges amortization of purchased intangibles and other acquisition-related charges and expenses related to stock-based compensation.
On today's call Robyn will also be providing forward-looking guidance.
As a reminder guidance is provided on a non-GAAP basis other than that with respect to revenue and share count.
All guidance is forward-looking and actual results may vary for the reasons I noted earlier.
GAAP guidance measures are not available on a forward-looking basis due to the high variability and low visibility with respect to certain charges which are excluded from the non-GAAP guidance estimates.
Please note that today's call is scheduled to last for one hour.
[Operator Instructions] With that I will now turn the call over to Kevin.
Thank you Kathleen.
And welcome everyone.
We delivered third quarter results that were in line with our expectations and the performance benchmarks we articulated on our last conference call.
We remain confident in our strategy and our momentum with customers as we execute on the fourth quarter and prepare for 2012.
We achieved solid bookings in the quarter and secured important design wins that support the pipeline of new solutions we are bringing to market.
The macro environment remains challenging with many economic indicators becoming more volatile in the recent weeks.
In the near term this environment may make certain customers more cautious in their CapEx spending.
However we believe our broader market opportunity continues to be strong driven by the 2 key trends of mobile Internet and cloud computing.
In this environment as we did in 2009 we remained focused on being agile and flexible while making the right investments for the long-term.
Looking at the customer environment service providers continue to invest in their infrastructure.
In Q3 our service provider business grew 8% year-on-year.
Year-to-date through Q3 our service provider business has grown 17% year-on-year.
The fact that we had solid bookings this quarter including a number of multi-quarter orders reflects well on the wins that we have secured for new projects.
We are seeing service providers sequencing these projects over the next few quarters based on their individual priorities and we have also been notified of design wins that have not yet translated to bookings.
So order flow and investment posture has been pretty healthy but the timing of spending is being managed closely.
On our Q2 call we shared the view that large service provider spending for 2011 will be weighted closer to 50% in half 1 and 50% in half 2.
That deviates a bit from the normal seasonal trend of higher second half spending that we've talked about in the past.
Given the current macroeconomic volatility we expect that service providers will continue to closely manage their Q4 CapEx investments with an eye on their priorities and financials for 2011 versus 2012.
On the enterprise side we grew 11% year-on-year.
That's a pretty good result given that the verticals of financial services and public sector 2 of our largest enterprise sectors have slowed the pace of new projects as they work through either economic challenges or in the case of the public sector a constrained budget environment.
The growth in spite of these factors demonstrates the strength of solutions like the EX portfolio and improved performance from SRX.
We're also seeing good contributions from our key partners.
That said we expect the near term macro uncertainty to prompt enterprise customers to take a cautious posture on capital spending in the near term.
As we think about Juniper's position and how we manage through near-term uncertainty we think it's important to keep 3 things in mind.
First beginning 3 years ago we increased our investment in R&amp;D.
2011 has been a pivotal year in delivering the strongest product portfolio in the history of the company.
We remained focused on our strategy of innovation around the market trends of mobile Internet and cloud computing.
Second since 2009 we've managed the company to a set of operating principles that we update annually.
A key underpinning of those principles is to remain agile to invest in our growth and innovation agenda while prudently managing our operating expense structure.
We continue to remain agile through volatile economic periods while driving our innovation and growth agendas.
Third as we position for the next fiscal year 2012 is all about converting that innovation to revenue as we move throughout the year.
To enable this we have been prudently investing in our sales and marketing capabilities within our guiding principle of managing operating expenses carefully.
With the wave of new products coming to market we continue to be thoughtful about investments in quota-carrying sales professionals with a focus on near-term return on investment for each new sales headcount we add.
As we look at the third quarter results and think about the months ahead we are executing well.
We have built backlog in our current offerings showing particular strength in the MX and SRX Series.
We also continue to create demand and generate design wins that will begin to drive revenue from our new offerings in the data center enterprise mobility and our Converged Supercore routing technology in 2012 and beyond.
We have met milestones in shipment schedules for our new products.
The QFabric Interconnect and Director have been released.
The T4000 is scheduled to ship later this quarter with Comcast placing one of the first orders.
And PTX routers are on the way.
At the same time we've been putting the right organizational structure in place to effectively drive our innovation roadmap and support our customers' next generation networking requirements.
As we announced in July we have implemented the Platform Systems division and the Software Solutions division.
Many of you have gotten to know Stefan Dyckerhoff who heads the platform's Systems division and oversees our efforts in the data center and core and Edge routing.
Bob Muglia officially joined us on October 4 as Executive Vice President of software responsible for shaping and driving our end-to-end software strategy.
I'm confident that Bob's vision management strength and technical expertise will bring significant value to Juniper.
We are sharpening our focus on systems and software as the 2 core engines of growth for the company.
Our software business is already a key differentiator that drives customer adoption of our solutions including our SRX and virtual gateway security offerings our MobileNext core for mobile operators the Junos Pulse mobile security suite for managing devices and the Junos Space platform for developing and deploying network applications.
I'm pleased to welcome Bob to Juniper.
So to wrap up while we are mindful of the macroeconomic backdrop our strategy has not changed.
We had a strong bookings quarter we're building backlog we're driving market interest in our products and we're poised to begin delivering revenue from our innovation roadmap next year.
We have set up 2012 as the year when we will have the strongest product and solutions portfolio in the history of the company.
We are being thoughtful as we build the go-to-market capability to drive the success of our new innovations.
At the same time we remain strongly committed to R&amp;D.
We're doing all of this with an eye on agility to ensure our approach to spending remains consistent with our stated operating principles.
And finally we're putting a strong organizational structure in place that is aligned with our vision and strategy for success.
We look forward to keeping you posted on our progress.
Now I'll turn it over to Robyn for her review of the quarter and our outlook.
Robyn? Thank you Kevin.
And good afternoon everyone.
In the September quarter we achieved our financial objectives and delivered 9% year-over-year revenue growth an EPS of $0.28 which was in line with our guidance.
While our business in the third quarter unfolded consistent with our view in July concerns about the macro environment have since increased.
We've seen lengthening project cycles and extended delivery of request timelines from some of our customers.
Given the volatile economic conditions and the effect they may have on our customers' spending we continue to balance our investments with careful cost management as we have done in the past.
The underlying fundamentals of our business remain healthy and we are focused on executing our strategy to address the market trends of mobile Internet and cloud computing.
In the coming year we expect to drive the deployment of our innovative portfolio of new products.
Looking at the demand metrics for the quarter book-to-bill of 1.2 reflects healthy demand for our products.
We ended the quarter with strong product backlog driven primarily by router orders.
Total deferred revenue was $886 million up $101 million year-over-year.
Deferred revenue declined sequentially by $44 million.
This included a $29 million decrease in deferred services revenue due to typical seasonality for service contract renewals and a $15 million decrease in product deferrals related to delivery of committed features.
Whilst these metrics demonstrate healthy fundamental demand for our product we continue to be very cautious in the near term.
Total revenues for the third quarter was $1.106 billion down 1% sequentially and up 9% year-over-year.
In the quarter there were no customers who accounted for more than 10% of total revenue.
For the third quarter GAAP diluted earnings per share were $0.16.
Included in the GAAP diluted earnings was a $0.02 charge associated with restructuring actions we took during the quarter.
Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share were $0.28 which reflects a $0.03 sequential and $0.04 year-over-year decrease.
Now let me provide some color on revenue by region business segment and market.
In the third quarter the Americas were approximately 50% of total revenue.
EMEA was 28% and APAC was 22%.
Americas revenue was down 4% from the second quarter with the decline in service provider partially offset by good sequential and year-over-year growth in enterprise.
On a year-over-year basis Americas was up 4%.
EMEA revenue was down 5% sequentially due to declines in Southern and Eastern Europe partially offset by strength from service providers in Germany and the U.K.
Year-over-year EMEA grew 13%.
APAC revenue increased 12% sequentially and 17% year-over-year primarily due to the recognition of deferred product revenue.
We continue to see a challenging demand environment in Japan and apart from Greater China and Australia indications of softness elsewhere in the region.
Now looking at revenue by segment infrastructure revenue was $835 million down 6% sequentially and up 12% year-over-year.
Within this segment total router revenue was $703 million down 8% sequentially.
Growth of 9% year-over-year was driven by the strength in MX and T Series.
Total MX product revenue was $229 million down 18% sequentially but up 30% year-over-year.
We had very good MX bookings which are reflected in the strong book-to-bill.
We had a strong sequential increase for the T Series and as planned we expect to strengthen our core routing offerings with first shipment of the T4000 in fourth quarter of 2011 and the PTX in the first quarter of next year.
Total switching revenue was $132 million up 7% sequentially and 30% year-over-year.
Product revenue which includes QFabric was $110 million.
This was up 6% sequentially and 13% year-over-year driven by strength in EX2200 and EX8200 products.
In addition revenue from our wireless LAN portfolio was $12 million.
Moving on to the SLT segment revenue for the quarter was $271 million an increase of 15% sequentially and 1% year-over-year.
SRX product revenue was strong at $92 million up $30 million for the second quarter.
This was primarily due to growth in our high-end SRX reflecting our commitment to helping our service provider customers secure their mobile traffic.
We are also pleased with the branch SRX growth which reflects the progress of our channel initiatives in the enterprise market.
Pulse continues to expand its success with design wins globally.
We expect deployments of these design wins to generate revenue in 2012.
Looking more closely at the markets we address service provider revenue was $685 million down 6% sequentially due to declines in routing partially offset by strength in security.
Service provider revenue was up 8% year-over-year.
Enterprise revenue was $421 million up 8% sequentially due to the strength in routing and switching and improvement in security.
Enterprise revenue was up 11% year-over-year.
For the quarter service provider was 62% of total revenue and enterprise was 38% of total revenue.
Now moving on to our margins and operating expenses.
Non-GAAP gross margins declined slightly from the second quarter to 65.3% impacted by product mix and higher product costs.
Product gross margins were 67.5% of product revenue down 60 basis points sequentially and 200 basis points year-over-year.
Relative to the prior quarter product gross margin was impacted by a relatively lower volume of routing partially offset by improved volume of security products.
On the cost side there were increased inventory carrying costs.
Services gross margins were 57.4% up 170 basis points from the prior quarter and 270 basis points lower than the prior year.
Non-GAAP operating expenses for the third quarter were $501 million an increase of $8 million from the prior quarter.
This reflects our prudent operating expense management as we continue to fund our R&amp;D agenda and increase sales coverage for our new products.
Year-over-year operating expenses increased by 14%.
R&amp;D expenses were flat with the prior quarter and up 9% from last year's third quarter.
Sales and marketing expenses were 3% higher on a sequential basis and up 23% year-over-year.
G&amp;A expenses remained about 3% of sales and were in line with the prior period at $36 million.
Looking at headcount.
We ended the quarter with 9 187 employees a net decrease of 121 from the second quarter.
This includes the impact of actions that we took late this quarter as reflected in the restructuring charge of $16.8 million.
This rebalancing is part of our discipline to ensure that we manage our resources to address the macro environment over the near-term and the market opportunity to support our growth over the long-term.
Non-GAAP operating margins for the quarter were 20% down 1.6 points sequentially and down 4.1 points year-over-year.
Looking at the operating margin by segment infrastructure operating margin was 18.5% 5.2 points lower compared to the prior quarter and 5.7 points lower compared to the third quarter of last year.
Infrastructure operating margin was impacted by the reduced revenue in the quarter and as a reminder the results for infrastructure segment includes routers switchers MobileNext and QFabric.
SLT operating margin was strong at 24.5% which was 11 points higher sequentially and 40 basis points above last year's third quarter.
Operating margins in SLT benefited from the strong sequential revenue growth.
The GAAP tax rate was 30.9% for the quarter.
The non-GAAP tax rate was 27.4% up slightly from the prior quarter due to the geographic mix of income.
Looking at the balance sheet we ended the quarter with net cash and investments of $3.1 billion.
DSO was 36 days in the quarter compared to 39 in the prior quarter due to better shipment linearity.
Q3 cash from operations was a solid $185 million up $54 million from last year but down $133 million sequentially.
As you may recall last quarter benefited by the timing of a tax refund related to the 2010 R&amp;D credit.
I am pleased with our strong cash generation again this quarter.
During the quarter we repurchased approximately 8.9 million shares at a weighted average cost of $21.47 per share or approximately $191 million.
Our weighted average shares on a diluted basis for the quarter were 536.6 million shares a decline of almost 10 million shares from the second quarter.
CapEx totaled $72 million up $10 million from the second quarter.
And this includes our continued construction costs for our corporate campus here in Sunnyvale -- those buildings are expected to be completed in 2013.
Depreciation and amortization was approximately $43 million up slightly from last quarter.
Now let's discuss our guidance.
As a reminder guidance is provided on a non-GAAP basis except for revenue and share count.
As I highlighted in my opening comments we believe the long-term fundamentals of our business remain healthy.
Demand indicators in the quarter were mixed.
Bookings was strong but the mix of orders requesting delivery beyond Q4 was higher than anticipated.
Given this unusual backlog timing as well as the continued volatility in the macroeconomic environment and its impact on customer CapEx we remain cautious.
Our guidance for the fourth quarter of 2011 is as follows: we are expecting revenues to range between $1.160 billion and $1.220 billion; gross margins for the fourth quarter are expected to continue in the range of 65% to 67%; operating margins for the fourth quarter is expected to be in the range of 21% to 23%; operating expenses are expected to be up sequentially and lower as a percentage of revenue.
We will continue to focus on balancing the longer-term needs of the business whilst remaining agile and prudent with our spending in the short term.
This is expected to result in fourth quarter non-GAAP diluted EPS of between $0.32 and $0.36 per share and assumes a flat share count a tax rate of 27.5%.
In summary while we continue to see a challenging environment ahead we remain focused on executing our strategy to capitalize on the market trends of mobile Internet and cloud computing.
The underlying fundamentals of our business remain healthy as we bring our innovative products to market in the coming quarters.
I want to thank our employees for their continued support their dedication innovation and commitment to delivering the new networks are key to our success.
And with that I'll hand it over to the operator for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of Simona Jankowski with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to reconcile a few of the moving pieces as it pertains to your guidance.
In particular as you mentioned deferred revenue declined by 5% sequentially.
That actually was the biggest sequential decline since Q3 of '08 which preceded a couple of subsequent misses.
Yet you also commented that book-to-bill was at 1.2 which seems pretty strong but then at the same time your guidance is now 10% lower than what we had expected a quarter ago.
So can you just kind of put together those moving pieces? And then relative to that lower guidance can you just be a bit more granular about what drove it relative to either verticals or geographic regions? In terms of the current quarter and the impact on the guidance for Q4 it's actually quite simple.
The movement between Q3 and Q4 in terms of the guidance for the full year is really the backlog situation and the unusual nature of that with a high proportion of the backlog due to delivery in the first quarter of 2012.
So that is the sequential change in the guidance.
From our perspective in terms of the deferred revenue that was anticipated in our guidance for the third quarter.
So that was as expected.
And in terms of the book-to-bill we were anticipating a strong book-to-bill which is what we recorded of about 1.2 for the quarter.
So in terms of all of those factors that we've looked at for the guidance as we move forward clearly we have more visibility to close the closer EMEA for the next quarter.
And obviously we take that into account as we're setting guidance.
We also take into account the fact that we do have deferred revenue that relates to features that are specified for delivery in terms of the R&amp;D cycles that we have and the features that we're delivering to that R&amp;D cycle.
And we also take into account the backlog that we have and our discussions with customers globally.
Research Division</strong> And just a quick follow-up there on the weakness incrementally in terms of either EMEA or financial services or public sector.
Are you able to allocate how much of the weakness in the guidance versus expectations came from any of those segments? In terms of the weakness in those areas we actually as we said in the prepared remarks had a good quarter in terms of growth rate sequentially on the enterprise side despite the fact that there is obviously softness in the budgets in the government sector and also the constraints from the financial services sector.
So in terms of the forward-looking part of the enterprise market we are continuing to see good wins across the board.
And that is factored into our guidance.
But be assured we're also taking a cautious view in terms of the market conditions for the fourth quarter as well.
Our next question is from the line of Tal Liani from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I have a question -- first of all about the evolution.
How should we expect the evolution of revenues for let's say the next few quarters? You have a few products that are kicking in between next quarter and the following 4 quarters.
Can you discuss timing? And internal expectations or discuss what should we have for expectations when it comes to timing where the new projects -- or new products -- are hitting the numbers? In terms of the products and revenue and roll out over the next few quarters obviously we've already released the QFabric products.
They shipped in second half of September so they’re actually already out there.
We saw very minimal revenue as expected in the third quarter.
And we don't anticipate significant revenue in the fourth quarter either.
So we're very pleased with the design wins and Kevin can talk a little bit more about that in a minute.
In terms of the evolution of the product roadmap from there the T4000 as I said in the prepared remarks is expected to ship in the fourth quarter.
We're not expecting revenue in the fourth quarter that revenue release will start to happen in the first quarter of 2012.
We're very pleased with the trials and as Kevin mentioned we actually have our first order for the T4000.
In terms of PTX the Converged Supercore that's scheduled to release in the first quarter of 2012 and obviously revenue will follow that.
So in terms of the progress and the customers' acceptance in terms of the early trials that we've had I'll let Kevin talk about that.
Yes thanks for the question Tal just to add to Robyn's remarks QFabric as Robyn mentioned we shipped the nodes QFabric nodes back in February and as committed to our customers we've released the QFabric Interconnect and Director.
And we're seeing a lot of very good interest from customers.
In fact we have customers that have selected QFabric and are in various stages of implementation of their QFabric projects including customers like Thomson Reuters Deutsche Boers Bell Canada.
And whether it's large service providers that are building managed services data centers based on QFabric such as Bell Canada or it's financial services institutions that are looking at their high-frequency low-latency trading systems we're seeing some very good uptick on QFabric.
I'll also mention ACG Research published a white paper where they benchmarked QFabric versus the legacy approach to switching in data centers.
And their results show that QFabric was 58% to 75% lower capital expenditures because we have better scaling and reduced numbers of Chassis and racks.
And with reduced number of Chassis and racks they also found that QFabric consumes 68% to 89% less power.
And when you think about the power consumption in these big data centers that's a huge element of operating expenses.
So we're very enthusiastic about QFabric and the implications in the marketplace.
And I think as Robyn said look there's a long sell cycle with these big data centers but we've got a pipeline we're getting wins and we're getting deployments and we're engaged.
Certainly as the T4000 releases and the PTX Converged Supercore I think we're in a position where we've got the strongest product portfolio we've had in the history of this company.
And so in many ways we've been engaged with customers already in the discussion around the T4000 and we started taking orders including the orders from Comcast that we have for the first T4000 and I would expect that as we go into 2012 we will see some early orders for the PTX Converged Supercore as well.
But I think both Robyn and I will defer talking about 2012 guidance or expectations until we complete Q4.
Research Division</strong> Kevin Cisco recently has been talking about lower growth rates in routing markets driven by pricing pressure certain geographies.
Can you discuss pricing environment not only current pricing environment how you see the environment shaping up for the next few years? Yes I think first of all our router product revenue year-to-date has grown 19%.
And I think that statement of the momentum that we've gained whether it's around EMX or T Series or the work that we've done innovating around our routing platforms I do think that we continue to manage to have our healthy gross margins around those products because they are differentiated.
And I think for us the key is are we getting the return on investment from R&amp;D to create a differentiated product set in routing.
And thus far I feel very confident that our engineering teams have done a phenomenal job in building fantastic products that deliver great value to customers.
So we don't see significant pricing pressure.
I will say on the competitive front there are certain accounts or certain scenarios where at times the competition gets intense and there'll be times where we'll look at surgically focusing on offerings and things that might be more aggressive on price.
And then the second comment is 3 weeks ago I was in India and spent a lot of time in India.
I'm here in China this week.
And so certainly in some of the emerging markets I think there is potentially different expectations around the pricing.
But at a macro level I don't see that necessarily changing our strategy.
Our strategy is to differentiate our product through innovation and ensure that that innovation translates to customer value.
Our next question is from the line of Brian Marshall with ISI.
Research Division</strong> It looks like we saw some pretty nice improvement on the SRX line.
I was wondering if you could talk about yes what were the key drivers of this? Was there any lumpy orders there? Do you think this is sustainable going forward? And if it is looks like that line of business will be 10% of revenues in the not-too-distant future.
In terms of the SRX this quarter we did see good performance on the service provider side and as I've outlined in previous calls that revenue will tend to be lumpy as the design wins that we have deployed in the marketplace.
So we're pretty pleased with the performance this quarter.
As I also mentioned in the prepared remarks we also saw an improvement in the branch SRX which is focused at the enterprise side.
And we saw that last quarter as well so I'm very encouraged by that in terms of the go-to-market activities that we're driving around our enterprise security offering as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay so just for clarification Robyn so it sounds like these -- this improvement that we saw this quarter is going to be sustainable going forward in your view? So from our perspective we're expecting a sequential decline from our SP SRX performance in the fourth quarter only because of the fact that as I said we've got other design wins but the deployments of both tend to be lumpy over time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then with respect to going forward is it the company's view that we'll continue to see enterprise grow faster than service provider into the new year? So in terms of the guidance from a fourth quarter perspective we are expecting to see sequential increase in service provider from the third quarter levels.
And we're also expecting to see an increase in terms of the enterprise sector as well.
So we are expecting growth sequentially in both areas.
Our next question is from the line of Sanjiv Wadhwani with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Robyn on the backlog which is really healthy and where you're seeing shipment requests now out into Q1 can you talk about whether that is broad-based? Is it specific to 1 or 2 carriers? And if you can give some geographical information on that that would be helpful.
And then second question on gross margins you said you had increased inventory carrying costs.
Is that related to your backlog? Is that totally unrelated and any clarity on that would be helpful.
Yes let me answer Sanjiv the last question first.
In terms of the carrying cost it's totally unrelated to the backlog situation.
It is a period cost obviously for the third quarter.
We did see some of it in the second quarter as well.
And I talked about increased costs in the second quarter.
We expect to work that off over the next quarter or so in terms of that increased inventory cost carrying cost.
In terms of the backlog as I said in my prepared remarks it is unusual for us to have this higher proportion of backlog that is deliverable outside of the next quarter.
We always have some that is deliverable outside of the next quarter but for this quarter the proportion is quite high.
Having said that in terms of specificity about customers it's a handful of customers that are our most strategic customers.
And we're embedded in the most strategic projects that they have going forward and in which case that’s how they’ve placed the orders on us.
And so we're pretty pleased with that.
It obviously gives us some forward visibility.
So from my perspective it's a positive thing.
Next question comes from the line of Brent Bracelin with Pacific Crest Securities.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I also wanted to follow up here around this backlog timing and I guess my take here is going to be a little different.
As you think about the timing issues here is this tied to some timing issues relative to internal future deliveries on when you plan on delivering some features and products to these customers? Or is this kind of externally driven by kind of spending plans and maybe architectural implementation by your partners? Again I'm trying to understand is this your customers that are driving kind of this unusual backlog timing or is it some specific features that you're not going to have until kind of Q1 that's driving the timing here on the backlog? In terms of the timing of the backlog it's totally unrelated to new product.
It is all existing product where we've already -- both for new projects as well as existing projects in the service provider very strategic service provider customers that we have so it's not related to future product.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So would be tied to the -- your strategic partners' planning schedule for the delivery of when they expect this they want this equipment installed then? Yes I don't think it's fair to us to talk to our customers' intentions but I think it's fair enough to draw that latter conclusion that it's more related to the timing of CapEx and the timing of deployments on the service provider side.
Our next question is from Nikos Theodosopoulos with UBS.
Research Division</strong> This is Jack Monti for Nikos.
We were curious about 1Q seasonality with strong backlog in bookings and weaker than normal quarter-over-quarter growth in 4Q we were curious if 1Q will show above-normal seasonality? If I understood your question right do you mean that because we're calling midpoint of guidance as the represent growth year-over-year for the fourth quarter is that the question? Research Division</strong> Yes that's exactly right kind of weaker than normal we would call it 4Q growth and then with the backlog and the bookings being so strong it seems like that visibility going to the first quarter will be stronger or pretty strong is that the right way to think about it? I think at this point it's far too early to talk about the first quarter.
We'll give you some insight into the first quarter what we're expecting for Q1 on the fourth quarter earnings call.
Our next question is from the line of Jess Lubert with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Question is for Robyn.
It sounds like you're continuing to invest in OpEx heading into Q4 despite some signs that end market demand might be slowing.
So I guess I was hoping you might be able to help us understand if there is some base level of operating margin you would be looking to maintain if things continue to deteriorate from an end market demand perspective.
And then SLT operating margins were pretty strong in the quarter.
What drove the strength here? And is this a sustainable level of SLT operating margin going forward? In terms of SLT the biggest single factor in terms of the sequential strength of the operating margin for SLT was the revenue growth.
So the strong sequential increase in SLT's revenue actually translated into a nice improvement on the bottom line.
In terms of OpEx overall of the company we've shown in the past as we've shown in this quarter in the Q3 OpEx we are very fiscally responsible in terms of what we're doing from an OpEx management perspective.
We’re investing in the things that matter for the long-term both in terms of R&amp;D as well as sales -- sales and marketing.
And we're continuing to be very surgical in how we're placing those investments.
And at the same time we're getting more effective and more efficient across the board from a company perspective.
Hence the rebalancing restructuring activity that we do in the quarter.
And so our view is that we will continue to be as focused on OpEx management as we had in the past.
And I think you can see good evidence of that in the quarter.
Our next question is from the line of Ehud Gelblum with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First of all on the -- Robyn you talked a lot about this large backlog giving you visibility into Q1 or that's kind of why we're having a below seasonal Q4 and more into Q1 in addition to the macro things Kevin talked about.
But 3 months ago when you guided to 12% to 14% for the year versus the 5% to 10% you're guiding now you clearly thought this backlog was going to land in Q4.
And now it's sort of landing in Q1 and turning to backlog in October.
What changed or did you always expect it to land in Q1 and you expected other revenue to come in in Q4? I'm just trying to understand that delta between 3 months ago and now as to what your thought was on -- thought process was on Q4 and what I understood it to be was this backlog which sounds like it's generally MX bookings.
And so what really changed in either carrier plans or carrier thought process or carrier CapEx budgets or whatever between I guess July and today to make those MX deals go into Q1 versus Q4? Yes in terms of the difference it -- we were anticipating the bookings in the quarter in the third quarter.
But we were anticipating more of them to be deliverable in the fourth quarter.
And so that is simply the difference between the 2 metrics from a Q4 perspective.
And you can tell by the size of the book-to-bill that it was a significant increase in backlog in the quarter.
And I do think that that's reflective of our Q4 guidance.
So Kevin do you want to comment on that as well? Yes let me just add to Robyn's comments I think Ehud the thing that I see has changed slightly from 90 days ago primarily is the implications of the macro level uncertainty or volatility and the implications then on service provider CapEx spending and how they're being thoughtful about how they're sequencing things on the quarterly boundary.
I think the attention that service providers are placing on monitoring their CapEx expenditures quarter by quarter has increased in the last 90 days relative to what we saw in July.
Our next question is from the line of Mark Sue with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Next year if the macro environment doesn't improve should we take your 10% to 11% revenue growth from this year and then add all the new products? Does that get us back to 20% potentially? Mathematically new products have to contribute about $900 million next year.
Is that sort of what you're targeting? And then Robyn on gross margins do these new products carry lower gross margins before the volumes improve and can we potentially get back to 66% to 68%? In terms of the first question let me go through our process in terms of setting the targets for the fiscal year.
So at the beginning of each year obviously the end of the prior year as we're finalizing our planning we set up a financial model as well as a set of operating principles on how we plan to manage the company throughout that fiscal year.
And that's what we generally share with you at the beginning of each year and we will do that again for 2012.
We started obviously the current year expecting the macro environment to be significantly better by the end of the year.
And therefore how that impacts our end markets our target markets obviously routing and switching and security across the service provider and enterprise markets.
As Kevin mentioned in terms of our year-to-date growth and how that relates to the market conditions out there we do think that we're growing faster than the market today.
Our view is with the new products that we plan to release not just the ones that came out in the third quarter but also those in the fourth quarter and the first quarter of next year they will enable us to capture again more market share grow faster than the market over next year.
And so that is our approach.
We will outline more of the specifics in terms of next year on the call in January.
And Kevin did you want to comment on the markets as well? No I think that you've handled it well Robyn.
Our next question is from the line of Rod Hall with JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> I just had a couple.
One is on the MX backlog again or the backlog you guys have talked about.
Can you tell us anything about the regional split of that I mean is it mostly in Europe or is it spread across all the regions just be curious to know that.
And then I also was wondering about the 0% growth in Q4 the year-over-year growth.
Is that -- should we be interpreting that as kind of a negative service provider growth and then low single-digit enterprise growth can you just give us some idea of what the trajectory of the 2 business types is looking like in Q4? And it'd also be nice to know kind of what sort of visibility you think you got.
I mean have you been seeing order cancellations? Or is it just a push out of orders at this point? In terms of order cancellations and push outs of existing orders we have not seen that activity.
There may have been a small amount of it but nothing unusual in terms of either canceled orders or any existing orders pushed out.
In terms of the backlog itself we're obviously that's -- sorry the geographic split of backlog is obviously with our as I mentioned before with our largest our most strategic service providers that we have.
In terms of the growth rate quarter-over-quarter we're expecting obviously at the midpoint of guidance to grow 7.6% quarter-over-quarter.
And we are expecting that to be an increase in service providers slightly more in terms of percentage terms quarter-over-quarter than enterprise.
So we're pretty pleased with the performance in terms of the design wins in both.
We're pleased with the year-to-date performance in both sectors.
Our next question is from Simon Leopold with Morgan Keegan.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of things I just wanted to drill down on.
If we could get an update of the MobileNext product in terms of where you are trial activity and your thoughts on how revenue might ramp for the product for the evolved packet core.
Kevin do you want to handle that question? Yes I'm happy to handle that question.
MobileNext is as you recall is a software solution that we have created that runs on top of the MX 3D Edge router.
And MobileNext we released the first software offering a little over a year ago called -- something called Traffic Direct which was the first wave of offering that helped customers redirect bulk Internet traffic around the expensive service complex that some of the mobile traffic -- and allowed them to offload that traffic.
We've released the first set of gateways around mobile packet core earlier this year.
I think it was in Q2 as we committed to customers we released that software.
And we have a few design wins of some customers -- more of the Tier 2-type customers that we're engaging to now work on the deployment plans and convert those design wins into revenue.
We also have a product roadmap where we're continuing to enhance the products set around MobileNext.
And so I would expect as we go into this quarter and into 2012 we'll start seeing some public references of customers that are running MobileNext as their packet core on the MX 3D.
In addition I would also highlight that we continue to have a very strong partnership with Ericsson when it comes to packet core.
And the Ericsson packet core solution runs on our M Series router.
And they have a market-leading position in packet core and we continue to work very closely with them to ensure that their packet core solution is highly competitive on top of the M Series.
And I think this is -- the packet core is one element on the overall end-to-end solution that we're delivering to service providers as they shift from 2G to 3G to LTE.
And the timing of these transitions vary by customer and frankly they vary by geography.
And I think from a solution standpoint we've got a very good platform and a very good solution that we're taking to market.
But it’s one that I think will take some time for these design wins and the deployments and to help these customers take advantage of that offering but I think we're making some very good progress.
Our next question is from Jeff Kvaal with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> A couple of clarification if I may.
I think number one I think Robyn you said during your remarks that the MX was down 18% sequentially.
Could you talk us through that a little bit? Yes in terms of the MX it was down sequentially 18%.
But I did note as well that much of the backlog or the increase in backlog was primarily routing backlog.
So there is a high proportion of that in MX.
The next question is from Ittai Kidron with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to drill into the switching business.
Robyn correct me if I'm wrong.
You've talked about revenues of $110 million in products.
But that would imply stripping out the wireless LAN business that your EX business actually declined quarter-over-quarter.
Do I have that correctly? And if so what's still the challenge over there? And also can you give us some color as to how much of QFabric did you book this quarter? How much do you think you will book next quarter? So let me just clarify EX.
So EX was actually up in the quarter sequentially.
And the $12 million is on top of the $110 million.
So the $110 million was EX and QFabric and there was a very minimal amount of QFabric in the quarter.
In terms of the total revenue it's $110 million for EX and QFabric plus $12 million for wireless LAN and then there's services on top of that to get to the $132 million.
Our next question is from the line of Ryan Hutchinson with Lazard Capital.
Research Division</strong> I guess I'm going to ask it a different way.
I’m trying to understand the various buckets that drove the midpoint of the guidance down to the levels of about 7.5% and I understand macro clearly played a role here.
But as you dig into the service provider orders maybe Robyn if you could just help us quantify how large the orders are any color around backlog would be helpful.
And then what gives you confidence that they'll actually close in Q1? And I know you said there's a number of customers within that but it seems to be concentrated perhaps in 1 or 2 carriers and if that's the case just help us understand that as well.
And then finally as relates to seasonality it was asked but why wouldn't this positively impact you on seasonality in the event that these orders were recognized as revenue? Yes in terms of the backlog affecting Q1 it absolutely could impact positively Q1 but at this point I'm not prepared to call that.
It's far too early to call Q1 revenue.
They will be delivered in Q1.
In terms of the fourth quarter guidance the movement between our implied guidance for the first -- sorry for the fourth quarter that we talked about in Q3 earnings -- sorry on the Q2 earnings call early this quarter it's primarily that one movement in terms of the small number of customers that have placed orders for -- with us today for delivery in Q1.
The next question is from Jason Ader with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I want to follow up on Ittai's question.
On the switch business the growth has decelerated pretty substantially over the last few quarters there.
I'm just wondering is this due to competition from a rejuvenated Cisco? And then I was hoping maybe Kevin you could comment on Cisco's new product introduction today where they say they can double your fabric for scalability? Yes let me take that question.
Thanks for the question.
First of all the total -- our total switching product revenue including the wireless LAN I'll throw that in has grown -- year-to-date it's grown 30% year-on-year.
And if you look at the analyst reports just take through Q2 take the Dell'Oro report through Q2 the addressable market for ethernet switching declined by 6% year-to-date through Q2 and we'll see what happens in Q3 but year-to-date through Q3 we've grown 30%.
So we've grown 30% in a market that addressable market that has declined by 6%.
Now your question should be that "Okay.
Well why has that addressable market declined by 6%?" Well if you dig into that you'll actually see the number of ports through Q2 have increased but the revenue per port or ASP per port has declined.
And so then you say "Okay.
Well there must be some pricing action that's taking place in the switching addressable market." And what we see happening is really a bifurcation of that ethernet switching market.
And I'll say in the campus and branch areas where some customers will look and say "Okay.
Well a good enough type of switch might be acceptable to them and you have competitors like an HP or Huawei entering the market with a lower gross margin lower price.
And you see the incumbent having to follow them in terms of price in a good enough segment of ethernet switching market there is some pricing action that is taking place.
Now the second part though is that bifurcation though is the higher end segment of the market where innovation really is differentiated.
And that's the segment that we play in.
And so when we look at our growth we've grown in data center we've grown in campus and branch but we've grown our business around a value proposition that's enabled by our innovation whether it's the EX Virtual Chassis feature set that allowed us to collapse layers in the data center from 3 to 2 or QFabric that allows us to collapse the layers to a single layer of fabric within the data center.
Now just remind you QFabric and that innovation according to this ACG Research note allows customers to implement that data center with 58 to 75 lower CapEx and 68% to 89% less power consumption.
That's because we changed the architecture.
We have a new architecture new network architecture for QFabric.
So at a macro level I think we've grown quite well with a 30% year-to-date growth in an addressable market that's actually declined.
We've grown in the segments of the market where innovation matters and where we have strong differentiation versus those that I think are fighting more of a commodity battle.
We're fighting and really focused on an innovation agenda.
Then the second part of your question is around the announcements today.
It's early in Hong Kong so I haven't had a lot of time to read them.
But what I have read -- fundamentally what they have announced is products that still utilize the old network architecture.
Layers and layers of switches.
And what we've done with QFabric is a new network architecture.
So I think when it comes to QFabric certainly Juniper is driving the bus that Cisco is running to catch.
And I don't think necessarily what they've announced changes the architecture that they've had at all.
It's an old network architecture relative to our new network architecture.
That said I have a lot of respect for Cisco and I think in many ways this is a competition about old network versus new network.
And we're going to continue to play our game and focus on the things that we do well which is innovate in ways that matter for customers.
And our final question comes from the line of Alex Henderson with Miller Tabak + Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the trajectory into the fourth quarter on a seasonal basis between enterprise and service provider whether you're expecting a budget plush in the enterprise within your guidance or whether the enterprise piece is also going to see a less-than-normal budget plush.
What are your assumptions along that piece of the parameter of the guidance? Alex in terms of the guidance split between service provider and enterprise we are expecting growth in both sectors sequentially.
And we are expecting service provider growth to be slightly higher than enterprise growth.
In terms of normal seasonality we are not expecting a typical end-of-year spend from either sectors in our guidance so -- that are above the normal purchases within normal quarter as opposed to the end of year quarter.
So that's incorporated in our guidance.
So Kevin do you want to add to that? Yes Robyn.
And I would just add a comment that given the macro level volatility and uncertainty our expectation is there's much less of any kind of budget surge that you potentially have seen in prior years.
I think the pattern that we've seen whether it's financial services and the enterprise federal government or service providers it's much more of a cautionary focus on their CapEx spending in which [indiscernible] of the quarter that's going to happen on and I expect to see that again in Q4.
And I think that sets the tone because of the macro environment I think there should be an expectation that there is less of what I would call a budget surge in Q4.
Thank you.
We have no further questions at this time.
I'll just turn the floor back over to management for any closing comments.
Thank you Manny.
This concludes our Q3 financial results conference call.
Thank you very much for joining us today.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Juniper Networks Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Kathleen Nemeth Vice President of Investor Relations for Juniper Networks.
Thank you.
Ms.
Nemeth you may begin.
Thank you operator.
Good afternoon and thank you everyone for joining us.
Here on the call today are Kevin Johnson Chief Executive Officer; and Robyn Denholm Chief Financial Officer.
Kevin is joining us from Davos where he is participating in the World Economic Forum.
Before we continue I would like to highlight the reporting change that we are preparing to implement.
As we discussed early last year we are aligning our resources with our platforms and software strategy.
In 2012 we will conform our financial reporting to these business segments.
Under the new segment structure we expect certain product families to be reported under new segments.
We will provide you 2 years of recast quarterly history and we'll continue to provide key product category data.
Please remember when listening to today's call that statements concerning Juniper's business outlook economic and market outlook future financial operating results and overall future prospects are forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors including economic conditions generally or in the networking industry changes in overall technology spending the network capacity requirements of service providers the timing of orders and shipments manufacturing and supply chain constraints variation in the mix of products sold customer perception and acceptance of our products litigation and other factors listed in our most recent reports filed with the SEC.
All statements made during this call are made only as of today.
Juniper undertakes no obligation to update the information in this conference call in the event facts or circumstances change after the date of this call.
In discussing the financial results Robyn will first present results on a GAAP basis.
And for purposes of today's discussion we'll also review non-GAAP results.
For important commentary on why the management team considers non-GAAP information a useful view of the company's financial results please consult our 8-K filed with the SEC today.
For the detailed reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP results please see today's press release.
In general non-GAAP results exclude certain non-recurring charges amortization of purchased intangibles and other acquisition-related charges and expenses related to stock-based compensation.
On today's call Robyn will also be providing forward-looking guidance.
As a reminder guidance is provided on a non-GAAP basis other than that with respect to revenue and share count.
All guidance is forward-looking and actual results may vary for the reasons I noted earlier.
GAAP guidance measures are not available on a forward-looking basis due to the high variability and low visibility with respect to certain charges which are excluded from the non-GAAP guidance estimates.
Please note that today's call is scheduled to last for one hour.
[Operator Instructions] With that I will now turn the call over to Kevin.
Thanks Kathleen and welcome everyone.
Our results for Q4 are in line with the updated outlook we provided earlier this month and Robyn will cover the details after my remarks.
I'd like to spend a few minutes providing some insights on our 2011 performance the near-term macro environment and industry dynamics as well as our strategic approach which is centered on innovation and customer value.
I'll wrap up by sharing our operating principles for 2012 and update you on our innovation pipeline.
Juniper's revenue growth was 9% for 2011.
Annual revenue for 2011 represented a new record for the company.
Profitability was solid though lower than expected.
Our Q4 results felt the effect of increased macro volatility that escalated over the second half of the year due to the sovereign debt concerns in Europe and slowing recoveries in APAC countries as well as the U.S.
Here on our U.S.
business we saw a number of our largest customers reduce their spend within the quarter including Tier 1 service providers and financial services.
Though on other sectors like Federal we saw stronger spending than expected.
Another factor that played into recent results is the fact that we're entering what is surely the most exciting new product cycle in our history.
As we move through the launch phase on these products we've seen some short-term effects particularly in core routing as customers awaited the T4000.
This product is now shipping and we are seeing very good early response.
Our PTX transport core product line is also on track to release later this quarter.
There are also some significant positives in our results particularly in Enterprise.
Even with the macro headwinds and product transitions I described Enterprise sales were up 9% year-on-year for Q4 and 11% for the full year.
This growth reflects good performance in both routing and switching with the latter category up 28% in 2011.
We are taking share in the Enterprise consistent with our stated objectives.
Enterprise growth is one of several proof points that validate our strategy and reinforce the strength of our value proposition to customers.
We are firmly grounded in our strategic direction and we will continue to play offense while managing through the current pressures in our industry.
As we begin a very active 2012 here at Juniper I think it's a good time to refresh on the 5 key components of our strategy.
One we are pure play in high-performance networking.
All of our world-class talent is focused 100% on expanding our leadership in this category which we firmly believe will encompass most of the networking market as the 2 megatrends of mobility and Cloud computing accelerate.
Two we are recognized around the world as the innovation leader in networking.
We are committed to investing in R&amp;D at a level that drives our innovation agenda enabling us to deliver highly differentiated products and outstanding value to our customers.
Three we are committed to leveraging our R&amp;D investment to develop products and solutions that span both our Service Provider customer base and our growing Enterprise customer base.
Again the trends of mobility and Cloud computing make it easier for us to harness the strategy across the 2 sectors.
Four we are diversifying our customer base.
We have significantly broadened our Service Provider business over the last several years adding 155 net new Service Provider customers in 2011.
We're also expanding our presence in the Enterprise and we continue to take share.
And five we are complementing our system strategy with the Junos Space software solutions.
These solutions leverage the one Junos platform and are highly synergistic toward systems business.
We believe this strategy aligns very well with the powerful forces that are driving the new network.
Innovation is what will drive long-term value creation in the networking industry as customers abandon the complexity and unnecessary costs that plague old architectures and embrace open systems that can scale across multiple dimensions of network growth.
As our innovation takes hold in the market we are seeing competition become more aggressive.
This only reinforces that we are on the right track and we need to maintain our investments and continue to innovate faster than the competition.
We will stay the course with our organic R&amp;D investment.
2012 is a major new product year for Juniper.
We will be very focused on making investments that best monetize our innovations while remaining thoughtful about spending levels across the business.
It is important to recognize that Juniper's R&amp;D commitment has rewarded the company time and time again.
Five years ago we began investing in the MX 3D Edge routing platform.
We maintained our investment and MX has established Juniper as a key player to Service Provider Edge.
Our EX switching portfolio is another example.
Over a 3- to 5-year arc the EX has further expanded our portfolio and has translated as we predicted into a share-taking position for Juniper in switching.
We fully expect our new line of next generation data center fabric will enable us to take that position to a new level.
Of course there are some implications as we release new innovation into the market.
For example we've just started shipping the T4000 as planned and this may have slowed T Series orders over the last 6 months as customers awaited the new product.
These customers know that we are updating the performance that we deliver in the core.
In Security our customers are continuing to adopt Junos Space SRX offerings.
While our SRX portfolio for service providers is strong there are some product features that we are focusing on for our Enterprise customers.
You'll hear more about our action plan for Security and other innovation development in a special technology discussion with Stefan Dyckerhoff and Bob Muglia at Mobile World Congress at the end of February.
So we are confident in our strategy our innovation pipeline and the deeper penetration we are achieving in both Service Provider and the Enterprise but the near-term environment remains challenging.
As we have done in the past few years we have established a set of operating principles by which we are managing through the year.
For 2012 those principles are: first we are assuming continued uncertainty in the near-term macro environment; second we plan to grow faster than the markets we serve focusing on new product introductions to accelerate growth as we exit the year; third we will maintain investments that deliver innovation in our product roadmap; fourth we are focused on prudent cost management; and fifth we expect to generate solid cash flows to support our strategic needs while maintaining a strong balance sheet.
As we operate the business within these principles we are maximizing the success and accelerating the adoption of our new innovations coming to market.
I'm pleased with the progress we are making and the customer feedback we are hearing.
I'd like to share a few examples.
Our T4000 router is now shipping and 2 major Service Provider customers Telefonica and Comcast placed initial orders in Q4.
Our PTX trial process is going well and we received customer orders for this product which will ship as planned later this quarter.
QFabric had its first full quarter of revenue contribution which exceeded our expectations.
Most important at this stage however is securing early adopters for deploying QFabric and will serve as references to other interested customers.
This creates and accelerates the demand cycle.
We are pleased with the progress in this area as we now have a number of key customers in various stages of deployment across all 3 theaters.
These wins combined with the growing pipeline of opportunity is also generating more and more partner attention on this important product.
In the quarter we released the next wave of Mobile Next features including the S-gateway as planned.
Customers trial and third-party tests are showing that MobileNext evolved packet core software running on an MX 3D delivers breakthrough performance results for customers.
And that success is supported by an increased interest we are seeing with Service Providers.
As an example is Elisa Corporation the Finnish telecoms and ICT services company which has selected the Juniper Networks MobileNext portfolio as a unique mobile packet core solution in its network.
To wrap up we are aligned strategically to address what we firmly believe is a vibrant long-term growth opportunity in networking.
There are some near-term challenges but as we have demonstrated in the past we are committed to investing in an innovation roadmap that best positions us to capture the long-term opportunity ahead.
The 2 key trends of mobility and Cloud are fully intact and in fact are accelerating demand for the differentiated products we offer.
Customers increasingly recognize that legacy networks are plagued by complexity unnecessary cost and inadequate performance.
And customers around the world are embracing flatter networks that reduce complexity and cost while delivering dramatic improvements in performance and scale.
We are the one of the very few companies delivering breakthrough technology in the networking category and we fully embrace that position.
We look forward to seeing you at our upcoming meeting at Mobile World Congress.
In the meantime thank you for joining us today and I'll turn it over now to Robyn to cover the results.
Thank you Kevin and good afternoon everyone.
The December quarter was an atypical and unexpectedly weak finish to the 2011 fiscal year.
These results are consistent with the revised ranges we provided on January 9.
With the backdrop of continuing uncertainty in the macro environment 2 main factors contributed to the weakness.
Firstly our largest Service Provider customers reduced their spending intentions within the quarter.
And secondly while our Enterprise business did well the growth was driven primarily by Federal with a softer finish than expected in other areas.
Looking at our demand metrics book-to-bill was 1.0 and product deferred revenue was up slightly sequentially and relatively flat year-over-year.
While we believe that the long-term demand fundamentals remain intact and the near-term outlook remains uncertain in this environment a careful approach is appropriate as we anticipate the effect on customer demand and the prioritization of their investment and project deployment.
We will continue to execute our strategy whilst remaining focused on prudent expense management.
Total revenue for the fourth quarter was $1 121 000 000 up 1% sequentially and down 6% year-over-year.
Revenue for the full year was $4 449 000 000 up 9% year-over-year.
There were no customers who accounted for more than 10% of total revenue in the quarter or for the full year.
For the fourth quarter GAAP diluted earnings per share were $0.18.
Included in the GAAP diluted earnings was a $0.02 impact for restructuring and other charges.
Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share were $0.28 which is unchanged sequentially and a $0.14 year-over-year decrease.
As a reminder last year's non-GAAP diluted earnings included a $0.03 favorable impact related to the renewal of the full year R&amp;D tax credit in the quarter.
For the full year GAAP diluted earnings per share were $0.79 compared to $1.15 from the prior year.
Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share were $1.19 versus $1.32 a year ago.
Now let me provide you some color on revenue by region business segment and market.
In the fourth quarter the Americas were approximately 46% of total revenue EMEA was 36% and APAC was 18%.
Americas revenue was down 6% sequentially and 10% year-over-year primarily due to the reduction in demand by some of our largest Service Providers.
This year-over-year decline was partially offset by good Enterprise growth.
EMEA revenue was up 28% sequentially and 11% year-over-year with both Service Provider and Enterprise gains.
We saw good growth in Eastern Europe and The Netherlands.
In addition we saw the first revenue from a significant new win with a top Service Provider in Eastern Europe which spans a broad range of our product portfolio.
APAC revenue decreased 16% sequentially and 20% year-over-year.
This was primarily due to continued weakness in Japan and the push out of some demand in China.
Now looking at the revenue by segment.
Infrastructure revenue was $849 million up 2% sequentially and down 6% year-over-year.
Within this segment total router product revenue was $507 million down 8% sequentially and 21% year-over-year.
Total MX product revenue was $255 million up 11% sequentially and 8% year-over-year.
This reflects the healthy competitive position and incremental wins we've secured in the Edge.
T Series products were down sequentially as a result of weaker overall demand from Service Providers coupled with unexpected pause as we introduced the T4000.
As planned we shipped the first T4000 units this quarter and expect first revenue in Q1.
We also anticipate the first PTX shipments in Q1 and both products are generating excellent customer interest.
Total switching revenue was a record $168 million up 28% sequentially and 36% year-over-year.
Product revenue which includes QFabric and wireless LAN was $157 million up 29% sequentially and 33% year-over-year.
This was driven by a strength in our EX product both in data center and campus deployment.
We also recorded the initial revenues from the first deployment of our full QFabric solution.
We are very encouraged by the strong customer interest in this disruptive technology.
For the full year Infrastructure revenue was $3.4 billion up 12% from the prior year.
This was comprised primarily of router product revenue of $2.3 billion up 7%; and switching product revenue of $493 million up 31%.
Moving on to the SLT segment.
Revenue for the quarter was $272 million which was flat sequentially and down 4% year-on-year.
For the full year SLT revenue was just over $1 billion down 2% from a year ago.
SRX product revenue for the quarter was $81 million down 12% from a strong third quarter.
As we have noted in the past SRX revenues will vary by quarter influenced by the timing of high-end SRX Service Provider deployment.
In the Enterprise we have seen positive customer traction with the branch SRX but the revenue growth from these products has not offset the decline of the older Enterprise security products.
The Q4 release of the security design application in Junos Space and the product roadmap are promising steps as we stabilize and ultimately regain growth in the Enterprise segment of the security market.
We continue to see good adoption of Junos Pulse and had our first revenue from the new mobile security suite.
Also we began our first customer deployment of MobileNext and had new video optimization design wins both of which will yield revenue this year.
Looking more closely at the markets we address.
Service Provider revenue was $677 million down 1% sequentially and 14% on a year-over-year basis.
Lower routing revenue was partially offset by strength in switching both sequentially and year-over-year.
We also saw strength in sales to cable providers and T2 carriers.
Enterprise revenue was $444 million up 6% sequentially due primarily to strength in switching.
We also saw strength in sales to Federal and several European countries.
Revenue was up 9% year-over-year as routing and switching growth offset a slight decline in security.
For the quarter Service Provider was 60% of total revenue and Enterprise was 40% of total revenue.
For the full year Service Provider was 64% of total revenue and Enterprise was 36% of total revenue.
Our increasingly diversified revenue base both in Service Provider and in Enterprise helped offset some of the weakness with our top customers.
Now moving on to our margins and operating expenses.
Non-GAAP margins for the fourth quarter were 63.3% compared to 65.3% last quarter.
Product gross margins were 64.2% of product revenue down 3.3% sequentially and 5.1 points year-over-year.
Gross margins for the quarter were negatively impacted by 3 mix-related factors: firstly a lower proportion of router sales; secondly a shift in the geographic mix of revenue from the Americas to EMEA; and lastly a higher percentage of services in our total revenue.
Performance for the year was impacted by these same factors as well as increased fixed overhead and inventory-related costs.
Whilst we recognize competitors are positioning themselves aggressively we've not seen any discernible difference in our discounting or in our win-loss ratio.
Our strategy is to continue to differentiate our products through innovation and total cost of ownership.
Services gross margin were 60.6% up 3.2 points from the prior quarter and 2 points compared to the prior year.
This was a result of higher overall services revenue and good cost management.
Non-GAAP operating expenses were flat sequentially at $501 million driven by lower variable compensation offset by higher prototype and development costs and very good cost management.
R&amp;D expenses were down 1% from both the prior quarter and last year's fourth quarter.
Sales and marketing expenses were flat sequentially and down 2% year-over-year.
G&amp;A expenses remained about 3% of sales at $38 million.
Looking at headcount.
We ended the year at 9 129 employees a slight sequential decrease and a net increase of 357 heads or 4% from last year.
We have slowed our hiring and are focused on the most strategic requirements as we address the near-term environment.
Non-GAAP operating margins for the quarter was 18.6% down 1.4 points sequentially and down 5.9 points year-over-year.
Looking at operating margins by segment.
Infrastructure operating margin decreased 1.5 points sequentially and 9 points lower year-over-year.
This was primarily due to lower revenue and product gross margins.
For the full year Infrastructure operating margin was 21% of sales 4.4 points lower than last year.
As a reminder the results of the infrastructure segment include routers switchers MobileNext and QFabric.
SLT operating margin was 23.4% 1.1 points lower sequentially and 3.7 points above last year's fourth quarter.
For the full year SLT operating margin was 19.4% of sales 0.5 point lower than last year.
The GAAP tax rate was 21.5% for the quarter.
The non-GAAP tax rate was 23.7% down 3.7 points from the prior quarter.
This was due to our geographic mix of earnings and a onetime impact from the favorable resolution of certain state income tax matters.
Looking at the balance sheet.
We ended the year with $4.3 billion of total cash and investment with approximately 50% on shore.
Our net cash and investment was $3.3 billion.
DSO was 46 days in the quarter up from 36 days last quarter but in line with Q4 last year.
Cash from operations was a strong $244 million this quarter up $58 million sequentially and down $127 million from the prior year.
For the full year we generated strong cash flows at $987 million from operations.
Q4 CapEx totaled $78 million.
For the full year CapEx was $266 million an increase of $81 million over the prior year.
This was driven primarily by the cost for our Sunnyvale camp -- corporate campus.
Depreciation and amortization was flat with last quarter at approximately $43 million.
Our weighted average shares on a diluted basis for the quarter were 533 million shares a decrease of approximately 3 million from the third quarter.
On a full year basis we bought back $541 million of shares which largely offset stock issued through our employee equity program.
Now I will review our outlook.
As a reminder these metrics are provided on a non-GAAP basis except for revenue and share count.
Looking ahead we believe the long-term demand fundamentals remain intact and we are confident about the growth potential of our new product portfolio.
However we are concerned by the near-term uncertainty in the macro environment and the effect it may have on the level timing and prioritization of customer demand.
Given this view we expect Q1 2012 to be challenging.
We are expecting revenues to range between $960 million and $990 million.
This reflects seasonally lower Enterprise spending and continued caution by Service Providers.
Gross margins for the first quarter are expected to be in the range of 63% to 64%.
We expect the first quarter's revenue mix to have similar characteristics to last quarter's but should see progress from our continued focus on cost improvement.
Operating expenses are expected to increase in Q1 as we incorporate the typical increases in employee expenses such as FICA and the reset of variable compensation.
As we have done before we will continue to make the strategic R&amp;D and go-to-market investments that are necessary to successfully execute our strategies and capitalize on the new product cycles while carefully managing costs.
And as a result of lower revenue similar gross margins and higher operating expenses for the first quarter we expect operating margins for the first quarter to range from 11% to 13%.
This is expected to result in first quarter non-GAAP diluted EPS of between $0.11 and $0.14 per share.
This assumes a flat share count and a tax rate of 29%.
The tax rate includes an estimated $0.01 quarterly impact on EPS and assumes no renewal of the R&amp;D tax credit.
In summary we are confident of our strategy of disruptive innovation and our operating principles for the year position us very well going forward.
In the near term we anticipate the revenue environment will remain challenging.
For the full year we expect to grow faster than the markets we serve based on the new product cycles and the conversion of current design wins.
We also anticipate that we will improve our operating margin from the Q1 level throughout the year.
We will navigate this near-term uncertain demand environment as we have in the past remaining focused on prudent expense management investing in critical areas of the business to drive growth and continuing to bring value to our customers as they address the market demands of mobile Internet and Cloud computing.
I want to thank our employees for their continued support.
Their dedication innovation and commitment to delivering the new network are keys to our success.
With that I will hand it over to the operator for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Brian Marshall with ISI group.
Research Division</strong> A question with respect to Service Provider CapEx outlook.
Obviously very difficult to ascertain but I was wondering -- and obviously you're not talking about things from a quantitative perspective but more qualitatively I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about kind of your best guess with respect to when things might start to pick up from an industry standpoint from a wireline CapEx perspective.
Historically it seems like these things happen kind of in 4 quarters and it seems like that we're kind of halfway through if that's the case implying a bottom in the sort of summer time frame this year.
Would you kind of agree with that? I'll go ahead and take that Robyn.
Let me just comment on some of the trends Brian that we see unfolding.
First I think clearly there's a shift of CapEx from wireline to wireless.
And when we look at that shift fundamentally that plays into the architectural approach that we put together.
Architecturally when we look at that shift from wireline to wireless we believe customers -- certainly there'll be a wave of investment around radio access networks but then as things come to the packet-switched network we believe in Fixed Mobile Convergence so the unified Edge which basically is what we architected the MX 3D to do -- was to be able to handle both the wireline and wireless side.
And so with that shift from wireline to wireless we think that starts to play into the architectural value proposition that we have about helping customers collapse multiple networks into a single unified Edge which gives them better economics in terms of carrying that traffic.
In addition to that shift there's also the trend that I think you see with Service Providers where they're much more closely looking at the level of CapEx relative to revenue generation.
And this is something too that over the last 3 years we've predicted as customers look at their revenues streams and start to map the level of investment required to drive that revenue they're looking for efficiencies and efficient use of capital.
We believe that too plays to our value proposition whether it's on the Edge with the unified Edge or whether it's in the core or whether it's in the Converged Supercore.
And so with that market shift we think it plays to several things that have been a core part of our strategy over the last few years as we've built these architectures and products.
Now the question is if you think about going through the year when and how will CapEx unfold? First I'll just remind you that the packet-switched networking component of CapEx is a small percentage of the total Service Provider CapEx.
I do believe that in talking to many customers certainly a combination of the uncertainty related to the European sovereign debt situation and the implication that has on financial services and the implication that has on access to capital is one of the reasons I think that Service Providers are being somewhat perhaps more cautious in the levels of capital expenditures but they're also being more mindful of how those capital expenditures are aligned behind their revenue generation.
So I think we're going to have to wait and see how the macroeconomic situation unfolds and our approach is going to be consistent with what we've done in the past is to remain very agile as we see that unfold yet staying true to our strategy.
Because we believe we have the right strategy that plays to the value proposition these customers need and are looking for and we're going to have to just be agile as we work through the time period and see how these things start to pick up.
Our next question comes from the line of Ehud Gelblum from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> A couple of things.
When you look at -- Robyn you're talking about the T Series and the T4000 stalling a little bit on the router side.
At what point did you see that happen? And since PTX is also somewhat of a core router type of product are you seeing any mix of customer base? Perhaps -- PTX perhaps cannibalizes some of your T Series or core or you're seeing anything happening there in the dynamic? Then a clarification in the Enterprise side.
If you can you just give us what the wireless LAN revenues did that will be helpful also.
And then finally on the MX that did very well this quarter.
How do you see that? If you can give us a sense as to kind of how that plays out through the rest of 2012.
Does it start weak and then go up every quarter throughout or you're kind of still waiting to see what carriers do before you kind of call what the MX is going to do? I'll start answering the question and then Kevin can elaborate as well.
So in terms of routing as Kevin mentioned before we are very confident in the strategies that we have both on the core and on the Edge in terms of the Universal Edge and the core.
In terms of customers pausing for the T4000 we were expecting that in the quarter.
If you recall back to last quarter's call we had a surprisingly strong quarter in T in Q3 and we called that out.
We actually were expecting it to decline in the quarter and it did.
In terms of the overall commentary about routing we obviously did see that come down during the quarter as service providers changed their spending intentions within the quarter.
With respect to wireless LAN I talked about the total switching growth in the quarter.
We saw growth in all 3 areas of the switching of EX as well as wireless LAN as well as QFabric quarter-over-quarter.
So we are pleased with the progress across the board for the switching portfolio.
And with respect to MX the strength in the quarter we did see that come back up as we called out on the third quarter's earnings call.
That's a result of both new design wins and continued deployment of existing design wins that we have on the MX side.
And our view is that that platform is very strong in the Universal Edge.
Strategically as Kevin commented there is a convergence from the Edge and we believe that MX is very well positioned for that.
Kevin anything you'd like to add? Yes I'll just add on the question you had about the PTX Ehud.
Look most of the PTX deals that we're working on fundamentally the PTX and Converged Supercore it collapses multiple layers of the network.
It doesn't replace the core.
And so most of the deals we're working on have T Series for the core MX and the PTX as we're working with customers.
So I don't anticipate that the PTX is a product line the cannibalizes the core.
What it does is it now extends the core and allows that core network to be able to collapse multiple networks into a single point with the PTX.
Our next question comes from the line of Tal Liani from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about margins of core routing and Edge routing.
First do you see any pricing pressure in the market within -- when you look at like-to-like kind of customers outside of geographical mix? And then how is pricing different between core and Edge? I'm asking this just because Cisco mentioned repeatedly in the last 6 months about declining margins in routing and I want to correlate it with your declining margins.
Yes.
So I'll answer that question Tal.
So firstly as we've stated strategically our -- the way we work with customers is on total cost of ownership in terms of delivering products into the market that would reduce their cost of ownership both in terms of CapEx and OpEx.
And so we've been focused on that across all the product areas that we're in with both Service Provider customers and with Enterprise customers.
That is our core way of operating within the marketplace.
And we continue to deliver the innovation that customers need in order to do that.
In terms of our pricing as I said in my prepared remarks we're not seeing any discernible difference in our discounting practices or in the win-loss ratios versus any other period of time.
So there is obviously -- the competitive environment is intense but it's always been intense.
So our view is that that hasn't changed.
I think what has [Audio Gap] we are delivering innovation to the market that directly drives total cost of ownership difference for our customers and they are seeing that translate to value for them.
So Kevin anything else you'd like to add? I'll just sort of punctuate that point Robyn.
First of all the innovation agenda we're driving creates differentiation which our strategy is to sell the value in the differentiation we have.
That said we are very aware of the competitive dynamics and our sales teams are very focused on customer situations.
And if we see areas where competitors are getting more aggressive on price we may decide to be surgical in a certain customer deal or two.
But I think as Robyn commented this quarter we didn't see broad levels of discounting taking place.
But I just want to comment that from a competitive standpoint we will sell our value and we're going to be very focused on the customer and the competitive dynamics in that account.
And if we need to use price surgically we will consider and be thoughtful about how to do that.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Sue from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Kevin I'm trying to reconcile the promising market trends against declining revenues customer delays and lower operating margins.
Why do you think the challenges are temporary in nature? And if the competitive action sort of increasing do you subscribe to that notion that your large and growing target markets are now just large markets and now there's a structural change to margins for everyone? Well first of all I think the market trends -- long-term market trends that we start with would be those of mobile Internet and Cloud computing.
In fact the traffic driven by those market trends continues to grow.
That's point number one.
Point number two is the transition of how to carry that traffic to packet-switched networking.
So the packet-switched networking is a subset of the total capital expenditures of these customers.
And then number three you look at the fact that customers are trying to get more efficiency out of the investment in CapEx which in order to get that efficiency we believe very strongly it's a combination of the architectural approach that we've taken with the new network and the innovation that we put into our products.
So we think that number one the long-term demand trends remain strong; number two the customer trend and desire to get CapEx more aligned with their revenue is going to make the architectural approach and innovation we're delivering more valuable to them; and number three I think it's going to come down to how well we compete in the market to earn those opportunities.
I do think that there will be places where there will be surgical action taken on price but I think overall we feel like we've got differentiation in technology and that comes from our investment in R&amp;D.
And so we've got to lead with that value.
And then at the same time look we're very aware of the market situation.
We're very aware of customers and we are playing offense.
So we'll see how things unfold.
Our next question comes from the line of Simon Leopold from Morgan Keegan and Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of things.
One is probably a tricky question to answer but needs to be asked anyway is -- in light of a couple of disappointing quarters I'm trying to figure out how much of your forecast is an effort to be super conservative and cautious so that you've got a number you're very comfortable meeting versus how much of this guidance is truly some change in the fundamental demand for your product in the quarter.
And maybe you can even tie that to the commentary we've gotten from at least the major Service Providers in the U.S.
suggesting that their capital spending would be roughly flat year-over-year which certainly doesn't align with this first quarter guidance.
I'll start with that question and Kevin if you want to add anything please feel free to do so.
So in terms of the guidance we've taken the same approach to our guidance for the first quarter as we typically do.
Obviously we always look to refine the approach and improve it and make sure that we're looking at different things from a process perspective but the philosophy and the approach to the first quarter guidance is consistent with what we've done previously.
In terms of how we're looking at things as we said in the prepared remarks the demand fundamentals for the markets that we serve are absolutely intact.
We continue to see progress in terms of things that are driving the demand for the new network.
Our view is that for the first quarter Service Providers are going to continue to be cautious in their CapEx spending and we also typically see a seasonal decline from the fourth quarter to the first quarter in our Enterprise business as well.
So that is what we're projecting for the first quarter in terms of guidance.
Yes.
Just to add to that the macroeconomic situation I think in the Enterprise has some implications in financial services.
And I think if you look at the financial services sector you see some of the implications there.
And we saw some of those customers push some of the deals out of Q4 into Q1 so there's some question of will they push again from Q1 to Q2 depending on how things unfold in Europe.
So there's a little bit of factoring that into the seasonal decline that we normally see in Enterprise from a Q4 to Q1.
The other factor is in Q4 of 2011 we had a very strong quarter in Federal which was very unusual.
Typically in U.S.
Federal you have your bigger quarter in Q3 and then things decline in Q4 so we had a big federal quarter in Q4 which question is is that repeatable then in Q1? So there's a couple other things that I think were factored in as we looked at the Q4 to Q1 guide.
And then for the Service Providers as they're shifting to wireless oftentimes -- it depends customer by customer but oftentimes they put a lot of capital first into the radio access network in the access side.
And as they do that that's part of what then allows them to start to generate more traffic from smartphones tablets and as they go to LTE even significantly more traffic.
And then as that cycle works through then it puts more traffic demands on the Edge and core of the networks and that's where we play.
So some of this is timing as the wireless investments are made and as that traffic pattern builds up.
So those are a couple other factors that were part of the thinking on the guidance.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeff Kvaal from Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions.
And Kevin one might be more for you and then Robyn one more for you.
I guess question is your revenue levels now are at levels that you might have reached 2 or 3 3 or 4 years ago and yet your OpEx is significantly higher.
I'm wondering if this revenue level persists what might trigger you to reconsider where your OpEx levels are? And then my second question is Robyn if I'm not doing it wrong I got the DSOs up sequentially and I would have thought if you had a weak close to the quarter that those might not have been up all that much.
I'll take the first one Robyn and then let you handle the second one.
Yes Jeff the approach we're taking is very consistent to the approach we've taken over the last 3.5 years or so as we work through the economic ups and downs of the situations we've managed through over this 3.5-year period.
Certainly our view is this becomes after Q1 an opportunity for us to continue to grow and as Robyn commented improve on operating margins from Q1.
And so certainly if we continue to see lower revenue levels then that's going to prompt us to be much -- to continue to be very thoughtful about what we're doing on the operating expense side.
But I think when we look at the product portfolio and when we look at the full year I think we're going to -- I think we're set up in the right way.
We're delivering on the set of products that we've had in the pipeline.
But certainly as we see how Q1 unfolds and as we move into Q2 we're going to be very agile and thoughtful in our cost allocation.
Yes.
And in terms of the DSO.
The DSO was very consistent with last year in terms of the Q4 DSO.
It was up sequentially in terms of the third to fourth quarter but very consistent with what we've seen in prior Q4 DSO trends.
Our next question comes from line of Brent Bracelin from Pacific Crest Securities.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess Kevin -- a question for Kevin here.
And really taking a step back from Q4 and looking at the trends within the Service Provider business over the last year.
Service Provider segment revenue declined sequentially in each quarter during 2011.
Your outlook would imply another sequential decline in the Service Provider business in Q1.
We've really never seen this 5-quarter kind of consecutive decline in the business and I went back 10 years.
So I guess the question is what gives you confidence this is just an industry issue and not some share loss or competitive issue? And then obviously given the strong balance sheet with $4 billion in cash and investments why would you not consider getting more aggressive on the acquisitions front and try to further diversify away from kind of Service Provider environment that continues to be pretty weak here? Let me first comment on your question about market share.
And the data point I look at -- we had very very strong Q1 and Q2 on our router business.
In fact if you look at year-to-date through Q3 -- year-to-date through Q3 our router business was up year-on-year about 19% and the Infonetics data showed that addressable market was up about 11%.
Now certainly we have to see how all the router market gets reported for Q4 and factor that in but year-to-date through Q3 we were -- routing business was up 19% and addressable market up 11%.
So we'll see how that unfolds for Q4 but that's part of -- the thesis is we're watching -- as we're watching this unfold we had a big cycle some big deployments in Q1 Q2 then certainly midyear 2011 the concerns about European sovereign debt and some of the other thing started to perhaps have some implications in the industry and we'll see as the data comes out for Q4.
Second part of your question is around M&amp;A and I think clearly we continue to drive a strategy that organic R&amp;D is our primary value-creation strategy.
We will continue to complement that with acquisitions.
And we wanted to focus on acquisitions that are complementary to the R&amp;D strategy that give us some how synergies in terms of the solution or the technology the value that we're delivering to customers.
And I think over the last 2 years we've done 6 or 7 different acquisitions that would be characterized probably more as tuck-ins things that were smaller that had intellectual property and some number of headcount and talent in a certain area.
And it was intellectual property that was very complementary to things that we were doing in our overall organic R&amp;D strategy.
So I think we feel good about the architectural approach that we're taking to market and the different domains of networking that we're participating in.
We feel good about this wave of new products.
And we're going to always be mindful of what M&amp;A we could do to complement our organic R&amp;D.
But I still think that the focus we have is driving an innovation agenda that comes from the talented people that are inventing new architectures and new ways to solve complex problems for our customers.
Our next question comes from the line of Simona Jankowski from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 questions.
The first one is you didn't have any 10% customer last year which is not typical for you.
So I was just curious if you look out into this year based on the pipeline of your design wins if you would expect to have a 10% customer again at some point this year.
And then the second question was in the fourth quarter switching did better than we had expected and you said in particular that QFabric is seeing an excellent response.
And so I was just curious if you can just give us some categorical examples of the kinds of customers that are the early adopters of QFabric whether it's the Federal segment or Internet companies or large enterprises et cetera.
I think the -- on the 10% customer one of the strategies we articulate is that we are diversifying the customer base.
And that's a strategy as much about Service Providers as it is about Enterprise.
And we've expanded our go-to-market model in the Service Provider sector where we are now reaching out to -- with our partners and others to a larger number of Service Providers -- smaller Service Providers the Tier 3 Service Providers that still make a significant amount of investments in our technology.
And so that customer diversification and Service Provider combined with our growth in the Enterprise and our diversification in the Enterprise is the reason we have not seen a 10% customer last year.
And it's possible we would have a 10% customer this year but it's probably not a likely scenario.
But we'll see how that unfolds.
In terms of QFabric and your question about the strong results that we had in switching and fabric I'll give you a little perspective.
We released the QFabric nodes in Q2 -- or in late Q1 basically and started selling in Q2 and then we released the QFabric Interconnect and Director in Q3 late Q3.
So Q4 was the first full quarter that we had the nodes Interconnect and Director available for customer and customers.
And that roadmap was all as planned and what we communicated when we announced QFabric.
So through Q4 and Q4 we had over 100 customers of QFabric that at a minimum had purchased QFabric nodes.
And a certain subset of those customers have purchased and are deploying the full QFabric systems.
We are very focused on working with those customers to ensure that they have a great customer experience and great early success as they adopt QFabric.
And strategically that's important because those customers that have great success they certainly are willing and enjoy talking to other customers and it's having those customer references where we can take a customer to go see another customer's implementation of QFabric hear directly from them the success that they're having and the good results that they're getting from it that is in turn creating more interest and more pipeline.
The increased pipeline in interest is generating now a lot of energy from our partners.
We hosted our Global Partner Conference last week and we had record attendance at the Global Partner Conference.
And in many cases these are partners that -- some of them are new partners to Juniper and some of them have a significant business and networking today.
And one of the big areas of interest for them is being able to grow their business and expand their business with new innovation like QFabric.
So we're in the cycle right now where I think the demand in the pipeline is growing.
And right now we're having to focus on how to build skills.
I think now the pipeline and demand is growing at a rate at a pace where the concern is are we now building enough skills and capabilities in our partner channel and certainly with the teams in the field that are working with customers to be able to continue to service that demand? So that gives you a little bit of color a little bit of background on what we're seeing with QFabric.
Our next question comes from the line of Nikos Theodosopoulos from UBS.
Research Division</strong> I had 2 questions.
The first one can you discuss the conversion of orders and backlog to revenue? If I think about the 1.2 book-to-bill and the 1 book-to-bill this quarter my rough calculations are backlog grew 30% this year.
And the revenues don't seem to be converting so I'm having a hard time understanding that especially going into the next quarter's guidance.
And then the second question would be I know it's early but based on your discussions with your carrier customers what do you see the carrier routing market growing this year? Your total router revenue growth about 7% in the full year of 2011.
Do you think that's a reasonable target for this year based on your discussions or do you see that being higher or lower than that? I'll answer the first part of the question and then Kevin can add to that.
In terms of the conversion of book-to-bill yes the book-to-bill in the quarter was 1.0 so equal to revenue for product book-to-bill.
We did have a sequential increase in product-deferred revenue a slight increase of about 3%.
We have grown the backlog.
The same phenomena that we had last quarter in terms of the proportion being out.
One quarter did not occur in the fourth quarter so it was a one-quarter phenomenon in the third quarter.
So we left the fiscal year of 2011 with a more normal proportion for the first quarter than we would have had if the year was ending at the end of Q3.
So the backlog is healthy in terms of our first quarter the deferred revenue balances are essentially flat year-over-year and a slight sequential increase from the third to fourth quarter.
So in terms of the Q1 demand environment as we said in our prepared remarks we are expecting the cautious nature of the Service Provider orders to continue into the first quarter.
Obviously with the book-to-bill of 1 you can calculate how many orders we got in the fourth quarter for products.
So our view is that continues through the first quarter.
Our next question comes from line of Rod Hall from JPMorgan Chase.
Research Division</strong> I guess the big question is on routing share.
And in the data we're presented with I think most people on this call would conclude that you're actually losing share in Q4 on carrier routing and that that probably continues into Q1.
Just because the last 2 times we've seen carrier routing the market declined as Brent indicated in 2008 and 2001 so those are pretty tough years.
It doesn't feel like it's anything like as bad as that this year and yet your routing revenues are down.
So I guess the question is do you agree with that? And is that your opinion? You must have an opinion on your routing share.
And do you think that it would make sense to get more aggressive on the pricing going forward to preserve your position in routing? And the other thing I'll just toss in there is Cisco clearly indicated more aggression starting back in September.
And maybe that happened early in the market so it seems like they have been putting more pressure on routing in Q4.
So just address that for everyone that I think is going to leave this call otherwise concluding that you're losing share that would be great.
Let me take your question Rod.
First of all I'll just remind you the comment I made on the earlier question.
Year-to-date through Q3 our routing revenue had grown 19% versus Infonetics' estimate of the addressable market growing 11%.
We'll have to see what the Q4 numbers come out.
I do suspect that with the T4000 releasing and the decline that we had in T Series we may see in the quarter that there was some share loss short-term in the quarter on T Series as we are preparing to ship the T4000.
On the MX the MX grew and so I think on the Edge I think we probably are in a different situation on the Edge relative to the core.
So we'll have to wait and see how those numbers come out.
But I think overall we feel good about the product portfolio.
We feel good about the value proposition.
And the earlier comment I made we are being very aware of pricing actions and what competitors are doing in specific accounts.
And with the big router business and specific accounts it's an account-by-account opportunity for us to be thoughtful about the value proposition and the set of things we're doing in that account.
If we need to be surgical on price for certain things we certainly are open and we'll be very thoughtful about doing that.
Our next question comes from the line of Jess Lubert from Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> First is it your expectation to grow the overall business in 2012? And then secondly you're clearly investing to support the launch of a number of new products despite the lower revenue.
So given that scenario I was hoping you could help us understand how you're thinking about the progression of operating margins in 2012 and help us understand where you think the operating margins may get to by the end of the year.
In terms of the question Jess thanks for the question obviously one of our operating principles for the 2012 year is that we expect to grow faster than the markets that we serve.
So clearly we are expecting growth in terms of growing faster than the market.
In terms of the operating margin question we will make progress from the operating margins from the first quarter that I put out in guidance throughout the year and again that we said in terms of our overall principles for the year.
So Kevin would you like to add to that? Yes I'll just -- a couple of thoughts and it kind of links back to routers as well.
Certainly with the T4000 I think we said there'll be some revenue recognition late Q1 most likely Q2 with the PTX shipping late in Q1.
I think with -- when it comes to core routing and the Converged Supercore that's really a Q2 through Q4 revenue opportunity for us which we believe allows us to continue to build on our Q1 revenue streams.
And the second point that Robyn made I think is very important which is we look to expand operating margins from our Q1 -- this Q1 base as we go throughout the year which is a function of a view that we are going to see growth improving as we go forward.
And if the volatility in the market or some other reasons indicate that that's not happening we're going to be very thoughtful and agile on our operating expenses as we've done in the past.
We have time for one last question.
Our last question comes from the line of Sanjiv Wadhwani from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
One Robyn I'm just trying to reconcile understanding the fact that Q1 is seasonally weak.
However you obviously had a pretty good book-to-bill of 1.2 coming out of Q3 with some of the shipments that will actually come out in the March quarter.
So if anything I think despite sort of negative seasonality you should have a little bit of a better Q1 outlook.
And then second question is just taking up a previous question on sort of the growth for 2012.
I know you are suggesting that you're going to grow faster than the market.
I'm just curious to get your take on what you're thinking about the growth rate for the overall market.
I mean are you thinking the market grows 10% north of that south of that? Any color would be helpful.
Yes let me just talk about Q1.
In terms of our Q1 we obviously have backlog coming into the first quarter.
We did have some of those orders actually in the third quarter as we talked about on the third quarter call.
All of those orders are going forward.
There isn't any change in that.
The booking rate in the fourth quarter as it relates to the book-to-bill for product being 1 was obviously slower than the third quarter.
So -- and our view is the rate of orders from the Service Providers are going to continue in terms of their cautious view around CapEx for the first quarter.
That is principally the reason for the reduction in terms of the guidance that we put out there on the Service Provider side.
On the Enterprise side as I mentioned in the prepared remarks we typically see a sequential decline between the fourth and first quarters each year.
We're expecting that for the first quarter.
And so when you combine a sequential decline for Service Provider and a sequential decline for Enterprise we get the guidance that we've put out there.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
Greetings and welcome to the Juniper Networks First Quarter 2012 Earnings Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Kathleen Nemeth Vice President Investor Relations for Juniper Networks.
Thank you Ms.
Nemeth you may begin.
Thank you operator.
Good afternoon and thank you everyone for joining us.
Here on the call today are Kevin Johnson Chief Executive Officer; Robyn Denholm Chief Financial Officer; and Stefan Dyckerhoff Executive Vice President Platform System.
Before Kevin gets started I would like to highlight changes to our financial reporting which are reflected in today's earnings press release.
As we have discussed previously Juniper is aligning our business segment reporting to the company's organizational structure and focus on its platform and software strategy.
We believe this change will provide investors with increased financial reporting transparency and will enable better insight into the market and performance trends driving the company's business.
Juniper's 2 reportable segments are now the Platforms Systems Division which will often be referred to as PSD and Software Solutions Division or SSD.
Our press release provides a description of each segment including the products within each segment.
There is a table included in Appendix 2 which identifies the specific products by segment within routings switching and security.
The PSD segment aligns primarily with the Infrastructure segment under the historical reporting approach and consists of routing switching and security products and services.
Note that security products such as the branch SRX branch firewall and J-Series product families which are now in PSD were historically reported as part of our SLT segment.
The SSD segment aligns primarily with the SLT segment under the historical reporting approach and consists of security and routing products and services.
Note that routing products such us routing services software which are now in SSD were historically reported as part of our Infrastructure segment.
Detailed information including 2011 and 2010 announced as they would have been reported under the new approach is included in the Appendix of today's press release and are provided in Excel tables on the Investor Relations page of our website.
These include quarterly segment revenues with product detail segment contribution margins and corporate unallocated expenses.
Please remember when listening to today's that statements concerning Juniper's business outlook economic and market outlook future financial operating results and overall future prospects are forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors including economic conditions generally or within the networking industry changes in overall technology spending the network capacity requirements of service providers the timing of orders and shipments manufacturing and supply-chain constraints variation in the mix of products sold customer perception and acceptance of our products litigation and other factors listed in our most recent 10-K filed with the SEC.
All statements made during this call are made only as of today.
Juniper undertakes no obligation to update the information in this conference call in the event facts or circumstances change after the date of this call.
In discussing the financial results Robyn will first present results on a GAAP basis.
And for purposes of today's discussion will also review non-GAAP results.
For important commentary on why the management team considers non-GAAP information a useful view of the company's financial results please consult our 8-K filed with the SEC today.
For the detailed reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP results please see today's press release.
In general non-GAAP results exclude certain nonrecurring charges amortization of purchased intangibles and other acquisition charges and expenses related to stock-based compensation.
On today's call Robyn will also be providing forward-looking guidance.
As a reminder guidance is provided on a non-GAAP basis other than that with respect to revenue and share count.
All guidance is forward-looking and actual results may vary for the reasons I noted earlier.
GAAP guidance measures are not available on a forward-looking basis due to the high variability and low visibility with respect to certain charges which are excluded from the non-GAAP guidance estimates.
Please note that today's call is scheduled to last for one hour.
[Operator Instructions] With that I will now turn the call over to Kevin.
Thanks Kathleen and welcome everyone.
Juniper executed well in the first quarter delivering results that were better than forecast in a market environment that as expected continue to be dynamic by geography.
I'll provide some detail on how we see business unfolding here in the first half of the year including the solid traction we're seeing with our new products.
I've also asked Stefan Dyckerhoff who heads our Platforms Systems Division to provide some further depth from the progress we are making on our innovation agenda.
After Stefan's comments Robyn will provide the financial review.
First quarter results reflect demand from our large Service Provider customers and some declines in Enterprise routing.
Geographically we saw continued headwinds in EMEA as expected.
But we saw good wins and activity across all of our theaters.
We're also seeing new products contribute to results including a solid first full quarter of revenue from our recently introduced T4000 core router.
Our switching performance remains solid in light of the market environment and we're gaining traction with our QFabric offerings.
In security SRX posted good results in the first quarter.
Customers have responded very positively to the recent update of the user interface of security configuration and device management software.
We are continuing to manage prudently and carefully in this environment.
Service providers continue to be thoughtful with their spending.
Our largest customers have a clear focus on maximizing efficiency as measured by capital to spend to revenue.
The focus on efficiencies supporting important architectural transitions such as the convergence of the wireline and wireless Edge which is a great opportunity for our MX Series of Edge routers.
In fact our recent MX capacity upgrades coupled with the T4000 core router's powerful throughput enables Juniper to leverage our install base on both the core and the Edge.
These differentiated products are helping customers reduce their cost per bit of traffic while driving operating efficiencies across their business.
Service Providers drive for capital spending efficiency aligns with the strategic priority of the drive our innovation agenda.
We are innovating in areas that are highly relevant to our customers both in mobility and in the cloud.
We're delivering differentiated solutions that change the economics and experience of networking for our customers.
We are taking an architectural approach for solutions that enable our customers to address some of the most critical challenges they face.
And it's important to keep in mind that architectural changes take time and close customer collaboration.
We feel good about how our customers both existing Juniper customers and new customers are responding to our approach and our solution.
The T4000 generated good revenue in the first quarter.
We recorded our first PTX revenues and are pleased with the orders we are receiving.
We continue to win new customers with QFabric and we are enabling numerous production deployments.
Within security we continue to strengthen our portfolio with new features and improved usability.
As we move forward we will continue to focus on execution.
Our new products are a result of good execution in R&amp;D and we continue to expand our go-to-market capabilities.
Our innovation agenda is on track.
We are confident in the value of the solutions we are delivering and the customer traction and feedback we are seeing supports that confidence.
We believe in the long-term fundamentals driving the new network.
Our strategy for long-term value creation is clear and it consists of 5 key elements.
One we are a pure play in high-performance networking with an addressable market opportunity for Juniper that is large and growing; two we are an innovation-driven company which means we will continue to invest in R&amp;D that delivers customer value; three we are leveraging our R&amp;D investment across both the Service Provider and Enterprise customer base; four we are diversifying that customer base by broadening our Service Provider business and by expanding breadth and depth in both Service Provider and Enterprise; and five we are complementing our systems strategy with the software business centered on the one Junos platform.
Our long-term view is positive.
Certainly the near-term environment requires continued caution and we're addressing that with a focus on execution and adherence to our operating principles.
Trends of mobile Internet and cloud have created the potential for transformational opportunity for Juniper.
With great innovation and great execution we believe we are positioned very well to capitalize on the opportunity in front of us.
With that I'll hand off to Stefan.
Thanks Kevin.
It's a pleasure to join the earnings call this quarter.
In February while attending the Mobile World Congress Bob Muglia and I had the opportunity to present our strategy innovation agenda focused on systems and software.
As we articulated Juniper's strategy for the new network enables customers to improve economics and experiences of networking.
We are doing this by offering a common network platform with powerful and programmable systems on top of which Juniper and our ecosystem partners can build software-driven solutions.
We have aligned organizational structure to our new network strategy with the platform -- with the formation of the Platforms Systems Division and the Software Solutions Divisions which reflect how we manage our business.
We have introduced the New Network Platform Architectures which allow us to view our products solutions and value propositions through the customer lens segmented by network domain.
We are an innovation-driven company which partners closely with our customers to solve the hardest networking problems.
A critical component of our strategy is our commitment to leveraging our R&amp;D investment in order to develop solutions that span both Service Provider customers and our growing Enterprise customer base.
The new products we have brought to market in the last year from QFabric to T4000 to PTX to MX upgrades and ACX were all designed and built to deliver differentiated value for both segments.
We now have the strongest and most robust portfolio in the history of the company.
The architectural approach we are taking with our innovation agenda requires patience and close work with our customers.
We are in the midst of that and we feel good about the progress we are making on our new products.
I'll walk through this in more detail starting with the core.
Several customers have embraced our vision of the Converged Supercore and we are seeing robust early demand for both of our new products the T4000 and the PTX.
We saw good initial revenue performance for T4000 in the first quarter with recent buyers of the product including Australia-based Telstra; and U.K.-based Virgin Media.
We have strong customer engagement for the PTX across all geographies including orders from customers such as the London Internet Exchange.
We have been pleased with the customer reaction to the product.
We also had important product news on the Edge in early 2012.
In addition to the switch fabric upgrades we started shipping in Q4 2011 which allow our customers to double the performance of their MX installed base we also saw great traction for our 100-gig interfaces on MX which started shipping in the first quarter.
With the PTX T1600 and T4000 also delivering 100-gig interfaces we have a compelling 100-gig story from Converged Supercore to Edge.
The MX product line has been the most successful product in the history of Juniper and combined with the ACX product line for access and navigation which we will ship later this year we see continued growth opportunities across wireless and wireline applications.
Now let's turn to the campus and data center and talk about switching and fabric.
Our EX Series of product was our entry into the switching market.
These products continue to be a key lever in our drive into the enterprise across campus and data center applications.
The next step in our data center innovation agenda has been to simplify the next-generation data center networks to one layer driving capital efficiencies and significant operational benefits for the virtual data center and emerging clouds.
We believe our QFabric sets the industry standard for performance and simplicity and we are satisfied with the customers' response to this technology since we introduced it last year.
We now have over 150 customers for the QFX product line and are seeing them embrace the solution in a variety of different configurations ranging from top-of-rack installations to full fabric deployments.
We are pleased to have the first full fabric deployments running in live production.
Those deployments include Qihoo 360 in China and Australia-based Oracle.
In Q1 we also had a QFabric win in Europe at Jan Yperman hospital in Belgium.
Customer feedback overall is good and we are encouraged with the pipeline we are building.
So overall in switching and fabric we are pleased with the progress.
We are seeing success in data center and campus and our architectural innovation is gaining customer traction.
One of the main drivers behind the early success we are seeing has been very good execution in R&amp;D.
Our approach has always been about silicon systems and software and you're seeing all 3 coming together in our new products.
Our Trio chipset is powering the MX and T4000 while our Express chipset optimized for high-capacity transport is the reason the PTX maintains 4x the density of any competing product.
We have also done a tremendous amount of work in our Junos R&amp;D program delivering capabilities which are key to the customer experience with our products.
We are delivering a single network operating system to more easily integrate into customer workflow and provide an open programmable platform for rapid service innovation.
I'll conclude my comments by highlighting a few key takeaways.
From silicon to systems to software we are executing on our innovation agenda.
Customer feedback around our solution has been very positive.
All of our new products are in active customer engagements across all geographies resulting in design wins trials and live deployments.
The innovations we are bringing to market are architecture-driven.
They are designed in collaboration with our customers and in response to their needs.
And as with any new architecture implementation is a multistage process.
Again we are pleased with the progress we are seeing and how we are delivering against our innovation agenda.
I will now turn the call over to Robyn.
Thank you Stefan and good afternoon everyone.
Juniper's results in the March quarter reflect our focus on disciplined operational excellence with revenue and earnings exceeding our guided ranges.
We are pleased with the early customer demand for our new products reflected in orders for PTX T4000 and QFabric.
While we are still in the early phases of these new product cycles customer feedback on our disruptive innovation is highly encouraging.
We saw a sequential increase in Service Provider revenue driven primarily by large U.S.
customers.
As anticipated the orders we received in the third quarter of 2011 contributed to this quarter's strength in Service Provider revenue.
This was offset by an expected decline in Enterprise as a result of typical seasonality and our strong fourth quarter performance in Federal routing.
While we believe the long-term demand fundamentals are intact many customers continue to exercise care in the investment prioritization and project deployment.
We are focused on executing our strategy while prudently managing the near-term.
Looking at our demand metrics for the quarter.
Book-to-bill was slightly below 1.
Product deferred revenue was roughly flat sequentially.
Total revenue was $1 032 000 000 a decline of 8% sequentially and 6% year-over-year.
Verizon continues to be a strategic customer accounting for approximately 15% of total revenue this quarter.
This was driven by demand for our routers switches security solutions and services across Verizon's wired and wireless networks.
For the first quarter GAAP diluted earnings per share were $0.03.
GAAP diluted earnings included $0.03 impact for charges associated with the write down of an equity investment restructuring and other items.
Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share was $0.16 down $0.12 sequentially and down $0.16 from a year ago.
The decline from the first quarter of 2011 was primarily due to lower revenue and gross margins.
Now let me provide some color on revenue by region business segment and market.
In the first quarter the Americas were approximately 51% of total revenue; EMEA 30%; and APAC 19%.
Americas' revenue was up 2% sequentially and declined 9% year-over-year.
The sequential growth was primarily due to the largest U.S.
service providers whilst the year-over-year decline was mainly due to regional and content service providers.
EMEA revenue was down 23% sequentially and up 2% year-over-year.
This sequential decline was primarily attributable to comparisons against the record Q4 and a decline in Service Provider revenue in Southern and parts of Central Europe.
APAC revenue declined 3% sequentially and 12% year-over-year.
While Japan showed sequential growth due to better performance in Service Provider it was down compared to a strong quarter last year as we completed a large Service Provider deployment.
We did see a slowdown in revenue across the rest of the region.
Now let me review our revenue by segment.
Platforms Systems Division revenue was $824 million down 8% both sequentially and year-over-year.
PSD router product revenue was $458 million down 4% sequentially and 21% year-over-year.
The sequential decline was due to a decrease in spending in Enterprise.
The year-over-year decline was due to lower spending by international U.S.
regional and content service providers.
Total router revenue including both PSD and SSD was $479 million.
Total switching product revenue was $124 million down 21% sequentially from a record level in the fourth quarter.
On a year-over-year basis switching was up strongly at 23% driven by EX4500 and EX2200 as well as an increase in shipments of our QFabric solution.
Software Solutions Division revenue in the first quarter was $208 million down 9% sequentially and up 3% year-over-year.
High-end SRX product revenue for the quarter remained strong.
We saw increases sequentially and year-over-year driven by Service Provider demand.
We expect high-end SRX revenues to continue to fluctuate with the timing of customer deployments.
Enterprise security was down sequentially and year-over-year as we worked to improve the feature offering of our Enterprise security customers.
Looking more closely at the markets we address Service Provider revenue was $685 million up 1% sequentially due to strength in routing and security.
Revenue was down 8% on a year-over-year basis due to reduced demand in routing.
Enterprise revenue was $347 million down 22% sequentially and 3% year-over-year.
The sequential decline was due to lower routing business coming off a strong Q4 in Federal and seasonality in switching and security.
Year-over-year the decline was due to lower Enterprise routing and security.
For the quarter Service Provider was 66% of total revenue and Enterprise was 34% of total revenue.
Moving onto gross margins and operating expenses.
Non-GAAP gross margins for the first quarter was 62.6% compared to 63.3% last quarter.
Product gross margins were 64.6% of product revenue up slightly on a sequential basis.
As expected our product gross margins continue to be negatively impacted by product and geographic mix as well as inventory-related costs.
Services gross margins were 56.8% down nearly 4 points from the prior quarter.
This was primarily the result of the reset of variable compensation and an increase in spare parts related to the new product introductions.
While the pricing environment continues to be competitive our strategy remains consistent to differentiate on innovation and focus on cost improvements through our supply chain.
Non-GAAP operating expenses increased sequentially as expected to $523 million driven by typical Q1 increases in employee expenses.
Looking at headcount we ended the quarter with 9 218 employees a sequential increase of 89 as we continue to hire strategically to support our long-term objectives.
Non-GAAP operating margin for the quarter was 12% due to increased operating expenses and lower gross margins.
Looking at segment contribution margins which reflect revenues less expenses directly attributable to the segment organization.
For PSD the contribution margin was 37%; and for SSD contribution margin was 39%.
The sequential decline for both segments was primarily due to lower revenue and higher operating expenses.
The GAAP tax rate was 30.1% for the quarter.
The non-GAAP tax rate was 25.8% up 2.1 points from the prior quarter.
As a reminder the tax rate shows a sequential and year-over-year increase due to the expiration of the R&amp;D tax credit at the end of 2011.
Looking at the balance sheet.
We ended the quarter with $4.2 billion of total cash and investment.
This was a reduction of $77 million from the prior quarter is mainly the result of the acquisitions of both Mykonos and the assets of BitGravity.
Our net cash and investment was $3.2 billion.
Cash flow from operations was $102 million.
Cash flow was lower sequentially due to the lower income generated this quarter and was impacted by the semi-annual bond interest payment.
DSO was 39 days in the quarter down from 46 days last quarter but in line with 38 days in the first quarter of last year.
CapEx and depreciation were consistent with prior quarters.
We repurchased $51.6 million or 2.4 million shares at an average price of $21.75.
Our policy remains consistent that over time we aim to offset the dilutive impact of our employee stock programs.
Now I will review our outlook.
As a reminder these metrics are provided on a non-GAAP basis except for revenue and share count.
Looking ahead we will manage the business assuming the near-term environment requires continued caution.
We will remain focused on executing our strategy while maintaining a balanced approach to the near and long term.
Given this view we are expecting revenues to range from $1 030 000 000 to $1 060 000 000.
Both gross margins and operating expenses for the second quarter are expected to be roughly in line with the first quarter.
As a result we expect operating margins for the second quarter to range from 12% to 14%.
We anticipate that operating margins should improve from this level through the rest of the year.
This is expected to result in a second quarter non-GAAP diluted EPS of between $0.15 and $0.17 per share and assumes a flat share count and a tax rate of 29%.
This tax rate assumes that there is no renewal of the R&amp;D tax credit.
In summary we will continue to navigate the near-term environment carefully.
Our new products are gaining momentum as customers see the value of our disruptive innovations.
We are focused on disciplined operational execution driving progress on our new product trend introductions and investing in critical areas of our business.
I want to thank our fabulous employees for their dedication and hard work.
Their commitment to innovation is key to our success in delivering the new network.
And with that I'll hand it over to the operator for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Jeff Kvaal with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Kevin this one might be for you.
I think that we have seen a loss in the overall carrier industry about a slowdown over the last few quarters according to their CapEx budgets included the first quarter.
You folks though seemed to have been able to manage through that with a seasonally up quarter.
What can you tell us about the spending patterns for the rest of the year? Should we be expecting further improvements in your Service Provider revenues through the year? Or is this sort of where we are and caution from here? I think -- first of all I think it's perhaps a bit too early to outline what we think will happen for carrier capital expenditures for the full year.
Obviously we look at the guidance that our large customers provide for capital expenditures.
And I think there's a couple of things that we observe one is that with our large U.S.
tier-1 Service Providers.
In Q1 their capital expenditures were about 21% to 22% of what they've guided for full year which does show that there's -- it's reverting back to a more seasonal pattern that we've seen several years ago at least with that Q1 number.
There's still are significant headwinds in Europe and I think that's that one that we've seen service providers be very cautious in their capital expenditures.
And so I think it's still a fairly dynamic environment.
I think our focus is going to be clearly on execution.
Now as we've got these new products in market and we're engaging with customers for the architectural designing win and the trials to get these products deployed and drive revenue that's going to be our primary focus.
But overall I'd say it's still a bit of a mixed bag and it's too early to call.
Our next question comes from line of Brent Bracelin with Pacific Crest Securities.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Kevin I appreciate the innovation agenda and the message you've made here.
But as I look at the expense structure OpEx as a percentage of sales is now north of -- slightly north of 50% of revenue that's actually the highest in 8 years.
How should we think about getting a return on those investments? And is this just kind of the bottom and we should start to see a more rationalization of R&amp;D expenses going forward? Just trying to understand that disconnect between this rise in OpEx that we've seen here again 8-year high versus getting a good return making sure we're getting a good return on that investment.
Yes.
I think it's a very valid question.
Certainly we're at an interesting point in the evolution of the company in that we've just released some very significant products.
And so the R&amp;D expenditures for those products are at the peak as we're releasing those whether it's PTX T4000 QFabric as an example and yet the revenue hasn't kicked in on those products.
So as a result we end up with an operating expense envelope that's higher as a percentage of revenue than we would like long term.
So the key for us right now is drive execution on the go-to-market side and drive that top line revenue to get leverage on the R&amp;D investment.
Now clearly the operating principles that we've stated for 2012 are clear that we view that Q1 to be the point that we're going to build some operating leverage throughout the year and much of that's going to come from top line revenue.
But clearly it's up to us to really drive execution in market and translate the investment we've made in R&amp;D to top line revenue and a return for shareholders.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Marshall with the ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Looking at the gross margins here I think this is -- gross margins have been headed down 6 out of the last 7 quarters I believe.
And so I guess the trend is pretty clear.
I'm wondering due to the comments with respect to operating margins coming up for the rest of the year and you just -- commenting that that's as far it's going to be driven by revenue.
Should we expect some margin on the gross margins side to expand as the new products ramp at higher margins than current existing product margins? Any color there will be helpful throughout the year.
In terms of the gross margins what I said in my prepared remarks was that actually product revenue -- our product gross margins were up slightly quarter-over-quarter and that was reflective of the slightly higher routing mix in the overall product revenue.
So in terms of the headline gross margin number at 62.6% it is a decline quarter-over-quarter but it was mainly the result in fact primarily the result of the services gross margin.
So what we've seen this quarter with services gross margin they actually went to 56.8% as a result of the increase in employee expenses typical of the first quarter but also an increase in spare parts costs because we are bringing the new products to market.
So those costs were up quarter-over-quarter.
So from an overall gross margin perspective we expect them to be roughly flat in the second quarter in line with revenue.
As we improve or increase the proportion of routing revenue to total revenue for product the gross margins will increase.
And so yes as Kevin said we're expecting to drive leverage in the model through the top line but we're also looking at improvements in the product gross margins as we move forward here with the new product introductions as well.
Our next question comes from the line of Simona Jankowski with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Maybe I'll just get Stefan into the mix here.
Stefan we missed you last week at the Open Networking Summit so I just wanted to ask you some questions around that.
In particular how do you see QFabric now fitting in within the trend toward software-defined networking? And also it seems like some key customers like Google and Verizon are now embracing software-defined networking-type technologies as opposed to QFabric and some of the customer wins you've pointed to seemed to be somewhat smaller types of enterprises or hospitals and things like that.
So where do you see demand at this point shaping up for QFabric? And then just lastly on that topic of the 150 customers you talked about roughly what percent are deploying the full fabric versus the top-of-rack solution? So let me start by talking a little bit about the Open Networking Summit where actually my team was well represented.
Michael Beesly our CTO presented together with one of our customers on the data center side to talk about how we see the use of SDN type technology in the data center and for enterprises specifically.
So when I think about SDN I see a lot of the goals that we've outlined for the new network in terms of improved economics experiences and unleashing innovation on top of the network reflected in the industry movement that is SDN.
And certainly we have been at the forefront of that movement through opening up APIs into our operating system with the Junos SDK through supporting all of the various technologies that are parts of SDN whether that be OpenFlow or BD [ph] BTE or PCE.
We are going to continue to focus on the programmability as one of the key aspects that we can deliver with Junos.
So when you then say "Okay what's the use of that technology in the data center?" One of the key things to realize is that virtualization drives the need to reconfigure the network but also drives performance in the network.
So a flat anything in connectivity between the services is very important for an SDN-type deployment.
And certainly the customers that have adopted QFabric whether that's a Thomson Reuters or whether that's a Deutsche Boers or more recently Qihoo 360 have all seen that benefit play out in the physical infrastructure.
And then on top of that they will make sure that they have the probability to actually deploy the services on top of that infrastructure.
So we don't see that there's a choice between SDN or QFabric.
QFabric is part of our new network strategy and programmability is always going to be at the forefront of that strategy and SDN share some of those goals.
Now lastly to your point around the 150 customers so we have a mix of deployments for the customers who have adopted the QFX product line.
They range from top-of-rack to full fabric.
The reason they adopt the product line is because we have strategic alignment with them on the architecture that they want to deploy going forward.
And so the focus for us is to give them a great experience as they adopt the key pieces of technology and there's a good number of them that actually adopt the full fabric and as I mentioned the first 2 in live deployment as of the first quarter.
So we're very happy with the progress that we're making there and just continue to focus on execution with the customer engagements.
Our next question comes from the line of Ehud Gelblum with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> A couple of things some you may not answer; others hopefully you will.
Robyn any color you can give us in terms of the revenue totals in QFabric now T4000 and PTX and/or any kind of bogies or targets you have for the full year for any of them? Would you be helpful for us to get a sense as to how they'll grow or how they'll -- what percentage they look like right now? And then when you have a QFabric sale a full QFabric sale like some of the customers you mentioned can you give us a sense as to what percentage of that is top-of-rack versus what percentage is the interconnect part the other parts? So what I'm trying to get at is if someone is actually buying a bunch of top-of-rack switches but hasn't fully committed yet to the interconnect had they but 70% of the solution already? Or is it only 20 or 30% and that's much more to go if you have the interconnect? And then finally on the Edge securities side you said you were working on some features and I think a lot of third parties out there say that you've been losing some share on the Edge and the security side.
If you can talk to us about that business and what you can do to restore your position on the Edge and security would be great.
In terms of the T4000 PTX revenue and QFabric revenue we haven't disclosed those and we're not going to now.
They're modest amounts of revenue.
Obviously QFabric is growing a couple of quarters now revenue that is growing nicely.
PTX it was the first quarter of revenue and we're very pleased with the revenue that we recorded in the quarter and as Stefan mentioned the orders that we received for that.
In terms of T4000 the same thing.
Obviously we started shipping late in the fourth quarter.
Again first full quarter of revenue and we're pleased with the customer engagement that we have on that front.
In terms of the ramp of those products it's too early to call that at this point.
We will talk a little bit more about that at the Analyst Meeting in a few weeks here.
So Ehud this is Stefan.
If I can just expand on the QFabric part of your question.
As we look at the QFabric product line all of our customers it's an architectural discussion and we start with whatever they want to start with whether the top-of-rack that they need to  deploy has to deploy 10-gig service they can leverage their investment through taking the on-ramp to the QFabric so it's a gradual approach that they can take in order to deploy their capital more efficiently going forward.
Certainly with the distributive nature of top-of-racks you made a good step forward in adopting the full system if you have deployed the top-of-racks and it will make it significantly simpler.
And as their businesses dictate that additional performance of a data center they're going to go do that.
But we're very happy with the kind of architectural alignment we have with the customers and the road that they're on.
Yes.
I'll comment on the third part of your question specifically on security.
I think it was a -- this was a strong quarter for us with the SRX.
I think it was roughly within $1 million of the highest quarter we've had of SRX revenue.
And I mean it reflects the strength that we're seeing in the scenarios for Service Provider and I think we've been very transparent that the work we're doing around our security designer software which is basically software that is the user interface for configuring and managing these security devices in the enterprise we had an initial release -- or a release of that software in Q1.
We've got some further releases coming throughout the year.
We've been very open with our customers.
And so the focus that we have in many ways on our security agenda is to really address the opportunity to improve the user interface and user experience for enterprise customers as they configure and manage these security devices and we're seeing good response thus far in the quarter from the work that we've done and we've got a good road map and I think at the Financial Analyst Meeting we'll provide a deeper dive on the overall end-to-end security strategy.
Our next question comes from the line of Rod Hall with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to -- Robyn just to clarify your comment on operating margins just to make sure I got it.
You're saying that operating margin will increase sequentially each quarter going forward or that it will just be higher in future quarters than it is now? I just wanted to clarify that.
The second thing I wanted to ask was on the APAC revenue decline.
If you guys could give any color on that I thought it was down 12% year-over-year so just any color on what's happening there anything specific.
And then circling back to that comment on revenue proportions and so on the T4000 I'm just curious if you could give us any kind of idea whether that -- would that be the majority of routing revenue as you exit the quarter -- or core routing revenue that is as you exit the year I mean? Or is that more of a 2013 event when that becomes the majority of core routing revenue? Okay.
So in terms of operating margin what I said in the prepared remarks is that Q2 will be somewhere between 12% and 14% reflective of the flat to up revenue with similar gross margins and similar OpEx to the first quarter.
Our operating principle is to expand operating margins through the year and so we're very focused on that as Kevin mentioned and as I mentioned in my prepared remarks in terms of continuing to drive revenue growth and continuing to drive operational efficiencies across the company as well.
So in terms of APAC what I talked about in my prepared remarks and then maybe Kevin would like to comment as well was that we did see year-over-year declines.
The primary reason for that is Q1 of last year which was pre-tsunami if you remember tsunami was 03/11.
We actually had completed in the first quarter a large service provider deployment in Japan.
We talked about that at the time.
And so our year-over-year comparisons were very high for Q1 of last year and so that was the year-over-year decline story in Japan.
We did see a sequential increase in Service Provider demand in Japan which we were pleased about.
And I'll just add to that I think we saw an opportunity in China that pushed out of Q1 that we're still focused on and I think as Robyn said we've got a very good Service Provider business in Japan and relationship in Japan.
But we have an opportunity in Japan to diversify our customer base and expand beyond the set of service providers into other service providers and into more enterprise customers through our partners in Japan.
And so I look at the emerging market opportunities that we have and China and India and how we continue to drive execution and diversifying the customer base in Japan.
And let me finally comment on some of the new products.
So with our newest release of Junos we support the T4K the MX upgrade as well as the PTX.
So as we look at customer qualifications for those the PTX have contributed minimal revenue in the quarter and we see a qualification time that is in the 9- to 12-month range typically for such a new system.
And then from there our customers we'll move to deployment.
On the T4000 had a slightly higher revenue contribution in the quarter and we would expect the qualification times to be in the 6- to 9-month range with that type of upgrade.
And again customers will deploy the capital prudently as they move through the year once they have the system qualified.
And then last but not least on the MX we saw good uptake on the MX upgrades in the quarter as we enable those with our new release of Junos and we're optimistic about the traction of those upgrades as we move through the year.
Our next question comes from the line of Nikos Theodosopoulos from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions.
Stefan the Service Provider router market last year grew below 10% after many years of growing stronger double digits.
Do you think we're in a new secular growth rate in routing? Or do you think we can recover back to that double-digit -- strong double-digit growth rate? And then Kevin a question for you.
The company goals had been 20% revenue growth 25% operating margin.
Do you see those goals as still achievable? Obviously this year wouldn't be the case but do you still see those as targets? Or do you feel new targets need to be established for the company? So on router growth I think what we saw -- what we are seeing overall is that certainly IP technology is a bigger bigger portion of what drives the business for Service Provider.
However as Kevin mentioned we think service are going -- service providers are going to continue to be cautious with their CapEx and that applies to all areas of the business.
So I think it's a little bit too early to call the market growth for the rest of the year.
Certainly as we work with our Service Provider customers and we see their plans for deployment of capital towards the markets we address I think we're in a very good position.
But the overall environment for our Service Provider CapEx is something that will remain somewhat uncertain throughout the rest of the year as we stated.
Yes.
Nikos I'll take your second question and refer back to the operating principles that we've stated for 2012 and I think -- your first question on what will addressable market do in growth is a relevant question because one of the operating principles we have is we got to drive to grow faster than the market.
And so when markets expand faster that gives us more opportunity to grow and when they expand slower.
We do think we're in a growth market but frankly the focus is going to be as the operating principle states which is growing faster than the market.
And then the second part of your question is the way to drive operating leverage on the op margin is to drive the top line revenue by monetizing this great set of new products that we've just released in the marketplace.
And we've been working hard for a number of years on these products the silicon that goes into these products the systems and the software put together with an architectural approach.
And now that we have these products in market it's up to us to really drive execution and monetize that investment that we've made in R&amp;D.
And so the operating principle that states growing and expanding the operating margin from Q1 combined with the operating principle about growing faster than the market would be sort of the guiding principle.
So Robyn anything else you want to add.
No I think that's good.
In terms of absolute numbers and that type of thing in terms of the model we're obviously not putting out a new model at this point.
We're talking about the operating principles and growing faster than the market in this environment.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Sue with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Kevin can you share your observations of the Service Provider orders on a month-to-month basis? And I ask since Verizon was one of the first carriers to fall off and is now one of the first to return.
Does your order flow point to a return to a cycle? I recognized that some Europeans are still weak if their deterioration or just caution which implies that time frame for a return.
And then Robyn just a quick question.
Routers if we do -- return to a cycle can we still get to 68% gross margins? I understand a lot of that is mix related but do you feel that there's a structural drop in margins for the router market? I'll take the first one and then hand it over to Robyn.
Look in the Service Provider marketplace the observation that I would have is there's -- certainly in Europe there's a geographic commonality that's sort of impacted by the macro situation in Europe that creates a certain pattern of cautiousness on those service providers.
Then on other service providers it's on a case-by-case basis.
It sort of depends on where they are in the project cycle and how they prioritize things.
In some cases as they're growing their mobile Internet business they may have one set of priorities and then shift to other priorities.
So there's not a common pattern that you see across all of them.
But the one thing that is common is certainly they've built their business around delivering value to their customers in the form of networks and those networks are transitioning to IP packet-switched network which creates opportunity for us.
So that is the one commonality that I see in Service Providers.
But there's not some common pattern -- your question was kind of month-to-month.
There wasn't some common pattern that I would say fit all service providers.
There's some geographic and then it's kind of case-by-case depending on the customer's situation.
Yes.
Mark in terms of the gross margins I mean in the near-term as I said before we do expect the gross margins to stay in this range.
So for Q2 we believe that they'll be roughly flat with the first quarter reflective of some modest increase at the high end and in terms of revenue but the gross margins will be roughly the same.
In terms of competition and pricing and that type of thing in the marketplace we obviously are in a competitive market.
We have been for a long period of time.
Our strategy is very clear though.
We deliver innovation to the market which drives tremendous efficiencies in CapEx and also in OpEx for our customers.
And so that is our main focus in terms of delivering the innovation to market.
And we will continue to work on the gross margin structure both in terms of the cost side but also as the mix of products increases particularly with the new products.
We'll see gross margins increase as well.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Silverstein with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions if I may.
Robyn can you comment on pricing environment relative to what you've seen in the past? And secondly in terms of your guidance we're looking flat to up $30 million depending upon if you were to come in within the range Kevin or Robyn can you comment on what the different drivers of that guidance in terms of ramping the new products? And I recognize -- we're talking about very small base business at this point for those new products but if you could comment your expectations of the existing business in terms of growth or decline versus the growth in the new products to get you that guidance that will be appreciated.
Yes.
In terms of the revenue guidance for the second quarter we are looking at flat to slightly up in terms of revenue overall.
And in terms of the sectors what we're anticipating is obviously flat to slightly up from a Service Provider perspective and also from an Enterprise perspective just given the current environment.
In terms of the overall gross margins I think you talked about -- I'm sorry it was pricing I miswrote that.
So the pricing environment as I mentioned in the last question on gross margins it's obviously a competitive environment.
It has been for quite some time in terms of the market dynamics.
But it hasn't changed our philosophy in terms of delivering innovation to the market and total cost of ownership for our customers.
I mean clearly as Kevin has mentioned before on the earnings call we will compete on price to win new customers on a selective basis.
And so we will continue to do that on a selective basis particularly as it relates to extending our reach into certain customers and certain markets and geographies.
But overall the market environment is pretty consistent with what it's been over the last number of quarters.
Our next question comes from the line of Tal Liani with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Two questions first is just a clarification on gross margin.
If revenues go back to date this quarter then would have been back at their historical levels let's say of last quarter -- last year's first quarter.
Would margins be in the same level? Or is there an impact of pricing and the aggressiveness of competitors I just couldn't understand this part.
So that's the first question.
Yes if the mix of product with similar to the mix of product of Q1 of last year the gross margins would have been similar to what they were a year ago.
There wouldn't be that big a difference in terms of the line items of gross margins on the individual products are pretty consistent with were they were a year ago.
So that's why in terms of my discussion on the call it is still mainly the result of product mix with our routing proportion of revenue being relatively low compared to historical averages.
We have time for one last question and it comes from the line of Tim Long with Bank of Montréal.
Just a question on visibility if we could.
Maybe if we just go back to the March quarter pretty meaningful beat there and I know Robyn it's a tough environment and also you mentioned the orders from Q3 hitting.
Could you just kind of give us a sense as to how much of that -- whether it was $50 million $60 million of revenue beat was due to previous orders and how much of that was in the quarter? And then secondly when you look into the second quarter has the visibility improved or not? And is there any deals that had been previously signed that will continue to contribute into the second quarter like they did in the first quarter? In terms of Q1 Q1 pretty much unfolded as we were expecting.
Obviously slightly better with our U.S.
-- largely with Service Provider customers.
So slightly better.
But basically the quarter unfolded as we expected it to unfold.
In terms of our visibility as we go into Q2 it's about the same.
We have obviously -- our product book-to-bill for Q1 was just under 1.
We exit Q1 with slightly less backlog then we entered the quarter but that's typical of the first quarter.
And actually we are pretty pleased with the backlogs that we have going into the second quarter.
Our deferred revenue from a product perspective is essentially flat sequentially so we've got visibility to the balance sheet as well.
And we also obviously continue our dialogues with customers not just about the new product but existing products and design wins that we work with them on and other customer opportunities.
So in terms of visibility it's about the same as it was coming into the first quarter.
No better no worse than 90 days ago.
I would like to turn the floor back over to management for closing comments.
Thank you operator.
And we'd like to once again thank you all for joining us today and we hope to see many of you at our Financial Analysts Meeting here in Sunnyvale in June.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Juniper Networks Second Quarter 2012 Financial Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Kathleen Nemeth Vice President Investor Relations for Juniper Networks.
Thank you Ms.
Nemeth you may begin.
Thank you operator.
Good afternoon and thank you everyone for joining us today.
Here on the call today are Kevin Johnson Chief Executive Officer; Robyn Denholm Chief Financial Officer; and Bob Muglia Executive Vice President Software Solutions division.
Please remember when listening to today's call that statement concerning Juniper's business outlook economic and market outlook future financial operating results and overall future prospects are forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors including economic conditions generally or within the networking industry changes in overall technology spending the network capacity requirements for service providers the timing of orders and shipments manufacturing and supply chain constraints variation in the mix of products sold customer perception and acceptance of our products litigation and other factors listed in our most recent 10-Q filed with the SEC.
All statements made during this call are made only as of today.
Juniper undertakes no obligation to update the information in this conference call in the event facts or circumstances change after the date of this call.
In discussing the financial results Robyn will first present results on a GAAP basis and for purposes of today's discussion will also review non-GAAP results.
For important commentary on why the management team considers non-GAAP information a useful view of the company's financial results please consult our 8-K filed with the SEC today.
For the detailed reconciliation between GAAP to non-GAAP results please see today's press release.
In general non-GAAP results exclude certain nonrecurring charges amortization of purchased intangibles and other acquisition charges and expenses related to stock-based compensation.
On today's call Robyn will also be providing forward-looking guidance.
As a reminder guidance is provided on a GAAP basis other than that with respect to revenue and share count.
All guidance is forward-looking and actual results may vary for the reasons I noted earlier.
GAAP guidance measures are not available on a forward-looking basis due to the high variability and low visibility with respect to certain charges which are excluded from the non-GAAP guidance estimate.
Please note that today's call is scheduled to last for 1 hour.
[Operator Instructions] With that I'll now turn the call over to Kevin.
Thanks Kathleen and welcome everyone.
All major financial metrics this quarter were in line or ahead of our guided ranges and we believe we executed well in what continues to be a challenging environment.
The go-forward macro outlook is mixed but we are focused on what's in our control.
We are seeing momentum building in routing and we see continued growth from our switching portfolio.
We are also making good progress on our path to improving the performance of our security business.
On the cost side we are taking steps to reduce ongoing OpEx through a series of targeted efficiency programs over the next several quarters and Robyn will take you through this in more detail.
Finally we continue to maintain a strong cash position and we intend to execute against our previously announced repurchase authorization of $1 billion.
I'm going to focus my comments today on our key priorities in this near-term environment and how we are executing against them.
I'll provide a brief update on the traction we are seeing in the market including with our new products and I've asked Bob Muglia who heads our Software Solutions division to join the call to talk about developments in security and software.
Robyn will also take you through our financial review and our outlook and then we will take your questions.
Our second quarter showed some good performance in key areas with routing and switching driving results.
We believe we are doing well in these markets because we bring a portfolio of products and solutions that deliver outstanding value to our customers.
Service providers and increasingly enterprises are embracing networks that are flatter that reduce complexity and cost while also delivering greater performance and scale.
We are helping customers drive more efficient OpEx and greater productivity from their networks.
The success of this approach we are taking with the customer can be seen in our expanding wireless footprint.
There are 3 in the 4 areas we believe we are well positioned to continue to expand our position wireless.
One is our MX Series which provides customers with a single solution for convergence on the Edge.
Second is our SRX offering in security.
We have built a strong footprint in helping large service providers secure mobile Internet traffic.
And third our new routing solutions to support service providers as they drive efficiency by collapsing multiple networks in the core.
Our PTX offering is off to a good start and we're deeply engaged with Verizon and others with this solution.
Our ACX Universal Access router is also shipping this quarter and is well positioned for the backhaul infrastructure necessary to carry rapidly increasing amounts of mobile traffic.
As we look after the second half of the year we continue to monitor the macro environment closely.
We feel pretty good about the U.S.
Tier 1 service providers based on our level of engagement and conversations with them.
We believe the data points suggest that we can anticipate a modest increase in second half spend as compared to the first half.
And as a result the overall U.S.
markets should continue to be an area of strength for us in the second half of the year.
This is offset however by uncertainty in Europe and slowing growth in some emerging markets.
On the Enterprise side our switching portfolio along with QFabric drove strong performance in the Enterprise.
I'm pleased to note that General Dynamics a leading global systems integrator in the aerospace and defense industries has deployed QFabric as part of its core network in 2 of its U.S.
data centers.
QFabric was chosen by General Dynamics for its ability to deliver scale performance and flexibility needed to deliver critical applications in support of their mission.
We have momentum in switching and we believe we will continue to outgrow the market despite the current mixed outlook for overall Enterprise spending.
We believe the public sector market will be challenging in light of the austerity measures in a number of countries and budget constraints in the U.S.
In security we are very focused on improving our market position.
SRX remains a strong product for customers where scale matters both at service providers and large enterprises.
And as we talked about at the Analyst Meeting we have a clear path to strengthen other elements of our portfolio.
The new security designer offering is one example and we like how the solution is coming together.
Bob will fill you in more in a moment.
Looking out over the second half of the year we are focused on execution near term while positioning the company to deliver on its long-term growth objectives.
To that end we have 3 clear near-term priorities.
First continue to drive momentum of our new products with the right sales and marketing efforts.
We're encouraged by our early progress particularly with our routing and data center offerings.
We set our revenue targets for new innovations at the Analyst Meeting and we are very focused on those.
Second we are aligning our resources with focus on the right projects and activities that drive performance now and keep us on a path to deliver meaningful innovations to our customers.
The priorities include revenue generation customer satisfaction and the next wave of innovation at Juniper.
Third we are aligning our overall cost structure for efficiency and effectiveness.
We are focused on driving operational excellence and productivity throughout the organization.
We are committed to delivering against the long-term model we laid out at the Analyst Meeting.
This includes ongoing initiatives across the company in areas like supply chain procurement systems and processes shared services and more.
We're also taking steps with respect to our cost structure and Robyn will take you through that in more detail shortly.
So to wrap up we had a good second quarter.
We believe we have executed well in the first half of 2012 that has remained challenging.
We're delivering good performance relative to the market in routing and switching and we are on a defined path to strengthen our product set and security.
Our new products are gaining traction in the market and we will continue to ramp this year and next.
As we look to the second half of the year we are not planning for any improvement in the macro environment.
To manage through this period we've set clear priorities for how we run the business with revenue generation resource allocation and careful cost management all top of mind.
Thanks again for your time today and I'll now turn the floor over to Bob Muglia.
Bob? Great.
Thanks Kevin.
It's great to be on the call with everyone today.
Last month at FAM Stefan and I shared our view of the new network architecture how we've aligned our 2 divisions around the domain-driven approach that syncs with our customers' view of their network and how we're approaching the marketplace from both the R&amp;D and go-to-market perspectives.
Just to recap that briefly our business is organized around 2 divisions: Systems and Software.
Within the Software Division at Juniper our philosophy is that software complements our systems.
So our 2 divisions work closely together.
In each division we target 3 businesses: routing switching and security.
And for those businesses we focus around the 7 domains that comprise the major components of the network whether we're talking to Service Provider or Enterprise customers.
This approach 2 customer segments 3 businesses and 7 domains or 2-3-7 enables Juniper to conduct business-focused conversations with our customers leveraging our unique understanding of networking technology and innovation to help them address their most pressing business challenges.
With that as a backdrop what I'd like to do with my time here today is zero in a little more on our strategy and progress in security and how that relates to our broader activities in software development as well as the Riverbed relationship that we announced earlier today.
I'll start with security as that has been a major area of focus for me since I arrived at Juniper last year.
We continue to be pleased with our leadership position for the high-end SRX within the Service Provider community.
In Q2 we saw good high-end SRX sales to SPs based largely on the growth of LTE networks and the benefit the SRX provides to the solution.
We recognized that we have work to do to regain our momentum in Enterprise security but in Q2 we did see quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year growth in Enterprise security for the first time in quite a while.
As we have commented recently we are enhancing the features and capabilities of the SRX platform to meet the needs of all enterprises from large customers to smaller deployments at the campus and branch level.
In the short term we are focused on management and the AppSecure portfolio our application visibility and control solution.
We are also building on our success in network security to deliver a next-generation content security services including building on our recent acquisition of Mykonos thus enabling security intelligence across the entire security ecosystem and transforming the customer experience.
Our focus on network management starts with Security Design which we talked about at FAM.
This is an application hosted on the Junos Space platform.
The interface is designed from the ground up to handle the breadth the security management challenges including NextGen firewall PoP firewall policy IPS network address translation policy and perhaps most importantly VPN management.
We've had 2 releases of the product thus far and security design is now deployed in production within a Tier 1 service provider.
We've collected a considerable amount of customer feedback from Enterprise accounts to whom we've given early access to the technology and we are quite pleased with their response.
We have put a significant investment in terms of both R&amp;D and customer engagement into developing Security Design and we believe it provides us with very capable security management.
Further releases later this year of Security Design will reflect the feedback we have received and we expect to see deployments beginning in Q4 continuing through 2013.
Hopefully you saw our press announcement today regarding our technology relationship with Riverbed.
I wanted to spend a few minutes on this because it will also play into our broader software strategy including security.
This relationship recognizes the key role application acceleration plays as the network and application layers begin to converge.
Both Juniper and Riverbed are focused on delivering high-performance security and scale in this environment.
As a part of the Riverbed relationship we are pleased that Riverbed has selected Junos Pulse as the mobile client for the delivery of their industry-leading application acceleration solution.
A key part of the relationship is our licensing of Riverbed's Layer 7 application delivery controller technology.
We plan to leverage this technology as a component in building out integrated solutions for scaling data center applications within the network.
There will be multiple components to this integrated solution existing Juniper systems and software capabilities license technologies such as Riverbed's and new technologies that we are developing internally over time.
The relationship with Riverbed is an important one as we think about our overall strategy for software within the context of market trends.
We start with the premise that software is core to our innovation strategy.
It complements our systems.
Today we have licensed strategic technology for application delivery that complements our existing platform and software assets.
This is important for the long term.
The Juniper products that we will build using the application delivery controller technology won't ship for some time.
Yet it's clear with the evolution of the new network that software such as this will play a bigger and bigger role across the routing switching and security businesses we serve.
We're making foundational investments today that position us well as the new network becomes more software-defined.
In summary this is an important time for the industry and for Juniper.
And software programmability will be key to the new network and -- of which software will play a major role.
We have a history in this space and we are investing today in building on our strengths both organically and via acquisitions of key technology.
We approach this opportunity that way we always approach innovation with a strong focus on understanding the customer and their needs.
Security plays a major role in these efforts and our business overall.
While we have been clear about some of the challenges we have had in the Enterprise we have made substantive progress and are positioned well for the future.
We know where we need to be and how to get there.
Security is a dynamic market and it is changing rapidly driven in particular by the impact of mobility.
That creates the opportunity for us to grow in this market.
With the strength of the SRX platform and the innovation underway with the Security Design we're well positioned and focused on executing our plan.
Thanks for your time and I'll turn it now over to Robyn.
Thank you Bob and good afternoon everyone.
Juniper's results in the second quarter were slightly higher than our guided ranges and reflected better operational performance.
We remain focused on executing our strategy to drive revenue growth and disciplined operational execution.
We believe the long-term demand fundamentals for high-performance networking are solid yet the near-term environment continues to be uncertain and many customers remain cautious.
Looking at our demand metrics for the quarter book-to-bill was greater than 1 and product deferred revenue and product backlog increased sequentially.
We saw good customer demand for our new products including the PTX T4000 and QFabric.
Total revenue was $1 074 000 000 a 4% sequential increase and a decline of 4% year-over-year.
As anticipated the sequential increase was due to good Enterprise and Service Provider growth in the Americas which offset weakness in the other regions.
The year-over-year decline was mainly due to Service Provider weakness in EMEA and in APAC.
In the second quarter Verizon accounted for approximately 12% of Juniper's total revenue.
This was driven by demand for our routers switches security solutions and services across Verizon's wired and wireless networks.
It also reflects initial revenue from their recently announced deployment of PTX.
For the second quarter GAAP diluted earnings per share were $0.11.
This includes a $0.02 gain from equity investments.
Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share were $0.19 up $0.03 sequentially and down $0.12 year-over-year.
The sequential increase was due to improved revenue and margin.
Now let me provide some color on revenue by region business segment and market.
In the second quarter the Americas were approximately 55% of total revenue; EMEA 28%; and APAC 17%.
Americas revenue was up 11% sequentially and 1% year-over-year.
The sequential increase was due to broad-based Enterprise strength with the exception of federal and financial services.
In Service Provider we saw higher revenue from cable content and some wireless and wireline customers.
On a year-over-year basis the growth was driven by Service Provider.
EMEA revenue was down 3% sequentially and 9% year-over-year reflecting ongoing weakness in Service Providers.
We see customers in EMEA continuing to take a cautious stance with their CapEx in response to the uncertain macro environment.
APAC revenue was down 4% sequentially and 12% year-over-year.
In Service Provider APAC excluding Japan was up 10% sequentially.
We continue to capture design wins with Service Providers in the region.
Year-over-year most of the region declined as a result of lower Service Provider demand.
Now let me review our revenue by segment.
Platforms Systems division revenue was $872 million up 6% sequentially and down 5% year-over-year.
PSD router product revenue was $488 million up 7% sequentially and down 16% year-over-year.
We had sequential increases in both Edge and core routing.
Year-over-year we saw a modest increase in core routing which was more than offset by a decline in Edge routing.
Total router product revenue including both PSD and SSD increased 6% from Q1 to $506 million.
We saw a good sequential increase in revenue from both T4000 and PTX.
Total switching product revenue increased 13% to $140 million.
We are pleased with the momentum of EX QFabric and wireless LAN which all grew sequentially and year-over-year.
SSD revenue in the second quarter was $202 million down 3% sequentially and 1% year-over-year.
Total security product revenue was $159 million down 6% sequentially and flat year-over-year.
The sequential decline was the result of slower demand in Service Provider and growth in Enterprise.
As expected high-end SRX product revenue declined sequentially and grew year-over-year as customer deployment timing continues to drive fluctuations in Service Provider revenues for this product.
In the quarter we did see a good sequential increase in Enterprise.
We continue to see good customer traction with recent design wins with financial services and internet phones.
Branch SRX which is reported as part of PSD was up both sequentially and year-over-year.
Looking more closely at the markets we address Service Provider revenue was $681 million down 1% sequentially.
Revenue was down 7% on a year-over-year basis as weakness in APAC and EMEA offset strength in the Americas.
Enterprise revenue was $393 million up 13% sequentially and flat year-over-year.
On a year-over-year basis growth in EMEA and APAC offset a moderate decline in the Americas.
For the quarter Service Provider was 64% of total revenue and Enterprise was 36% of total revenue.
Moving on to gross margins and operating expenses.
Non-GAAP gross margins for the second quarter increased to 63.4% compared to 62.6% last quarter.
Non-GAAP product gross margins were flat with the first quarter.
A favorable routing mix was offset by a higher switching mix and some cost increases in security.
Non-GAAP services gross margins were 59.4% up 2.6 points from the prior quarter.
This was a result of a higher revenue due to service contract renewals and lower costs.
Non-GAAP operating expenses decreased sequentially to $520 million.
Looking at headcount we ended the quarter with 9 373 employees a sequential increase of 155 as we continue to hire in sales and service with the goal of driving revenue growth.
Non-GAAP operating margin for the quarter was 15%.
This sequential increase of 3 points was due to higher revenue and improved gross margins and slightly lower operating expenses.
Looking at segment contribution margins PSD contribution margin was 40.3% of revenue up sequentially on improved revenue and gross margins.
For SSD contribution margin was 36.8% of revenues which is slightly lower sequentially due to decreased revenue and margins partially offset by reduced operating expenses.
The GAAP tax rate was 35.5% for the quarter.
The non-GAAP tax rate was 30.7% 4.9 points above the prior quarter due primarily to the geographic mix of income.
As a reminder the tax rate reflects the expiration of the R&amp;D tax credits.
Looking at the balance sheet we ended the quarter with $3.3 billion of net cash and investments.
Cash flow from operations was $212 million.
Cash flow was up sequentially reflecting higher earnings and good working capital performance.
DSO was 34 days in the quarter down from 39 days last quarter and in the second quarter of last year.
Capital expenditures and depreciation were up slightly from the prior quarter as we continue to build out our Sunnyvale campus.
We repurchased approximately 5 million shares for $94 million an increase of -- over the prior 2 quarters.
Now I will review our outlook for the third quarter.
And as a reminder these metrics are provided on a non-GAAP basis except for revenue and share count.
Looking ahead we expect customers to remain cautious.
We anticipate ongoing weakness in EMEA through the balance of the year and that Enterprise markets globally will continue to invest carefully.
We are making good progress on our new product introductions and we remain focused on driving revenue growth and disciplined operational execution.
For the third quarter we expect revenues to range from $1 040 000 000 to $1 075 000 000.
Gross margins are expected to be roughly flat sequentially at the high end of the revenue range.
Operating expenses are expected to increase by approximately $10 million due to annual employee merit increases.
We expect operating margins to range from 13% to 14%.
This is expected to result in non-GAAP diluted EPS of between $0.15 and $0.18 per share assuming a flat share count a tax rate of 31% and no renewal of the R&amp;D tax credits.
Before we go to Q&amp;A I'd also like to update you on 2 topics we discussed at our Financial Analyst Meeting in June.
First we recently announced a $1 billion increase in our share repurchase authorization.
Given the current market we intend to be more opportunistic in the near term.
Obviously we will calibrate our buybacks in future quarters with market conditions at the time.
But based on current trends we clearly recognize the opportunity to do more.
The second update is around our productivity and efficiency initiatives.
As I outlined at FAM actions are currently underway that will reduce ongoing operating expenses.
In 2013 we anticipate an operating expense reduction of approximately $150 million over our estimated 2012 levels with benefits beginning to be reflected in Q1 and the majority of the reduction occurring in the second half of 2013.
In summary given our view of the challenging near-term market conditions we will continue to execute with agility and flexibility while balancing the long-term needs of the business to deliver innovation and revenue growth.
I would like to thank our dedicated employees for their hard work and commitment.
They continue to be key to our success in delivering the new network.
And now I will hand it over to the operator for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Ehud Gelblum with Morgan Stanley Smith Barney.
Research Division</strong> I actually have a couple.
Kevin just a clarification.
When you're talking about wireless and a lot of opportunities you're getting in wireless you didn't mention MobileNext so I was wondering if that was kind of a -- just a slip-up or intentionally that wasn't really maybe the emphasis on MobileNext.
So that was just kind of a clarification.
Robyn you're talking about the gross margin mix and you said that routing was a positive driver of gross margin but then was offset by a negative gross margin mix in switching.
I'm wondering is that negative gross margin based on switching mix? In switching it's hard to say due to the entry of QFabric into the switching mix.
And if so can you give us a sense as to how large QFabric was and what you expect that to be in the next quarter and going forward and give us a sense as to how that grows? And if it doesn't that gross margin [indiscernible]? Thanks for your question Ehud I'll take the first question on MobileNext.
Certainly MobileNext we've made a lot of progress on MobileNext from a feature capability standpoint.
And the key enabler that MobileNext drives for us this gets the MX -- it's one of the services of that can run on the MX to make the MX an established footprint on the edge of the network in the wireless side.
And we've seen a lot of adoption of the MX as it's engaged with customers on the wireless side in the addition to the wireline side.
MobileNext will continue to build out new sets of features.
I'll let Bob talk a little bit about the new feature capabilities.
We're making slow but steady progress on MobileNext.
But the key for MobileNext is to establish the MX as a footprint in the wireless and we're pleased with the progress we're seeing in the MX and we continue to focus on the work that we're doing with MobileNext.
Bob do you want to comment just briefly on...
Yes I'll add to that.
We've shipped the EPC capabilities and GGSN capabilities of MobileNext and that is in production right now and running well at Elisa.
And we're getting feedback from our customers that there are a set of additional features that they're interested in seeing from us.
Consistent with what we set at FAM these include things like the enforcement capabilities and DPI capabilities.
All of these things EPC DPI the PCEF enforcement capabilities are all part of the Universal Edge and the set of broad services that run on our MX platform.
And the unique thing about that is that it provides these broad services for both wireline and wireless customers.
And so Ehud in terms of the mix comment on the call yes router mix was favorable in the quarter.
The other thing I mentioned on the call was that it was offset by a few costs on the security side which has to do with our deployments of some recently -- some recent wins in terms of the security side.
So that's what I mentioned that was offsetting the favorable mix on the router side.
Research Division</strong> I was actually talking about QFabric.
Can you give us a sense as to how large that was and has that impacted gross margin at all on the router side? Yes.
So in terms of QFabric we were pleased with the performance of all 3 lines of business in the switching area.
Both EX QFabric and wireless LAN were all up sequentially and year-over-year.
And in terms of gross margin that was a -- no impact on the gross margin average.
Our next question comes from the line of Simona Jankowski with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> The routing was better than expected in the quarter even though you highlighted some of the weakness in EMEA at Service Providers and also even though Verizon was down sequentially.
So can you just give us a bit more detail on what drove the upside there? And also just as an update on the T4000 which I know you highlighted the revenues in that product are they still tied to qualification or are we seeing actual deployments? And if not then when do you think we'll see the deployment revenue for that product? Thanks for the question Simona.
I'll take the second question and then we'll let Robyn comment on the overall router revenues for expectations.
The T4000 is -- as we come out with that product keep in mind it's a seamless upgrade to the existing T Series chassis.
And what we see customers doing now we have a number of customers who have purchased and implemented the chassis kit that allows those chassis now to be provisioned to be able to accept both the older T Series line cards as well as the new T Series T4000 line cards.
And then consistent with the way service providers go a number of them are going through certification testing and -- in that process.
But I think we're pleased with the level of engagement that we've gotten both with PTX and T4000 in the core.
And we're going to continue to stay focused as we work with customers through the certification process and then certainly as they do line card upgrades that presents more opportunity for us.
Yes.
And in terms of the overall mix of routing both core and Edge were up quarter-over-quarter.
Core was also up year-over-year which is obviously a favorable trend for the quarter.
So we were pleased with the routing mix in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> But just as far as a little bit of additional detail could you just highlight the source of that sequential increase? Because just by process of elimination it sounds like it was not EMEA and it was not Verizon.
So if you can just highlight a bit more if any incremental new wins or upgrades or what might be happening just with your other customers.
Yes thanks Simona.
I think -- it clearly was more U.S.-driven offset by some of the weakness in Europe.
And certainty within the U.S.
our Tier 1 Service Provider business performed well in addition to that.
So if you look at certain sectors of the U.S.
like the cable customers that we engage with cable did well.
There was also a strong performance in U.S.
cable providers and it's consistent with the value proposition and the messaging that we have overall in routing.
But I'd say net-wise it was mainly driven by strength in the U.S.
It's a combination of Tier 1 as well as our cable segment and offset a little bit by some of the weakness in Europe.
Our next question comes from the line of Rod Hall with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just one clarification for Robyn and then a question.
Clarification is on the gross margins in services.
Robyn you said that one of the drivers for the better margins were costs.
I just wonder if you could elaborate on that a little bit in terms of what you guys have changed with respect to costs there that helped the gross margins? And then the question is on the Riverbed deal.
I think I heard you guys say that it'd be some time before you'd ship products that would incorporate that Riverbed ADC software which makes sense.
I just wonder if in the meantime there's any opportunity to do joint deals or any kind of partnership out in the channel to serve customer needs? Yes I'll talk about the gross margin and then I'll hand it over to Bob.
So in terms of services gross margin it was good sequential increase in terms of gross margins for services driven by revenue growth quarter-over-quarter and also by cost as you mentioned Rod.
So on the cost side we've been talking about increased costs in the services space for a while due to architectural personnel and increased sparing and increased services capability to do with our new product introductions.
So clearly good cost management on an ongoing basis by the team in Services also helped this quarter with our gross margins.
Research Division</strong> Did you -- Robyn did you guys actually hold costs stable while revenues grew? Is that more what happened? Or did you actually reduced costs? We did reduce cost a little bit but also revenues increased in the quarter.
So it's a combination of both that's why I talked about both on the call.
So in the context of the Riverbed relationship there are really 2 parts to the relationship.
One part is working with Riverbed to incorporate their application acceleration technology into the Pulse mobile client.
And we will not really be very able to do a lot of go to market work with them in that space until that technology is integrated in but that is on its own schedule and we'll work with them to get ship dates at a little time.
The second piece is really the ADC technology that we licensed from them and we would anticipate that technology being built into Juniper products and being delivered to the market as a Juniper set of products.
So we are not -- there's plans to resell the Riverbed technology in that space.
Research Division</strong> Bob I guess what I was wondering is that it sounds like the ADC will take a while to build into products.
It's not going to happen overnight.
So -- but I assume that that's driven by a customer need.
Customers are wanting some ADC integration.
Is there any -- and there's no opportunity to work with them to do joint solutions for customers or something like that? Well there's always an opportunity and it was not -- there's nothing specific to announce at this time on that.
But we definitely see that this technology is very interesting.
We see there's an opportunity for software to add value on top of the systems that we build.
It is particularly interesting in the data center space.
This is one of the good examples of software services that are very complementary.
We also see long term that that technology is beneficial in other domains such as the Edge in the Service Provider space.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Marshall with the ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> A question with respect to gross margins and then a follow-up on the financial model.
But if you look at it your revenues were up about 4% sequential in the quarter but your gross margins were up almost roughly 100 basis points sequentially.
So I think that would imply that you have an increasing richness of the revenue mix as not all that improvements came from increased volumes.
I guess I'd love to hear the puts and takes there.
And then also how that transitions with respect to the September quarter because I would expect that the new products will be ramping faster than the older products and some of them carry obviously higher gross margins associated with them.
And so at the high end of the revenue guidance implies flat gross margins.
I guess I would expect they would be actually a little bit higher than that so would love some commentary there.
And then a follow-up would be can you talk a little bit about that 2% -- I'm sorry $0.02 dilution hit at well? I apologize I was -- actually missed the prepared remarks.
So in terms of the mix in the quarter affecting gross margin yes routing mix was up in the quarter and I mentioned in my prepared remarks that core was up both quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year.
And as we've discussed that does have a favorable impact in terms of gross margins.
So we're pleased with the gross margin performance in the quarter and do see that at the high end of guidance continuing into the third quarter.
In terms of the $0.02 we talked about a $0.02 favorable impact to the operating income due to a gain on investments.
I think that was the question.
Was that the question Brian? Research Division</strong> Yes I guess.
A follow-up on the September gross margins.
I mean all things else being equal if you're flat sequentially on the revenue side I would anticipate that you have an increasing richness of the mix and so margins would be up.
So I guess can you talk a little bit about what the offsets are that will be pulling that down if that would be the case? Yes.
So in terms of our guidance for the third quarter in terms of the trends that we see we obviously see a continuing weakness in EMEA in Service Provider through the end of the year.
Kevin mentioned that and so did I.
We also see continued positive momentum with the U.S.
Service Providers.
And obviously we also see some opportunities to increase revenue in terms of Enterprise.
So in terms of mix we're really calling it to be roughly flat going forward between Service Provider and Enterprise growth there.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Sue with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a clarification.
Just -- the Riverbed on the ADC side does that mean your Radware partnership ends? And then the question is with the assumption of a better second half what sort of seasonality should we expect later in the year? Should we think of similar sequential growth levels from last year or should we think of normal teen sequential growth rates? I ask since U.S.
service providers are improving but the environment is still tough.
And the European carriers it's been so long since they've upgraded their networks.
It seems like they are due for a big upgrade.
So I'm just trying to get a sense of how you feel about the -- how we finish the balance of the year.
I'll take the regular question first.
No it does not mean that our Radware partnership ends.
In fact we continue to work closely with Radware and delivery of their technology on top of the MX platform to a variety of customers particularly focused on the service provider edge.
And we'll be pleased even after we have product in the market that does application -- that does ADC technology on our own.
We'll be pleased to continue to work with Riverbed and service customers that want to use their technology.
Yes.
And Mark I'll take the second part of your question on seasonality.
What we see with U.S.
Tier 1 service providers seasonality first half versus second half is returning to sort of the more expected pattern that we saw with the exception of last year.
We think second half spending by the Tier 1 service providers in the U.S.
will be higher than first half.
If you just look at their guided CapEx something like 46% in the first half 54% in the second half is what you look at.
But if you just take the Tier 1 service providers they only represent about 25% of the total CapEx globally and I think the uptick in U.S.
I think is offset by the weakness that we see in Europe and other parts of Asia-Pacific.
So the net is I think we're taking a cautious position given the macro environment in Europe and continue to play to our strength with our business in the U.S.
LLC Research Division</strong> Kevin just a quick thought.
The networks -- a lot of the networks in Europe seem to be running above service-level agreements which implies that they have to upgrade.
What's the kind of feedback? Is it just still their -- the macro for them their balance sheets or their CapEx? And do you think that we'll get to a point where they have to upgrade? Yes it's a good question Mark and I think we've seen this pattern before.
The long-term demand fundamentals of growth in network traffic continue.
There's more devices there's more video there's more users there's more data centers there's just more traffic.
So as traffic continues to grow and if there's a slowdown or pause in some of the capital expenditures for routing in the service provider sector certainly that implies that customers are running their network hotter and that will be consistent with our view and our engagement with customers.
The question will be at what point do they either hit the point where they're running so hot that they need to make the investments or at what point do the economic conditions for those customers hit the situation where they start to do upgrades and build more capacity in their networks? But the important point I think is the long-term demand fundamentals remain intact.
Traffic continues to grow and every customer situation is different.
In certain cases it may be a function of their revenue.
In some cases it's a function of their balance sheet.
In some cases they're being cautious given the economic situation in the country that they reside.
But what we're doing is we're being very focused and very connected on -- with those customers to ensure that we're working proactively with them so that when they do start to spend and upgrade and launch new projects that Juniper is there with a great value proposition and prepared to help them do that.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeff Kvaal with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Robyn a question for you on the OpEx.
The numbers that you're providing are for a full year comparison of 2012 to 2013? And then the second part of that is why would it take so long for the reductions to filter into the financials? Yes.
So in terms of what I talked about in the prepared remarks the $150 million reduction in OpEx for 2013 is the full year-over-full year impact.
What we're expecting to see is that impact really starts to come in in Q1 of next year and increase over the full year.
And so as I said in my prepared remarks the second half of the year is where we see the majority of the reduction happening.
Research Division</strong> Why not get started on that process a little sooner? And then furthermore are there specific areas that we should be watching for the reductions? Yes yes.
As I outlined in FAM I mean we're working on productivity and efficiency initiatives across the company.
So it's quite surgical.
There are the things that we're actually targeting in terms of sort of long-standing cost reduction activity rather than just one set of being in one area.
It's across the board whether it's in streamlining things in the back-office function as well as in the R&amp;D area as well as in sales and marketing as well.
Yes I'll just add Jeff we're not waiting for some of that.
We're working on this and we will get these -- the cost structure in place as soon as practical and we're trying to be very thoughtful about how we do that so that we maintain a focus on the priorities we have which are driving the revenue top-line revenue continue to drive the wave of innovation.
But gaining these efficiencies a lot of what Robyn described is through efficiency gains which has to do with process change and  underlying systems that get aligned with them.
But we aren't waiting.
We're moving and we will get these as soon as practical.
Okay.
Kevin can I just ask you observations on VMware's move into the space with Nicira what are your takeaways on that deal? Yes thanks for the question Jeff.
I think at the Analyst Meeting in early June Pradeep Stefan and Bob I think shared our view of software-defined networks and our focus on this.
We certainly are aligned with the goals and where software-defined network are going.
We I think at the Analyst Meeting outlined how we described that 3 years ago with our launch of the concept of the new network.
We certainly have been very engaged with the industry and the community as it relates to software-defined networks and we will continue to stay very engaged in it.
I think if you look at the comments that Pradeep made we're going to continue to be very thoughtful and balanced in terms of what we're doing on the R&amp;D agenda to make sure that we're delivering the best possible solutions to our customers.
And certainly the work we're doing in our switching and fabric business as it relates to data centers is very applicable and very relevant to Nicira and very applicable and relevant to what VMware is doing.
That said we're going to continue to focus on how we can innovate and deliver the best possible solutions to customers in a world of software-defined networks.
Our next question comes from the line of George Notter with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just expanding on that thought.
I guess I'm wondering when Juniper might be able to deliver a product in the SDN area.
Is there a set of timelines or dates that you guys have in mind? And then also on QFabric I guess I was just hoping to get an update on customer count there and any more comments or tangible data points you have on traction with QFabric could be helpful.
Let me take the first question of when we'll be delivering products in the SDN space.
We already have today a number of products that have many attributes of SDN and I'll first point out that when the industry talks about SDN there's a great deal of similarity to the programmable network which we've been talking about for several years.
SDN is really all about how applications in the infrastructure that support them can drive the network and get the network to do what it wants.
And that's really precisely the same goal we outlined several years ago when we talked about the programmable network.
So the work we've done to date in building the Junos SDK is really industry-leading work that is completely consistent with SDN.
In specific areas of SDN things like OpenFlow we have today some open-source capabilities for people to build on top of our platforms and we're in the process of building production capable OpenFlow technology across a wide variety of Juniper products going into 2013.
So you're seeing -- what I would say is we have products today and we're going to continue to enhance and expand those products and we'll work very closely across the industry including with partners like VMware to ensure that Juniper Networks the platforms and the software that we provide is the best complement to the software that they deliver.
Yes George I'll give you sort of a quick update on QFabric.
I think at the end of our last quarter call we had mentioned I think we had 150 customers running QFabric nodes.
In this quarter in second quarter we surpassed the 200 customer mark running QFabric nodes.
And so we continue to see very good uptake of customers running QFabric nodes and certainly we're seeing a growing number of those customers also now purchase and either go through certification or deployment of the full QFabric systems.
We announced the -- a new interconnect system called the QFX3000-M and this is important in a relevant point because it is a fixed interconnect that provides QFabric for up to 16 nodes.
And so it provides a lower entry point for those customers who have purchased and deployed nodes who now want to try the full QFabric system.
They can deploy the QFX3000-M and it lowers the entry point and provides them flexibility in terms of how they want to deploy that in a fixed interconnect node.
So we've got -- we've surpassed 200 customers in the quarter continued to see good progress on the QFX3500 with the top-of-rack and the nodes and certainly a subset of those customers purchasing continue to deploy the full QFabric system.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Silverstein with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick ones.
First off Kevin or Robyn can you comment on linearity in the quarter as well as closed rates? Secondly with respect to absolute run [ph] optimization curious Kevin have you gone back and looked at -- what's different this time around relative to back in '05 when you purchased Redline and Peribit which if I remember correctly Peribit was the leader at the time it went up.
Redline was a pretty decent private company as well.
What's different about this initiative relative to that last go-around in terms of driving revenue and bottom line? And finally Robyn curious the $150 million number for the OpEx savings for next year it doesn't sound like you have a staff reduction target.
This isn't coming from headcount reduction maybe I misunderstood.
If that's the case how did you come up with $150 million? So Paul let me tackle the first question and the last one.
In terms of linearity nothing unusual to comment on in terms of linearity for the quarter.
You can see with the DSO that we had that it was a relatively linear quarter.
So nothing unusual to comment there.
In terms of the cost reductions let me start by saying where our strategy is around driving revenue growth.
We talked about that in the -- at the Analyst Day.
We're very focused on doing that.
We're also focused on driving operational execution across the board whether it is to drive that revenue growth or reduce our percentage of OpEx to revenue.
And as I outlined at FAM we are targeted at 39% to 42% of revenue as our OpEx over the next 3 years.
So these -- what I've announced today is that we've now -- at FAM I talked about -- we had identified opportunities in that range now we've identified those cost savings and we're in the process of implementing those as we speak.
So we will talk more about those as we start to show the amounts in the P&amp;L.
But we're very focused on delivering both both revenue growth and operating expense efficiencies.
So -- and with regards to the question about the previous acquisitions that Juniper did quite some time ago relative to the work that we'll be doing around particularly the ADC space I can't say too much about what happened a long time ago.
I certainly wasn't here then.
But I will say that today as we sit here we have a great deal of clarity across the 2 customer segments that we're targeting the Service Provider and the Enterprise the 3 businesses we're in switching security and routing and then the 7 domains.
And in particular with the domains it provides us a deep context of understanding of customers' business needs and we see this technology as being critical to fulfill those needs and that's why we've done the -- we've created the relationship that we have and we think it's a good sound financial decision and we think it's a good business opportunity for us going forward.
Yes.
And Paul this is Kevin.
I'll just add to Bob's comments.
I think we are in the switching fabric business in the data center today.
We were not back then.
And so there's clearly in our opinion a technology synergy related to the ADC and the systems.
The fact that we built Layer 2 Layer 3 load balancing into our underlying systems and then complement that now with Layer 7 ADC in systems like MXs SRX and QFabric allows us to bring this technology in form of a line card that now is tightly integrated into the systems.
I think that's the fundamental difference in both footprint technology capabilities and synergies in terms of how we go to market.
Our next question comes from the line of Tal Liani with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions.
First is on the security part.
Bob you spoke about grade investments in security but revenues this quarter were down 6% sequentially.
How do you -- or when do you see the new efforts contributing to revenues? And how do you see the rest of the year playing out in security? How are you -- if you can repeat a little bit I think you highlighted how you're going to innovate -- differentiate versus competition? The second question is clarification about what you said on ADC.
I don't understand why you're going to have 2 different pieces of software one from Radware one from Riverbed and invest in both and try to integrate and try to educate the salespeople on both and how does it work with your desire to lower costs so where is the rationale in keeping both? Okay.
Let me take those one at a time.
Thanks a lot for the question.
The first one with regards to security in terms of the quarter-to-quarter overall decline.
I mean what you're seeing there is somewhat the cyclic nature of Service Provider buying.
As we mentioned we saw growth both quarter-to-quarter and year-over-year in Enterprise which tends to have a more consistent curve attached to it.
In terms of when the time frames for when we see ourselves being able to have more consistent growth we will see as the new products and technologies come out later this year and we see customer adoption.
We do feel that going into 2013 our security business will be seeing very consistent recovery and we've made a wide variety of steps within the security business to really address the challenges we have including putting effectively an entirely new management team in place which is well established now and has -- and is now executing very effectively on the initiatives in front of them.
So I feel good about the steps that have been taken and the progress that we're making.
I feel good about the feedback that we are seeing from customers and where we're heading with that business.
With regards to the question about ADC and the 2 different packages recognize that our relationship with Radware is one where they do development on top of the SDK that we provide and then we work together to deliver our solutions to particular customers.
We do that quite a bit with a wide variety of different partners in the industry and it's actually in our benefit to have an open ecosystem to allow others to build on top of our platforms.
And so it makes sense for us to continue to do that.
In terms of our R&amp;D investment it will be focused on the Riverbed technology.
That's where we'll be putting our own investment.
And in terms of bringing Juniper-based products to market it will be based on that technology.
But as I mentioned that is still some time away still a little while before we'll have the product to market.
Thank you.
That is all the time we have today.
We appreciate your attending today's call and we look forward to speaking with you again next quarter.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Juniper Networks Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Kathleen Nemeth Vice President Investor Relations for Juniper Networks.
Thank you.
Ms.
Nemeth you may begin.
Thank you operator.
Good afternoon and thank you everyone for joining us.
Here on the call today are Kevin Johnson Chief Executive Officer; Robyn Denholm Chief Financial Officer; Stefan Dyckerhoff Executive Vice President Platform Systems Division; and Bob Muglia Executive Vice President Software Solutions Division.
Please remember when listening to today's call that statements concerning Juniper's business outlook economic and market outlook future financial operating results and overall future prospects are forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors including and without limitation to economic conditions generally or within the networking industry; changes in overall technology spending; the network capacity requirements of service providers; the timing of orders and shipments; manufacturing and supply chain constraints; variation in the mix of products sold; customer perception and acceptance of our products; litigation; and other factors listed in our most recent 10-Q filed with the SEC.
All statements made during this call are made only as of today.
Juniper undertakes no obligation to update the information in this conference call in the event facts or circumstances change after the date of this call.
In discussing the financial results Robyn will first present results on a GAAP basis and for purposes of today's discussion will also review non-GAAP results.
For important commentary on why the management team considers non-GAAP information a useful view of the company's financial results please consult our 8-K filed with the SEC today.
For the detailed reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP results please see today's press release.
In general non-GAAP results exclude certain nonrecurring charges amortization of purchased intangibles and other acquisition charges and expenses related to stock-based compensation.
On today's call Robyn will also be providing forward-looking guidance.
As a reminder guidance is provided on a non-GAAP basis other than that with respect to revenue and share count.
All guidance is forward-looking and actual results may vary for the reasons I noted earlier.
GAAP guidance measures are not available on a forward-looking basis due to the high variability and low visibility with respect to certain charges which are excluded from the non-GAAP guidance estimates.
Please note that today's call is scheduled to last for 1 hour.
[Operator Instructions].
With that I'll turn the call over to Kevin.
Thank you Kathleen and welcome everyone.
All of our major financial metrics were in line or ahead of our guided ranges in what continues to be a challenging environment.
We remain focused on those things that are within our control and on developing and delivering great solutions for our customers.
During the third quarter we began to implement some of the initiatives we outlined broadly in last quarter's conference call.
We have streamlined our organization consolidated functional overlap and clarified our priorities.
These actions are designed to best align the company's resources with our strategic priorities.
They will also allow us to sharpen our focus enable agility and drive efficiencies.
We do this with a clear recognition that it is the culture of innovation within our company that enables our customers' business success and creates value for all our stakeholders.
I'll focus my comments today on how we are performing in the market including our progress relative to our new products.
I also want to address some of the questions I know many of you have on the increasing industry focus around network programmability and software-defined networks referred to as SDN.
These are areas where we are very active.
Robyn will walk you through some of the specifics on our financials and we will conclude with Q&amp;A that will include Bob Muglia and Stefan Dyckerhoff.
Our total revenue was up both quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year.
We continue to see healthy performance in our Service Provider business including improving demand by our largest U.S.
customers and good results in the EMEA and APAC regions.
The Enterprise story is mixed with good quarter-over-quarter growth driven by EMEA and APAC but offset somewhat by softness in the Americas.
Our Service Provider revenue increased 4% quarter-over-quarter and 3% year-over-year.
We continue to expect to see a more typical pattern of Service Provider spend within the industry with second half investment levels higher than first.
I'm pleased to note that the upgrade cycle relative to the T4000 core routers is underway and customer engagement around PTX is very strong.
Our PTX product complements our T4000 core routers by collapsing multiple existing core networks into a single MPLS-based transport network and we're seeing good customer feedback for both products.
These innovations provide us competitive differentiation.
With PTX in particular we now have more than 15 customers including recent strategic wins with companies like Optus in Australia and XO Communications here in the U.S.
We believe we are off to a very promising start with PTX.
We had a good quarter in Edge routing and we continue to build on the success of our flagship MX platform.
Earlier this month we announced the industry's most powerful Edge routing platform the MX2020 to enable rapid service creation and service delivery.
It's the only Edge platform capable of delivering broadband mobile and business services on one platform.
In addition we announced a series of software offerings that include our service delivery gateway and the JunosV App Engine that offers a broad set of solutions on the MX.
Switching revenue was up solidly both sequentially and year-over-year.
We continue to take share with the EX with recent customer wins such as Suncor the top 5 North American energy company.
We also continue to win new customers with QFabric.
Recent wins include the University of Frankfurt and in the APAC region BOCI a leading cross-border platform provider for diversified financial services firms in China.
BOCI is one of several customers deploying our QFabric M as its new data center core.
We're making good progress in rebuilding momentum in security.
We grew in low-double digits on a percentage basis quarter-on-quarter.
Demand for high-end SRX within the Service Provider sector was also strong this quarter growing quarter-on-quarter.
But we also saw gains across most of our product families lending to our confidence that our security business is beginning to stabilize.
We're making good progress towards the objective we laid out at the Analyst Meeting to exit 2013 with an annualized run rate of $600 million in new product revenue.
QFabric PTX and T4000 each posted good revenue in the third quarter.
The ACX Universal Access product family began shipping in Q3 and MX2020 will begin shipping in Q4.
MobileNext is now running production traffic with one of our mobility customers and we continue to engage with additional customers on insertion opportunities with our mobile packet core solution.
As we talk about new products and innovation I want to address network programmability and what we're doing around software-defined networks.
We have a few key pillars that define our SDN strategy.
First we continue to believe that a software-driven network platform will ultimately deliver maximum business value for our customers.
This is the vision behind the new network that we laid out 3 years ago and continue to deliver upon.
Junos is a key pillar of this programmability strategy.
Next we believe that the focus of SDN is initially around data center switching.
The data center is where SDN solutions can drive the most business value for customers.
Today we have a data center fabric solution in market with QFabric.
It was architected with some common principles of SDN.
For example our QFabric Director at its essence is a software-driven controller for the QFabric system.
So we have this foundation to build on as we continue to evolve QFabric in our entire data center portfolio.
We know that lots of people are building SDN controllers.
What that means for us is that we need to make sure our network systems work with as many of those controllers as possible.
Open standards have always been a core underpinning of our innovation strategy.
That means our systems need to support SDN protocols including OpenFlow and that's exactly what we're delivering.
We initially demonstrated OpenFlow on the MX in 2011 and this year we extended that to the EX.
We will have a productized version of OpenFlow 1.3 on the MX EX and QFabric next year so that our data center solutions can inter-operate with these many SDN controllers that are being built.
We are actively engaging with several customers on the use cases where we think SDN can deliver the most value.
We have a solution that is architected with SDN principles in QFabric running in many customers' data centers today.
We continue to gain traction with customers as we build out our feature sets.
We are also building SDN APIs including OpenFlow into our systems.
And as we do this throughout our product roadmap we are continuing to evolve the portfolio.
We think we're making pretty good progress.
I'll wrap up my comments by reiterating that we executed well in the third quarter and we took the necessary steps to restructure the company to sharpen our focus on the right priorities enable agility and drive efficiencies across the company.
The actions we are taking to align our resources with our strategic priorities are ahead of schedule and that further strengthens our position as we look to drive revenue growth in 2013.
The macro environment probably isn't going to become any more certain in the near term but we continue to focus on our own execution as we manage through this in line with our operating principles.
We believe our traction is increasing across all 3 of our product areas; routing switching and security and that includes our new products as we move towards the expectation we set at our Analyst Meeting in June.
Before I hand over to Robyn I want to note that we also issued a press release today regarding our Platform Systems division.
Stefan Dyckerhoff's role within Juniper will be changing.
After many successful years as an operating executive Stefan has made the decision to pursue a career as a venture capitalist.
At the same time Stefan will remain actively engaged with Juniper.
Beginning in January 2013 he will transition to a new role as a staff consultant supporting me and the executive team.
In this role he will continue to work with the executive team on strategy and some key customer engagements.
As Stefan shifts into his new role I'm pleased to note that Rami Rahim a 15-year Juniper veteran and key architect of our routing portfolio will succeed Stefan in the leadership role of PSD.
Stefan will work closely with Rami to ensure a smooth transition.
Stefan would you like to add a few comments? Thank you Kevin.
My decision to change career path is driven by a long-standing personal aspiration to work with entrepreneurs as a venture capitalist with the goal of financing market defining companies.
Juniper's product portfolio and our roadmaps are stronger than they have ever been and we are starting to see the results of the work over the last years with early signs of increased momentum on T4000 PTX MX ACX and QFX that will enable future growth for Juniper.
I have worked with Rami for many years and he has played a key role in Juniper's success to date.
I'm confident that he is the right executive to lead the Platform Systems division and I look forward to working with him both during the transition phase and then throughout 2013 as an advisor.
I want to add my personal thanks to the employees at Juniper for all of their support during my many years with the company and look forward to staying connected with Juniper with my new role.
Thank you.
With that I will hand it over to Robyn.
Thank you Stefan and good afternoon everyone.
Juniper delivered third quarter revenue growth on both the quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year basis and we improved our operational performance.
While many customers remain cautious in an uncertain near-term environment we continue to see positive long-term demand fundamentals for high-performance networking.
We are focused on the things we can control.
So let me update you on our progress with our cost structure initiatives.
Last quarter we announced that efforts were underway to bring our cost structure more in line with our long-term model.
The team has initiated multiple actions including a reduction in our workforce of approximately 500 positions supply chain and procurement activities as well as several facility consolidations and other cost saving measures.
In the third quarter these actions have resulted in pretax charges of $83 million associated primarily with workforce reductions inventory facility and other asset write-downs.
We expect to have additional charges in the next several quarters primarily related to facilities and other asset write-downs.
Our employees remain focused on executing our strategy to drive revenue growth and disciplined operational execution and I would like to thank them for their hard work and ongoing commitment during this turbulent time.
Looking at our demand metrics for the quarter the book-to-bill was greater than one with product deferred revenue and product backlog increasing sequentially.
Customer demand this quarter for T4000 and PTX reflected design wins with good adoption across all 3 geographies.
Total revenue was $1 118 000 000 an increase of 4% sequentially and 1% year-over-year.
The sequential increase was due to growth in APAC and EMEA across both the Service Provider and Enterprise sectors.
The year-over-year increase was due to U.S.
Service Provider and International Enterprise growth.
For the third quarter GAAP diluted earnings per share were $0.03.
This reflected the impact of the charges I noted earlier which totaled $0.16 per share.
Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share were $0.22 up $0.03 sequentially and down $0.06 year-over-year.
The sequential increase reflected our revenue growth and improved operational performance.
Now let me provide some color on revenue by region business segment and market.
Americas revenue was down 5% sequentially and up 1% year-over-year.
The sequential decrease was due primarily to U.S.
Enterprise.
The year-over-year increase reflected Service Provider growth particularly in large U.S.
carriers.
EMEA revenue was up 7% sequentially and 3% year-over-year.
This increase over last quarter reflected improved Enterprise revenue and some new wins in Service Provider.
While we did see revenue improvement this quarter we still see a soft demand environment in the region.
APAC revenue was up 26% sequentially and down 1% year-over-year with sequential increases in both Service Provider and Enterprise.
We saw good growth across the region particularly in China.
Now let me review our revenue by segment.
Platform Systems division revenue was $893 million up 2% sequentially and 1% year-over-year.
PSD router product revenue was $488 million which was flat sequentially and down 7% year-over-year.
Our new products continue to gain traction in the marketplace.
We have seen good engagement in all 3 geographies on both T4000 and the PTX core products.
Year-over-year we saw good growth from the MX products and as anticipated the older products of M&amp;E were the main reason for the year-over-year decline in routing.
Total router product revenue including both PSD and SSD increased 2% sequentially to $514 million.
Total switching product revenue increased 4% sequentially and 19% year-over-year to $146 million.
We continue to take share with our portfolio of EX and QFabric switching products.
SSD revenue in the quarter was $225 million up 11% sequentially and flat year-over-year.
Total security product revenue was $178 million up 12% sequentially and down 7% year-over-year.
The sequential increase reflected gains across most product families.
High end SRX product revenue increased 18% sequentially and was down slightly year-over-year reflecting Service Provider deployment timing.
And we expect continued revenue fluctuations for this product.
Branch SRX which is reported as part of PSD continues to make good progress with Enterprise customers and was up 7% sequentially and 2% year-over-year.
Looking more closely at the markets we address Service Provider revenue was $705 million up 4% sequentially and 3% year-over-year.
The sequential growth was due to improved performance with large Service Providers globally and content service providers.
Enterprise revenue was $413 million up 5% sequentially and down 2% year-over-year.
The increase was driven by new financial services and public sector account wins in EMEA and APAC.
The year-over-year decline was due to lower revenue in the U.S.
Federal and Financial Services sector compared to strong third quarter of last year.
Moving onto gross margins and operating expenses.
Non-GAAP gross margins for the third quarter increased to 65.6% compared to 63.4% last quarter.
While the sequential increase reflected our continued supply chain efficiency improvements approximately 100 basis points of the increase was due to items which we do not expect to recur.
Non-GAAP product gross margins were 66.8% versus 64.7% in the quarter.
Non-GAAP services gross margins were 62.2% up 2.8 points from the prior quarter reflecting productivity improvement.
Non-GAAP operating expenses increased sequentially to $544 million due to the timing of additional prototype costs annual employee merit awards and higher variable expenses.
Looking at headcount we ended the quarter with 9 584 employees and this does not reflect the impact of our workforce reduction which I discussed earlier.
Non-GAAP operating margin for the quarter was 16.9%.
This sequential increase of 1.9 points was driven by higher revenue and gross margins with operating expenses flat as a percentage of revenue.
The GAAP tax rate was 56.7% for the quarter.
This is up sequentially due primarily to the effect of the restructuring and other associated charges.
The non-GAAP tax rate was 34.4%.
This is higher than the prior quarter primarily due to the geographic mix of income.
And as a reminder the tax rates reflect no renewal of the R&amp;D tax credit.
Looking at the balance sheet we ended the quarter with $3 billion of net cash and investments.
Cash flow from operations was $173 million.
DSO was a healthy 32 days in the quarter.
Compared to the prior quarter capital expenditures were down slightly and depreciation was up slightly.
We continue to move ahead with our build out of our Sunnyvale Campus.
This enables our facility consolidation.
We repurchased 13.9 million shares for $250 million at an average price of $18.
We have $818 million remaining on our current authorization and we will calibrate our buybacks in future quarters with market conditions at the time.
Based on current trends we clearly recognize the opportunity to continue to do more.
Now I will review our outlook for the fourth quarter.
As a reminder these metrics are provided on a non-GAAP basis except for revenue and share count.
At this point there is no evidence of any indication of a significant improvement in the spending environment over the next few quarters.
We expect customers to remain cautious with their investment decisions.
We are pleased with the progress towards the new product revenue goal that we discussed at FAM of an annualized $600 million run rate for our new products exiting Q4 of 2013.
As a company we remain focused on driving revenue growth and disciplined operational execution.
As an update on the cost reduction activities we are on track to our cost savings goal.
Since the end of the quarter we have taken steps to reduce our workforce by approximately 500 positions.
This essentially completes our planned workforce reduction.
We have also made good progress on our supply chain and procurement activities and we anticipate that the majority of the $150 million savings will be in operating expenses and there will be some savings that will be realized in both product and services cost of goods sold.
I'm pleased with the focus on efficiency within the company and I'm confident that we will continue to make good progress towards our cost reduction objectives.
For the fourth quarter we expect revenues to range from $1 100 000 000 to $1 130 000 000.
Gross margins are expected to be in the range of 63.5% to 64.5%.
Operating expenses are expected to be roughly flat with the third quarter.
The benefit of our cost reduction activities will largely offset the typical sequential increase in OpEx in the fourth quarter.
We expect operating margin to range from 14% to 16%.
This is expected to result in a non-GAAP diluted EPS of between $0.19 and $0.22 per share assuming a flat share count a tax rate of 32% and assumes no renewal of the R&amp;D tax credit.
In summary we continue to drive improvements in our capital structure.
We are driving top line revenue growth with our innovative products and we are aligning our cost structure to sharpen our focus enable agility and drive efficiencies.
Now I will hand it over to the operator for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Rod Hall with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask you a little bit about the revenues.
The revenue report here in the quarter is pretty good routing revenue is stable yet you seem to be guiding for flattish revenues again next quarter and I guess that implies pretty flat routing revenue.
But I think the commentary when you guys were talking about routing suggests that things are getting a little bit better you're starting to see the T4000 ramp.
I just wanted to explore that a little bit because clearly in Q4 we normally would expect to see some seasonality even though the spending environment's weak.
We ought to see some sort of pick up and just trying to understand whether you guys are discounting your sales funnel more aggressively because you think the environment has gotten more uncertain? Or are you just not seeing the sales funnel develop in the first place? Can you give us any more color on why you're giving us the kind of revenue guidance.
Yes thanks Rod.
In terms of the revenue guidance for the fourth quarter our customers continue to be cautious in terms of their spending but they're continuing.
And clearly what we take into account when we're looking at our guidance for any period of time is we look at not just the revenue for the quarter but also our deferred revenue and our bookings in the quarter as well as discussions with our customers and we believe that over this next couple of quarters they will continue to be cautious in their spending pattern.
And Kevin would you like to comment as well? Yes thanks Rod.
I'll just add to Robyn's comments.
In the U.S.
I think we continue to see good demand from our service providers and especially with the Tier 1 service providers were working with.
Clearly in the U.S.
I think this will be a year that we see a more typical first half versus second half capital expenditure plan and we have to net that with the fact that we did have some large PTX projects that kicked off in the first half and how that balances.
But in the U.S.
we feel good.
In Europe I think there still some softness in Europe and we're very cautious about the situation in Europe.
In Asia Pacific I would characterize this as stable.
I think we had a good performance this quarter in China and we'll stay focused on Asia.
But we net that all together and I think that came together in the guidance that we have for the quarter.
Our next question comes from line of Tal Liani with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I'm trying to understand the drivers for growth this quarter.
Pretty good growth but it's kind of coming in the wrong places in the sense that you had going into this quarter you had 3 new products whether it's a PTX the T and you also have a little bit older but also newer Edge portfolio.
And that's the flat part.
And the growth part is in security where you don't have actually new products.
Same thing when it comes to geography.
Europe everyone else is reporting on weakness in Europe and you're showing very strong growth or relatively speaking nice growth in Europe.
So I'm trying to understand whether the growth we have seen this past quarter is related to spending or something you have done on your part getting to customers specifically what have you done in Europe et cetera just to understand the trends.
Thanks Tal I'll start and then I'll ask Kevin to come in as well.
So if you look at -- the demand in the quarter is obviously a reflection of not just the revenue in the quarter but also the bookings and the deferred revenue in the quarter.
And so to me as we commented in the prepared remarks we're seeing good demand for our core products both in terms of PTX and as Kevin mentioned we had started to see the beginning of the upgrade cycle for the T4000 as well which we are very pleased with.
In terms of MX you saw good sequential growth in that and we're continuing to drive feature sets not just on the MX itself but also in terms of the software that runs on top of the MX as well and again Kevin mentioned that in terms of new product announcements that we've made as well.
In security it is -- on the Service Provider side we continue to do well in terms of the demand environment out there.
And that is what drove the sequential revenue growth as we commented in the prepared remarks.
Enterprise we do believe we've stabilized.
In terms of the demand environment there's still work to be done there but that team is on top of that.
So Kevin would you like to...
Yes I'll just add to Robyn's comments Tal.
I think if we look at MX MX showed sequential and year-on-year growth.
EX and QFabric showed sequential year-over-year growth.
SRX showed sequential growth and flat year-on-year and I think when we look at those combined with what we see happening with PTX and T it gives us a positive sense on how product value proposition of the product.
When you look by sector there's some variances there.
Certainty the U.S.
we're seeing stronger demand from service providers.
When we look at the project the project run rate and the set of projects that we're doing and that doesn't always translate to a specific revenue in that quarter but the outlook on projects and the work that we're doing in the U.S.
I would say is positive.
In Europe we had a reasonable quarter on the Service Provider side but we're very -- still a lot of softness and we're very cautious on the outlook in Europe.
In Asia Pacific we had a good performance in China but were -- Asia Pacific I would characterize this as very stable.
On the Enterprise side we saw good Enterprise performance in APAC and EMEA and some softness in the U.S.
And the softness in the U.S.
is primarily driven by Federal and Financial Services.
So you net that together I think overall when we look at product revenue and as Robyn pointed out backlog and deferred product revenue we feel like we're making reasonable progress.
Research Division</strong> And maybe just one follow-up.
If that's the case why are you guiding so low? The quarter is great and you're guiding much I mean lower than our expectations into a seasonally strong quarter.
Why is there such conservatism? So Tal as I mentioned before our customers continue to be cautious in terms of the near-term spending environment that they're actually participating in.
We continue to have a good dialogue with customers around the world in terms of the product sets that we have.
When we set our guidance we take into account not only the revenue in the quarter but also the bookings that we've received in the quarter and the deferred revenue.
And now our point of view on the fourth quarter is that customers are going to continue to be cautious.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Marshall with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> This is Stephen Patel for Brian Marshall.
What do you see as the catalyst that sort of flipped the switch with respect to service providers migrating en masse to your new product platforms which possess significantly better cost and performance metrics? It seems like carriers in general will have to make the investment in light of these quarters and trying to identify the drivers of the migration.
Appreciate your thoughts.
Thanks for the question Stephen.
I'll take that one Robyn.
I think first of all with the PTX and the T4000 as those products were released certainly customers go through the process of certification and testing them in their labs before they begin deployment.
And I think we commented we now have 15 customers of PTX who are in various stages of that process.
On the T4000 there's a process they go through where they -- first they upgrade the T Series chassis to be able to handle T4000 line cards.
And what we've seen thus far is some good progress on the chassis upgrades and yet I think there's still a wave of line card upgrades to come and that's a function of as customers look at their investment priorities and they look at the network -- how hot their network is running and where they need to deploy their capital.
Certainty we think we're positioned for that.
And then the MX continues to be a very solid product across the dimensions the wireless the wireline and the business services that our customers deliver.
So I don't think there's any one specific thing but it's a wide range of things.
And maybe Stefan I'll ask if there's any additional color you want to add for Stephen.
Sure.
I think what we're seeing here is kind of the continuation execution of a strategy that we had outlined.
So when our customers look at making buying decisions they look at really fundamentally 2 things: Total cost of ownership and then the ability to generate revenue from new services from the network on the service provider side.
So from a total cost of ownership point of view certainly with the PTX that's a great way to simplify the network drive down both CapEx in terms of cost per bit and power usage; and then OpEx as you simplify.
Very similar on the T4000 where we give you a very simple way to upgrade the existing infrastructure to get to a lower cost per bit.
At the Edge network it's a combination of 2 things.
It really is total cost of ownership.
So certainly the MX enhancements that we outlined that are shipping next quarter with the MX2000 series those drive down the total cost of ownership and also give the customer great investment protection story.
But then on top of that this is where service providers generate revenue.
So the ability of Junos to evolve support the JunosV App engine so you can have multiple services at the edge of the network reduces the time it takes for service provider to generate revenue.
So those 2 things really drive adoption and as always the service providers have a long-term view of these architectural transitions.
Our next question comes from line of Ehud Gelblum with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I actually have a litany of questions so I'll try and put them all together.
First of all Robyn can you give us a sense on the $150 million cost savings and the $600 million in new product revenue both of which you plan to get to by the end of next year.
Can you quantify those so we can actually track them each quarter? Are we on having taken care of $30 million of annualized cost savings and $165 million of the $600 million new product revenue any sense you can give on that would be great.
And then China being strong and Service Provider was interesting.
Was that kind of a onetime deal or is that continuing thing? Is that a large deal that you won? Or is that may be a multi-quarter deal or is that something that you think is more continuous over time? And then finally if you can give us any sense of about how large MX was you said it was nice it was good just give us a sense of that.
Thanks Ehud.
In terms of the revenue progress against the $150 million for the Q4 2013 exit point on $600 million annualized run rate as I mentioned on the call we're on track.
We'll give you periodic updates in terms of where we are against that goal.
And as we've mentioned before that is against all of the 5 new product areas that we talked about at FAM.
In terms of the cost reduction activity I am pleased where we are as well in terms of the cost reduction activity.
We are on track to achieve the $150 million in terms of total cost reductions both in terms of OpEx and COGS for next year.
And we'll give you an update as to where we are against that as we move forward through the year.
Research Division</strong> Because I didn't get an answer could I get -- could you give us a sense about the 100 bps of gross margin boost and where that came from? All right.
So in terms of the -- in the prepared remarks I talked about 100 basis points of additional cost reduction in the quarter.
So if I step back in terms of gross margins we're pleased with performance in gross margins this quarter.
We have seen some improvement in the quarter-over-quarter cost reduction and supply chain efficiencies that we're putting in place.
What I also mentioned in the prepared remarks was we did see the onetime benefit of about 100 basis points that we don't expect to recur.
And then there are credits and other things like that that we saw in the quarter that as I said I don't expect to recur.
This is Stefan let me just briefly comment on the China Service Provider question that you had.
I mean traditionally we've been strong in China particularly in core routing with the major carriers.
And this is really what we saw this quarter.
They're running very large networks experiencing very large growth and certainly the T Series benefited from that.
And from that strength we're obviously trying to break into other areas of the network but that's really what drove the business in the near-term.
Research Division</strong> And it's sustainable going forward or it's not just a onetime? As always the SP business will be lumpy right? But we feel good about our position in the architecture and as they see growth and they'll go through the investment cycles and we'll be able to benefit from that.
Research Division</strong> If I can squeeze in one last one the gross margin guidance for Q4 is down yet it seems that a lot of your high-growth -- high-margin businesses especially T4000 are increasing.
I mean even taking into account the 100 bps of onetime boost.
Just wondering why the gross margin guidance is down for next quarter? Yes as I mentioned previously Ehud the 100 basis points is onetime.
If you take that out of the gross margin performance in the third quarter it's pretty in line with that.
And yes we did see good performance in terms of mix in the third quarter as well.
And so we expect that to continue in the fourth quarter.
Our next question comes from the line of Simona Jankowski with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just had a couple of questions on a couple of the different product cycles.
First starting with the T4000 can you just give us a sense of how we can think about the length of that replacement cycle perhaps by looking back at the T1600 over how many quarters did you see a bulge in sales before you saw that flatten out or decline? And then secondly as it pertains to the PTX you mentioned that you have now over 15 customers deploying the PTX.
Out of those how many do you think you could have otherwise addressed with a T4000.
So this was maybe replacing your own opportunity versus how many do you think were incremental I mean might have been competing against and displacing an optical alternative? And just the third product I wanted to touch on was the SRX where you talked about the 18% sequential increase for the Service Provider segment can you just expand on what drove that and again how broad-based it is and how sustainable it is? Hi Simona this is Stefan.
So let me comment on the first 2.
On the T4000 we're happy with the uptake.
I would say in terms of a number of upgrades it's very consistent to the kind of uptake that we see with the T1600.
As customers are more careful about their spend which we do see they might upgrade the chassis first and plug in one of the new denser line cards and then hold off on upgrading the rest.
So we think that this cycle might take a little bit longer and be a little bit more sort of flatter in terms of the uptake just because of the spending environment.
But overall in terms of number of T4000s out there number of customers that's qualified it very much in line with the T1600 experience.
And so this will evolve over multiple years right? And that's what we saw with the T1600 as well.
And as all always our customers will sort of apply the quarter-to-quarter spending discipline to how they upgrade the infrastructure.
On the PTX we've really seen it play out to where this is complementary to the T4000 upgrade.
There are a number of customers that have both T4000 and PTX and working on both.
The PTX helps us redefine the architecture and helps us take share in the core [ph] I think as we see that play out.
There is an opportunity to merge networks into one like we saw from Verizon last quarter.
So these are the kinds of opportunities that will drive our growth going forward and that opens up growth for us in those networks.
Hi Simona this is Bob Muglia.
In terms of the SRX and the growth we saw quarter-to-quarter on that in Service Provider what we're seeing is a wave of deployments around emerging wireless networks predominantly LTE which have higher bandwidth requirements which the SRX is particularly well-suited for.
So we see that as an area where we have a very good market position.
It is the Service Provider market.
So like everything with service providers it is lumpy.
And so that means the performance could vary quarter-to-quarter but we do see this as a long-term trend in which we remain very well-positioned.
You didn't ask specifically about the Enterprise but I'll comment a little bit more on that while I'm at it.
As we've described before we are in a position of really driving forward and reengaging in the Enterprise space.
We've had some areas there where we've not been as strong as we'd like to be particularly around things like manageability and we have a very strong program to bring out a new product set to dramatically improve our manageability and security design product.
We've had a great deal of engagement with customers of all types with this with very positive feedback from all of them.
We have a very significant release of that coming out later this quarter as well as incremental updates of that in the first half of next year where we expect to be very well-positioned.
The other thing I'll say overall is about our engagement with Enterprise is is that we are telling and talking to them about an end-to-end integrated security strategy which they find very very important and that is enabling us to have a different level of engagement with these Enterprise customers.
And that does not translate into revenue immediately but it does provide a good long-term potential.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeff Kvaal with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> This is a bigger picture question perhaps.
I think we've seen 3 -- 4 or 5 quarters in a row of either flat or down year-over-year growth.
Kevin you spoke in your intro script about returning to revenue growth next year.
What are you seeing that gives you confidence in that? The carriers seem to have managed okay the last 6 quarters or so why are you confident there's going to be revenue growth next year and should we be thinking about low single-digit revenue growth or upper-single digit? Any comments around that will be very helpful.
Yes thanks for the question Jeff.
The answer from my perspective at a high level is 2 things: Number one I think it's clear that on the Service Provider side networks are running hotter especially when you look at some of the capital expenditures in Europe as an example and even through the first half of this calendar year the addressable market for routing had declined by about 3 percentage points.
Yet network traffic I believe continues to increase in many cases and putting pressure on or increasing the utilization of these networks.
So number one factor is networks running hotter which means at some point investment cycles need to kick in.
And number two it's our product cycle.
I think I look at routing specifically for service providers when you look at from the core what we've done with PTX and T4000 to the Edge and aggregation to what we've done with MX from even with this new release of the MX2000 family and the software assets on top of the MX.
And then all the way to the access layer with the ACX.
I think we have got a very rich portfolio of technology and solutions that is differentiated from competition and that combined with the fact that networks are running hotter I think positions us well for the future.
And your second part of your question is can you quantify that and I'm hesitant to do that because much of that is going to depend on factors as we go into 2013 that are going to have to do with the macro and investment cycles.
So I think consistent with the comments Robyn made at the Analyst Meeting.
Look it's our intent to really focus on how we can run this company in a way that we're able to grow faster than the addressable markets.
And I think with the things we've done from an innovation standpoint from a product standpoint when it comes to routing I think we're very well-positioned certainly with switching and what we've done in QFabric I think we've continued to take share and we're well-positioned going forward and Bob's comments on security are consistent with the view that we've got a strong value proposition in Service Provider and we've been taking actions over this last year to strengthen our hand in Enterprise.
I feel like those are all the right set of things for us to be doing.
Our next question comes from the line of Ittai Kidron with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions for me.
First of all in the weakness in Enterprise in the U.S.
you've mentioned financials in public but can you be a little bit more specific on how execution was in the region just to make sure that there isn't anything else out there.
Many other companies have actually posted good public numbers this quarter.
I'm just trying to understand why you don't.
And second regarding your Switching business.
Kevin I believe that you mentioned that both EX and QFabric were up quarter-over-quarter.
So 2 questions related to that if that is correct if I got that right does that mean about your wireless business was actually down quarter-over-quarter? And second can you give us a little more color on the customer count on QFabric and how many of them are full architecture versus just top-of-rack? Yes Ittai so let me start off with the public sector and financial services.
So as we commented earlier we did see strength internationally sequentially with our public sector and financial services business.
In the U.S.
we did have a strong quarter last quarter in terms of public sector that this quarter was okay from a public sector perspective but obviously it was down quarter-over-quarter.
So it's a timing perspective.
Our public sector team is absolutely fabulous and they're continuing to drive market share wins in the public sector in the areas that we focus on particularly in the U.S.
area.
So I'm confident with what they're doing there.
In terms of financial services again we had a stronger quarter last quarter.
We did see that decline quarter-over-quarter in the U.S.
As I mentioned in the prepared remarks the international business in both of those areas did better this quarter.
The only other thing I'd add to Robyn's comments is our business in public sector is really Federal Federal Government.
We're not in state and local governments as much as many others are.
So certainly Robyn's comments are accurate.
But when you say public sector really be thoughtful of Federal.
And the second part of your question then was on our switching business which the comment was with our switching business we look at EX and QFabric being up your question was wireless down.
The wireless was not down.
Wireless was flattish though.
It was flat to up but not as significant as the increase that we're seeing in the switching and QFabric.
And I think that's reflective.
We've got a very strong focus on data center scenarios and a great solution for the campus and branch as well.
But Stefan you want to add to that one? Yes I think on the wireless side this is also a function of where we are on the product portfolio.
We recently introduced a sort of new access point a sort of new management capabilities that's coming out later this year and early next year.
And that really will be the key for us to drive forward.
But as Kevin mentioned it was flat to slightly up quarter-over-quarter.
So we continue to invest in that business.
And then the final question you had was related to QFabric.
I'll just comment this was a quarter with QFabric where we saw much more activity on the interconnect and the directors.
The full QFabric systems that were connecting together many of the nodes whereas in prior quarters we're seeing more of the activity on the nodes or the top-of-rack side.
So I think I attribute much of that to the fact that the release of the QFabric M interconnect has enabled an entry point for customers now that are now doing more of those deployments.
I don't have specific numbers I apologize on that but the way I would characterize an answer to your question was this quarter was much more about the full QFabric systems where in prior quarters I think there was a lot of groundwork laid for QFabric nodes that are now being connected together into the full data center solution.
Our next question comes from the line Mark Sue with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Kevin or Stefan maybe just a thought on the need for the operators to upgrade their networks and where major carriers are with their utilization rates and I ask because if I look at the performance improvements in your new products your products get better every year and may now be exceeding network traffic growth.
So can your product cycles actually extend the carrier investment cycles? We use the big spending flags every 4 years and we're wondering now if it goes to 5 or 6 years.
Good question Mark.
I'll first comment then I'll hand over to Stefan.
Look the engineering work that we do and the innovation we drive is intended to continue to reduce the cost per bit of traffic carried through new innovation and technology in the silicon in the systems in the way that comes together with the software.
So that's been true for the last 10 or 20 years as we focused on continuing to innovate and drive down the cost per bit of traffic carried.
The second part of your question then is does that create value proposition for customers? I believe the answer is yes.
And then certainly the third part is if traffic -- if networks are -- if traffic isn't growing as rapidly and networks aren't running as hot does that have implications in terms of the timing of investments? And certainly every network is different but it would have difference in timing.
Customers are going to look to make -- to put their capital where it can make the most impact for them in their business and sometimes that's in the core when the core gets running too hot.
Sometimes that's in the edge.
And as Stefan commented earlier on the edge of the network it's not just about cost per bit carried but it's new services and the way they're monetizing those new services with their customers.
So there's a variety of ways that we have to add value to our customers.
So Stefan you want to add to that? Sure.
I think from an overall demand picture we still see -- when we talk to customers traffic increasing at a very good clip.
And fundamentally the growth of traffic I mean is still outstripping what Moore's Law gives you right? So you how to really invest in the silicon in the systems to keep up with that growth of traffic.
And our customers always push us to build bigger and bigger systems to address this problem.
In terms of how they run their networks as Kevin mentioned they upgrade their networks for multiple reasons in terms of how hot they run it where they put capabilities in the network and they'll make those different trade-offs.
But their fundamentally going to choose to upgrade if they can either reduce the total cost of ownership or generate new services in addition to the underlying demand curve that drives their business.
And if I could add one more thing to that this is Bob Muglia.
As we move forward the opportunity for software is very very significant in these networks and software is the component which will add significant value for our customers.
And we've made some very significant announcements this last quarter in terms of the Universal Edge and the MX in terms of our software portfolio.
And that really is the beginning of what we'll be able to do in the months and years ahead to provide more value to our customers more than just in terms of the performance that we can deliver but in terms of their ability to monetize their networks.
Operator we have time for 1 for question.
Our last question comes from line of Brent Bracelin with Pacific Crest Securities.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to go once more into kind of the growth drivers of the business.
Obviously 2 quarters in a row here we saw 4% consequential rebound in the product revenue.
And I think the really bigger question we're trying to ask here is is this the beginning of a broader recovery where you're starting to see some of these operators that have run these networks hot for a while now now look to upgrade or after kind of 2 years of revenue being in this $1 billion to $1.19 billion range for years now for Juniper is this the new normal? And I was wondering if could give us sort of any sense of urgency that you've seen with customers around adding network capacity as you think about kind of the planning process that you're in right now I imagine for next year.
What's your general sense of your ability to capitalize on some of these network expansion plans if there are any for these carriers over the next year or 2? And could you comment on your ability to kind of gain share.
We really haven't seen an accelerated share gain out of Juniper over the last 2 years and just trying to rationalize the opportunity around is this a beginning of a bigger broader recovery or is this the new normal we should expect for the next 2 years? Yes let me comment briefly Brent and then I'll let Stefan add to it based on his observations.
You used the word sense of urgency do we see some certain of urgency on the spending pattern in service providers? I wouldn't characterize it as a sense of urgency.
What I would characterize we are seeing is a very disciplined planning approach that is creating new projects and new need to do upgrades on networks.
It's not a sense of urgency to react to adding capacity but there's a lot of thoughtfulness and discipline in the planning and that planning results in very clear projects with very clear business objectives that customers are trying to achieve.
And I feel like if I look over the last 6 months I think we've secured a number of wins and commitments from these customers where we've competed for these projects and we've been awarded these projects.
Some of these projects have kicked off some are going to kick off in 2013.
But I think that is an indicator that there is clearly value in the investments that they're looking to make those investments are aligned with key business outcomes they're looking to drive.
And the technology footprint that we have and innovation we've delivered is aligning with their business need.
I think that combined with the product cycle that we're in having strength with the T4000 PTX and the core routing footprint strength in the Edge with what we've done with MX and expanding that systems platform along with the new software services that Bob highlighted and then moving us even forward into the access layer I think that makes us a more competitive more relevant player that has a fuller portfolio to solve these problems.
And so those 2 things I think are very positive indicators.
Stefan you want to add to that? Yes maybe just to add a little bit from my many conversations with service providers I think the one sense of urgency they feel is that they can't just build the network the same old way.
So they are looking to reduce the total cost of ownership and their speed and cost to service by considering the right architectural transitions that they should make in the network.
And that then coupled with what products can fulfill that and certainly just like we saw on the MX a couple of years ago we feel very good about those product cycles that are coming to market now.
And that's always going to be a key driver for our business.
Okay.
We would like to thank everyone for joining us today.
We do appreciate your time and we look forward  to speaking with you again next quarter.
Thank you.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Juniper Networks Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions]  As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Kathleen Nemeth Vice President Investor Relations for Juniper Networks.
Thank you Ms.
Nemeth you may begin.
Thank you operator.
Good afternoon and thank you everyone for joining us today.
Here on the call are Kevin Johnson Chief Executive Officer; Robyn Denholm Chief Financial Officer; Bob Muglia Executive Vice President Software Solutions Division; and Rami Rahim Executive Vice President Platform Systems division.
Before we continue I would like to highlight some planned changes to our earnings release format that will be implemented next quarter.
Starting with our first quarter 2013 earnings we will no longer be including certain financial tables within our earnings press release but we will continue to make them available for download in Excel format on the Investor Relations section of Juniper's website.
The financial tables are noted in the appendix of today's fourth quarter and full year 2012 earnings press release and include segment operating results share-based compensation by category share-based compensation related to tax by category and reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP results related to the tables I just referenced.
We believe this change will simplify and streamline the earnings press release format while continuing to make valuable information available to our shareholders.
Please remember when listening to today's call that statements concerning Juniper's business outlook economic and market outlook strategy future financial operating results and overall future prospects are forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors including economic conditions generally or within the networking industry; changes in overall technology spending and spending by communication service providers and major customers; the network capacity requirements of service providers; the timing of orders and shipments; manufacturing and supply chain constraints; variation in the mix of products sold customer perception and acceptance of our products; rapid technological and market change; litigation and other factors listed in our most recent 10-Q filed with the SEC.
All statements made during this call are made only as of today.
Juniper undertakes no obligation to update the information in this conference call in the event facts or circumstances change after the date of this call.
In discussing the financial results Robyn will first present results on a GAAP basis and for purposes of today's discussion will also review non-GAAP results.
For important commentary on why the management team considers non-GAAP information a useful view of the company's financial results please consult our 8-K filed with the SEC today.
For the detailed reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP please see the Investor Relations section of our website.
In general non-GAAP results exclude certain non-recurring charges amortization of purchased intangibles and other acquisition charges and expenses related to stock-based compensation.
On today's call Robyn will also be providing forward-looking guidance.
As a reminder guidance is provided on a non-GAAP basis other than that with respect to revenue and share count.
All guidance is forward-looking and actual results may vary for the reasons I noted earlier.
GAAP guidance measures are not available on a forward-looking basis due to the high variability and low visibility with respect to certain charges which are excluded from the non-GAAP guidance estimate.
Please note that today's call is scheduled to last for 1 hour and please limit your questions to 1 per firm.
With that I'll turn the call over to Kevin.
Thanks Kathleen and welcome everyone.
Juniper finished the year on a good note exceeding our Q4 guidance.
Robyn will review the financial results shortly.
Certainly 2012 was a challenging year given the global macroenvironment and we have focused on controlling the things that are within our control and improving execution.
I think we've made solid progress in a number of key areas.
First we strengthened our product portfolio and introduced breakthrough technologies over the past year.
We are gaining traction in the marketplace as we execute against a multiyear strategy that will help us embrace the ongoing transition in the networking industry towards flatter more scalable network architectures.
This is evident in the new products we have brought to market in routing switching and security.
In addition we've also made important improvements to many of our existing products with new features enhanced performance capabilities and quality improvements.
This includes our security portfolio where we have made and continue to make key advancements to strengthen our offerings and narrow competitive gaps.
In addition we have clearly stated a path for Juniper to leverage our assets and embrace the concept of software-defined networks.
Bob Muglia will share some more details on security and SDN in a few moments.
The second area of progress in 2012 was excellence in execution focusing on our innovation strategy and on the things we can control.
Last fall we announced a set of restructuring efforts designed to sharpen our focus drive efficiencies and enable agility throughout the organization.
We're also well along the path where we've improved our sales pipeline and forecasting execution R&amp;D execution to deliver innovation and product quality and customer service and support execution.
We also strengthened our capabilities and business processes and key internal management systems which will further improve our ability to execute.
There's always more to do to drive continuous improvement and this will continue to be a focus in 2013.
From my perspective Juniper is already executing at a higher level and this adds to my confidence as we enter the new year.
Third area of focus is around capital allocation.
Juniper consistently delivers strong operating cash flows and we're being very thoughtful about how we allocate these dollars across investment priorities that drive growth and opportunities to enhance shareholder returns.
We will continue to be thoughtful in our capital allocation throughout 2013.
The progress in each of these areas lays the foundation for improving performance in 2013.
But before I get into our business outlook I want to touch on the announcement we made last week around software-defined networking at our annual Global Partners Conference.
I want to highlight a couple of points.
There's been a lot of talk and in many cases a lot of hype around SDN.
We were relatively quiet on the topic in 2012 but in the background we were hard at work on our strategy and plans.
We recognize this is an inflection point in the industry and we share the view that SDN will play a transformational role in networking.
Juniper has played a critical role in prior transformational moments in networking and we see this as the next big transition.
A couple of things are clear today.
One it's early.
That's evident in the variety of approaches beginning to emerge in the industry.
Two the vision and strategy we laid out last week defines a comprehensive path that we believe leverages our heritage is the innovation leader in high-performance networking and puts us in a good position to execute and create value both for our customers and our shareholders.
Bob will comment on this further in a minute.
I'd like to focus the remainder of my remarks on how Juniper is positioning itself for 2013.
The macro and spending environments remain mixed with the beginning signs of increased project activity in service providers offset somewhat by weakness in U.S.
federal and other parts of the enterprise.
Macroenvironment in Europe remains challenging.
That said we are playing offense and we're focused on making solid progress against the targets in our long-term financial model.
We enter the year in a good position.
As I've discussed we're stronger operationally.
We're more focused and more agile.
The company is well prepared for growth.
In routing innovative new products like PTX and ACX are gaining traction.
This is evident in the fourth quarter.
The flagship MX family of routers continues to gain widespread adoption and we plan to take share in routing.
In switching we are continuing to take share in the market overall and we continue to add customers for our data center switching offerings.
We introduced the smaller version of the QFabric Interconnect the QFX3000-M in Q3.
And this contributed to the addition of over 130 net new customers in Q4 and an acceleration in full fabric deployments.
We continue to enhance the features and capabilities of our data center solutions.
And finally in security we continue to have good traction with service providers while we have reenergized enterprise security strategy and we are beginning to show results.
This will be a big area of focus in 2013 and Bob will share more on this topic with you.
Of course for Juniper to generate good growth we also need to see a healthy spending environment.
We will continue to watch the macroenvironment carefully and we think the steps we've taken to improve our execution will enable us to manage the business prudently and with agility.
We continue to believe that the underlying trends driving network investment around the cloud and mobility are intact and remain strong.
U.S.
Tier 1 service provider spending in 2012 was healthy and we think signs in our business point to some improved momentum in routing in 2013 from U.S.
and European service providers.
Enterprise continues to be challenging and difficult to predict particularly in key sectors like federal where the U.S.
budget situation has clouded visibility and continues to weigh on the sector.
But bigger picture we are steadily improving our position in the data center and we are making important strides toward restoring growth in security.
We believe the long-term demand for high-performance networking continues to be positive as mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets proliferate and service providers increasingly rely on high-performance networks to support the demand for data.
Wrapping up we generated solid financial results in 2012 in a challenging macroenvironment.
We focused on those things that we could control and in the process we strengthened our product offerings improved our execution and allocated our capital thoughtfully.
Looking ahead Juniper is entering 2013 in a strong position with good opportunities to take share in routing and switching and we expect to continue to make progress in security.
We will play offense as we pursue our 3-year financial targets and we will do this by staying true to our strategy delivering great products focusing on operational excellence and managing our costs carefully.
Thanks again for joining us today and now I'll hand it over to Bob to share more details on software-defined networks and our activities in security.
Bob? Thank you Kevin and it's great to be joining the call with all of you today.
Kevin has asked me to update you on a couple of items.
The first of those is our strategy and vision for software-defined networking.
We unveiled this as a part of our Global Partners Conference last week to an enthusiastic response.
And today I'll put some more context on why this announcement is important.
The second item is our progress in security.
We refined our security strategy improved our products and delivered significant new capabilities over the past year.
You'll be hearing more details on what we're up to over the coming weeks at events like RSA and Mobile World Congress and I will offer a bit of a preview today.
So let's start with our SDN announcement.
I think we all appreciate that SDN is likely to represent a significant shift in networking.
Yet for all the hype the industry conversation has been pretty narrowly focused.
We actually view SDN as a much broader opportunity than what's been defined to date by industry players and analysts.
Although we've been fairly quiet up until now we've been working hard behind the scenes for some time.
And what we articulated last week is a clear vision for the industry as well as a pathway for our customers service providers enterprise and cloud providers to begin thinking about how they will embrace SDN in their networks.
We intend to lead the shift to SDN.
We started that conversation last week by defining 6 principles for SDN and providing customers with a 4-step road map steps that will help enterprise and networks operators achieve the real promise of SDN making their networks more agile and lowering their OpEx.
We strongly believe that Juniper is ideally positioned to take this leadership role in SDN.
The factors that are driving the SDN opportunity uniquely align with Juniper's strengths and track record of disruptive innovation.
Our technology vision for SDN will embrace Juniper's focus on silicon systems and software.
But the business model is just as important.
Leveraging proven business software industry practices we believe that the licensing model we introduced last week Juniper Software Advantage will deliver great value to our customers while driving incremental revenue growth for Juniper in the years ahead.
So we think we're in an excellent position to succeed with our SDN strategy in business.
Depending on where you sit in networking industry SDN can be an opportunity or a threat.
For Juniper it's an incredible opportunity.
We look forward to keeping you updated.
Let's now turn to security.
The SRX continues to gain traction with service providers and we see more opportunity ahead as the international mobile market moves to LTE.
We expect this to continue as SPs expand from large cell towers to small cells within shopping malls stadiums and other high-traffic areas to provide better service and more effectively utilize their licensed spectrum.
The combination of leading performance together with well-established customer adoption uniquely positions the SRX to capture these deployments.
We are still turning the corner on enterprise security sales but in Q4 we made major strides with our delivery of great security products that meet the needs of enterprise customers.
As we committed earlier this year in Q4 we released the production version of our integrated security management product Security Director [ph].
This product has been in trial with 100-plus beta customers and has already been deployed by over 25 customers cutting across enterprise vertical segments including financial services healthcare and retail as well as service providers.
In addition over the past 6 months we engaged in many strategic security conversations with enterprise CSOs.
Mykonos Juniper's thought leadership intrusion deception technology has garnered both significant interest as well as new sales in the enterprise and has provided us with a vehicle to discuss our overall security portfolio.
At the upcoming RSA event in San Francisco you'll be hearing more about our new security product offerings.
We will also have some exciting news to share at Mobile World Congress around our security offerings in the 4G LTE environment.
We're pretty excited about what's on tap at security in 2013.
We've accomplished a lot in the past year from stabilizing the business to charting a strategy for resumed growth and now the fun stuff executing on that strategy and showing customers what we can do.
As we've said many times security is a growth market and for Juniper it's a core area.
Despite our recent challenges we have a double-digit share of this market.
We are committed to growing that share and we are putting the pieces in place to do just that.
And now here's Robyn.
Thank you Bob and good afternoon everyone.
In the fourth quarter Juniper improved operational execution and delivered good results.
I'm pleased with our quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year revenue growth and our operating margin expansion.
Looking at the year overall in a challenging macro and market environment we continued to make progress in 3 main areas: first operational excellence where we aligned our cost structure to sharpen our focus enable agility and drive efficiencies; second focus on innovation where we strengthened our portfolio with disruptive new products and key enhancements to existing products especially in the enterprise security and data center; and third prudent capital allocation where we are adding complementary technology through acquisition and increased our share buybacks.
We have largely completed our announced headcount action.
We've also made significant progress on the facility and other action.
These are all intended to bring our cost structure more in line with our long-term model.
As expected these restructuring-related actions resulted in pretax charges for the fourth quarter of $11 million associated with severance facilities and other restructuring costs.
We also completed the acquisition of Contrail Systems for a total of $176 million of cash and equity.
The total net cash outlay was $49 million and the remainder of the consideration was in the form of equity awards.
Looking at our demand metrics for the quarter book to bill remained greater than 1.
Product backlog increased sequentially for the third quarter in a row reaching $410 million up 17% sequentially and 37% from a year ago.
As anticipated product deferred revenue decreased sequentially and increased year-over-year.
The sequential decrease was due to delivery of certain software features in the quarter.
Total revenue for the fourth quarter was $1 141 000 000 an increase of 2% both sequentially and year-over-year.
The sequential increase was due primarily to growth in Americas service provider revenues and modest improvement in EMEA.
The year-over-year increase is due to growth in U.S.
service providers.
Revenue for the full year was $4 365 000 000 down 2% year-over-year.
During 2012 we strengthened our product portfolio with the rollout of new products and product enhancements.
We also had good year-over-year growth in existing products.
Compared to 2011 SRX grew 17% EX grew 8% and MX grew 7%.
Verizon accounted for over 10% of Juniper's total revenue both in the fourth quarter and for the full year.
Verizon continues to be a strategic customer and deploys many of our routing switching and security products across both their wired and wireless networks.
For the fourth quarter GAAP diluted earnings per share were $0.19.
This includes the impact of the restructuring charges I noted earlier which totaled $0.02 per share.
Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share were $0.28 up $0.06 sequentially and flat with the fourth quarter of last year.
The sequential increase reflected the combination of revenue growth good gross margins and lower operating expenses.
For the full year GAAP diluted earnings per share were $0.35 compared to $0.79 for the prior year.
Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share were $0.85 versus $1.19 a year ago.
Now let me provide some color on revenue by region business segment and market.
Americas revenue was up 8% sequentially and 16% year-over-year.
The sequential and year-over-year increase was due to U.S.
service provider growth.
This was partially offset by a decrease in U.S.
enterprise as a result of weakness in federal.
EMEA revenue was up 5% sequentially and down 15% year-over-year.
While EMEA remains challenged we continue to see modest improvement in the demand environment particularly in Western and Southern Europe.
APAC revenue was down 18% sequentially due to a significant decline in China service provider.
Now let me review our revenue by segment.
Platform Systems division revenue for the fourth quarter was $930 million up 4% both sequentially and year-over-year.
PSD router product revenue was $514 million up 5% sequentially and 7% year-over-year.
The sequential increase was driven by record revenue for MX and good growth in PTX.
Year-over-year we saw significant growth in the MX product family driven by U.S.
service provider and the Edge.
This growth more than offset the anticipated decline in older M and E Series products.
We will continue to closely manage our supply chain in response to increasing service provider Edge routing demand.
Total router product revenue including both PSD and SSD increased 3% sequentially to $531 million.
Total switching product revenue was $146 million flat sequentially and down 6% year-over-year.
It's important to note that orders grew 19% sequentially and given the timing of these orders we ended the quarter with a strong backlog.
SSD revenue in the fourth quarter was $211 million down 6% sequentially and 7% year-over-year.
Total security product revenue was $170 million down 4% sequentially and 8% year-over-year.
The 8% year-over-year reduction in total security product revenue reflects the continued decline in our ScreenOS enterprise firewall business.
And as Bob outlined we have been taking steps to address this with enhanced functionality and management features.
Consistent with the trend we have seen over the last year service provider accounts for approximately 35% of our total security product revenue.
High-end SRX product revenue declined 19%.
We expect revenue for this product to continue to fluctuate based on the timing of service provider deployments.
Branch SRX was up 17% sequentially and 18% year-over-year demonstrating the early signs of progress we are seeing with our enterprise customers.
I'd also like to provide some insight into demand for our new products.
At SAM we said we expected the combined revenue from ACX QFabric PTX T4000 and MobileNext that we would exit the fourth quarter of 2013 with a quarterly revenue run rate of $150 million.
We have seen healthy bookings for the new products and we believe that we are on track to achieve this level of revenue.
For Q4 2012 we are pleased with our progress.
The combined bookings in these 5 products are approximately 50% of our total 2013 year-end goal.
Looking more closely at the markets we address service provider revenue was $740 million up 5% sequentially and 9% year-over-year.
Both the sequential and year-over-year increases were attributable to broad strength in Americas service provider where we've seen good breadth of demand across all verticals carriers both wireless and wireline cable and content service providers.
We've also benefited from modest improvement in demand in EMEA.
Enterprise revenue was $401 million down 3% sequentially and 10% year-over-year.
The sequential decline reflects weakness in the Americas primarily federal which was offset by an increase in EMEA.
The year-over-year decrease was also attributable to America's enterprise with both federal and financial services declining compared to a strong Q4 2011.
Our enterprise business in APAC has performed well this year.
For 2012 our total revenues in the U.S.
federal area accounted for approximately 4% of full year total revenue.
Moving on to gross margins and operating expenses.
Non-GAAP gross margins for the fourth quarter was 65.3% compared to 65.6% last quarter.
This was slightly better than we expected due to favorable mix and a strong services margin performance.
Non-GAAP product gross margins were 66% compared to 66.8% in the third quarter and non-GAAP services gross margins were 63.2% up 1 point from the prior quarter.
Non-GAAP operating expenses were better than expected decreasing 1% sequentially to $537 million as a result of cost reduction activities.
Looking at headcount we ended the quarter with 9 234 employees down 350 from the third quarter.
This headcount includes the employees from the Contrail acquisition.
We are pleased with our activities on the cost structure and we are committed to achieving our targeted cost reductions.
Non-GAAP operating margin for the quarter was 18.2%.
I'm pleased with this result which was due to a combination of higher revenue higher gross margins and lower operating expenses.
The non-GAAP tax rate was 26.8%.
As a reminder the fourth quarter tax rate does not reflect the renewal of the R&amp;D tax credit which came into effect in early 2013.
Looking at the balance sheet we ended the quarter with $2.8 billion of net cash and investments.
Cash flow from operations was $155 million down sequentially as a result of an increase in working capital.
DSO was 35 days in the quarter.
Capital expenditures and depreciation were both up slightly from the prior quarter.
We repurchased 14.5 million shares for $250 million at an average price of $17.24.
We have $568 million remaining on our current authorization.
And we expect to continue to calibrate our buybacks in future quarters with market conditions at the time.
As we have done in the past we kick off the year with an updated set of operating principles which provide insight on how we are managing the business.
For 2013 our 5 principles are: We expect the macroeconomic environment to remain uncertain.
We expect overall modest growth in the markets we serve.
We expect to take share in routing and switching and stabilize our share in enterprise security.
We expect to expand 2013 operating margins over 2012.
And we expect to continue to generate strong cash flows and prudently allocate capital.
Now I will review our outlook for the first quarter.
And as a reminder these metrics are provided on a non-GAAP basis except for revenue and share count.
Our outlook for the March quarter reflects our expectation of a typical seasonal decline especially in the enterprise sector.
This decline is consistent with the cautious approach our customers are taking to capital deployment.
In service provider we see a continuation of U.S.
service provider capital spending and some signs of improvement emerging in EMEA.
With that backdrop for the first quarter we expect revenues to range from $1 050 000 000 to $1 070 000 000.
Gross margins are expected to be in the range of 64% plus or minus 0.5 point.
Operating expenses are expected to be $515 million plus or minus $5 million.
We expect operating margins to range from 14% to 16%.
This is expected to result in non-GAAP diluted EPS of between $0.18 and $0.22 per share.
This assumes flat share count and a tax rate of 29% which does reflect the Q1 impact of the R&amp;D tax credit.
Given the timing of the renewal of the tax credit and its retroactive application to 2012 we expect an additional benefit to the Tier 1 tax rate of approximately $15 million.
This is not reflected in the 29% rate that I just mentioned.
In summary throughout 2012 we have focused on improved operational execution continued innovation and prudent capital allocation.
We finished the year with a good quarter.
In 2013 we will navigate with the same disciplined approach driving growth by taking share in routing and switching while stabilizing security.
I'd like to thank our employees for their hard work and ongoing commitment to executing our strategy for driving revenue growth and disciplined operational execution.
Now I will hand it back to the operator to open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Jeff Kvaal of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I have a question Kevin for you and one for you Robyn as well.
Kevin you had spent some time during the quarter talking about the routing cycle and how you felt there was time for a recovery.
Can you give us a bit of insight into how you are thinking about what that means for your 2013 growth rate? You talked about growth in your present press release as well.
If you could give us some more thought behind that that'd be wonderful.
Yes.
Go ahead with the second question you had for Robyn Jeff? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Robyn I wanted to know on the OpEx side of things if you could tell us is that $515 million guidance for the March quarter is that effectively where we should think about your OpEx plan as bringing the OpEx? Or is there another leg to go after that? Thanks for the question Jeff.
I'll take the first one then hand over to Robyn.
2012 year-to-date through Q3 the addressable -- total addressable market for routing had actually declined by about 3 percentage points.
Yet at the same time traffic continues to grow.
And we had a service provider customer event in early December and just confirmed with our customers that certainly traffic was continuing to grow through that period.
And what that means then is overall the service providers are running their networks hotter.
And so it's a matter of time when they cycle through and say "Okay now it's time to make new capital investments in routing infrastructure either to a modernize those networks or b add capacity to them." And I think based on the set of projects that we're engaged in and have been awarded combined with the uptick we saw in Q3 on service provider routing spending I think that's an indicator that I think we're about to enter a better cycle for routing spend which leads to our view that we think this is an opportunity for growth in 2013.
I'll remind you it's still early and it still varies by geography but we had a very strong quarter with our U.S.
Tier 1 service providers and we've got a good base of wins in both Europe and Asia Pacific.
So we'll see how things play out.
But I think if history repeats itself it looks like we're on that kind of cycle.
Let me ask Rami if he wants to add anything to that as well.
Sure.
Yes I would agree with that Kevin.
If you -- in talking to many of our customers throughout the quarter I would say that a lot of the usual trends that we've been seeing are going to start to impact them in 2013 around just dealing with capacity the results from video traffic as well as convergence.
I mean our operators are looking for ways to simplify their networks to collapse networks and just reduce the OpEx of running those networks.
And I do think that some of those investment cycles that Kevin talked about throughout 2013 are going to play out.
Yes and just let me talk about OpEx.
So as I guided in the prepared remarks OpEx is $515 million plus or minus $5 million for the Q1 period of time.
I want to remind you that Q1 is where we see an increase typically in OpEx around FICO and variable compensation for employees.
I also said in my prepared remarks that we are largely complete with our employee actions but we are continuing in terms of facilities and the other actions that we have around cost structure.
So my view is we're well on track to achieve the cost targets that we've talked about previously.
The next question is from Tal Liani of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions the first one is on switching.
Switching was down as you said about 6.5% year-over-year I think and flat sequentially.
But you also said that the orders were up 19%.
And I'm wondering what causes in switching what causes the orders -- and I assume it's enterprise switching.
So the question is what causes in switching the orders to go into the deferred and not into recognition? Is it just timing or there is more of a long-term contract et cetera? So that's one question.
The second question is about OpEx again.
And the question is how much of your announced cost cuts was already implemented in the fourth quarter third quarter et cetera? You gave us very good guidance before about the amount and how it falls in the -- where it falls in the P&amp;L.
And I'm wondering if you can update us on what it was done already and what's going to be done in the next few quarters.
Yes thanks for your questions Tal.
I'll -- Rami and I will take the first one and we'll hand over to Robyn for the second one.
On your question on switching in the quarter enterprise switching grew sequentially.
And the place that we had bookings that we're going to ship in Q1 was on the service provider side.
And the way I interpret that is when I look at the spending patterns of service providers and the orders they place they prioritize the CapEx around shipping the routing infrastructure and placed orders for some switching that's going to ship in Q1.
So actually our enterprise switching grew and the bookings that are shipping in Q1 were service providers.
So it's not unusual for service providers to place orders for routing switching security and book those and say "Okay we want this to ship in Q1." And that's mainly the way that each one of them is prioritizing where they're putting their CapEx.
Rami do you want to add anything to that? Sure.
Yes I mean that's essentially right.
The service provider component of switching tends to be lumpy because it depends on fewer number of orders from fewer customers.
So that's what we saw happening in Q4.
The other thing that's just worthwhile reiterating is simply that we've been introducing new functionality to our QFabric product.
In fact we introduced a new version of our QFabric which is the -- what we call the micro fabric the smaller version which we've seen hit the sweet spot in the market.
And as a result of that we've seen an increase in the number of customers and greater adoption of that product in the switching market.
Yes and in terms of OpEx Tal I did talk about the overall targets that we have for the full year in terms of taking out OpEx.
Those percentages still apply.
I talked about 75% 80% in OpEx and the rest of it in cost of goods sold.
And I'll reiterate.
You can see that the headcount is down net about 350 at the end of the year.
That -- we did previously talk about notifying about 500 heads.
So there are still some that were onboard at the end of December so some will come out in the third quarter.
But largely the headcount action has been taken.
Obviously not all the cost savings are in there that's reflected in the $515 million guidance that I've given you for the first quarter.
Things that we will see that actually will reduce OpEx as we move forward are some of the facilities and other related cost actions some of which are in the COGS areas I've mentioned before around supply chain activities that type of thing.
But overall we're very comfortable with actions we've taken.
They're the right actions.
They do help us with our agility our focus and our state as a company as well as taking out costs and aligning the cost structure to our long-term model.
Research Division</strong> So Robyn the -- is there a specific number how much cost cuts is left to be done? We -- I haven't called out that number in terms of what's left to be done.
You can see by the guidance that there's a significant reduction.
Typically what we see in the first quarter is an increase in expenditure to do with variable comp and the FICO et cetera.
So you can expect some additional decline from the 15 -- $515 million number.
Our next question is from Ehud Gelblum of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First of all Robyn thanks for that switching order number 19%.
Can you give us a sense as to what the routing orders looked like in the quarter to give us some kind of handle on what that looked like? And I think Kevin you talked -- you spoke about I think 130 or 133.
I didn't -- must not have got it correctly wrote down new customers in Q4.
I believe that was for you said data center switching.
But if you can say that again or clarify if that in fact was QFabric or that was all of switching.
And how that compares to last quarter when I don't think we had a number for that.
Then I have a follow-up on tax rate.
Yes I'll take the second question and hand over to Robyn.
What I said Ehud was we had over 130 net new QFabric customers in Q4.
And that was a result of I think in many ways the release or introduction of the micro fabric.
And Robyn you want to take the other question? Yes.
So in terms of...
Research Division</strong> Kevin can I just ask -- clarify that? Is that for the top-of-rack the way it used to be in previous quarters or were those -- some of those taking the full solutions? Absolutely they're taking the full solution.
We also had -- I commented that we had over 130 net new incremental QFabric customers and a wave of full fabric deployments.
So certainly a portion of those were -- all of the lease were known customers and there's a wave of full fabric deployments as well.
Research Division</strong> How many does that give us in total? Because you used to give a cumulative total.
I don't have that number Ehud.
I -- we just looked at it sort of once at the release that micro fabric came out what was the impact on that.
So I apologize I don't have that number in front of me.
So in terms of the backlog as I mentioned the backlog was up again sequentially.
That's the third quarter in a row it reached $410 million for the quarter so it's up nicely at 17% sequentially and 37% year-over-year.
And clearly in any quarter a significant proportion of our backlog is always routing.
So we were happy with the bookings in the quarter.
As Rami mentioned before we talked about a very good MX quarter in terms of revenue.
There are deployments happening on the Edge and that's a good indicator for us in terms of the demand environment.
Our next question is from Rod Hall of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
I wanted to ask about PSD and SSD's contribution margins.
Sequentially PSD up quite a bit and then SSD down.
I'm particularly interested in maybe getting more color on the PSD contribution margins your trajectory.
I think Robyn you said that MX and PTX were big contributors to the growth in there.
Can you just talk to us a little bit about was it mostly MX driving the margin better? Or did -- if PTX maybe a little bit more than -- better margin a lot of it's expected? And then I was curious Robyn why you guys didn't mention the T4000.
So I just wondered if you could give a little update on what the latest status on T4000 refresh is.
So in terms of the overall margin Rod let me talk about that.
And then I'll let Rami talk about the T4000.
So in terms of PSD margin and SSD clearly volume has a big amount to play with those overall contribution margins.
We saw a surge in revenue as you saw from the numbers in terms of PSD given that routing is up et cetera.
And obviously with the high-end SRX decline quarter-over-quarter which we were expecting because of the service provider deployment that actually weighs on the overall revenue being down for SSD and therefore the contribution margin.
So if I up-level the discussion you talked about gross margins the gross margins in the quarter were healthy.
They were actually better than we expected and I mentioned that in the prepared remarks.
That was primarily the result of 2 factors.
One was mix was better.
We did see a good uptick in MX in the quarter.
And then the second factor was the services gross margin.
That was actually a very good gross margin for them given their execution in the quarter and also the result of some of the cost reductions that we've been focused on in that area.
So the 2 factors combined increased the gross margin from our guidance for the fourth quarter.
I can weigh in a bit on the T4000 question.
We definitely saw in Q4 that there was a bias of investment by service providers towards the Edge.
And this is -- if you look at the investment drivers in the Edge in the quarter they differ somewhat.
In the quarter it's really all about capacity.
So operators will tend to defer investment until they actually hit the capacity constraint.
In the Edge it's about capacity but it's also about just connectivity it's also about services.
What we saw in Q4 that the Edge drivers were much stronger than the core driver.
And for that reason there was in fact a decline in T4000 upgrades overall.
Now if you'll look out into 2013 we expect that because of the fact that networks are running hotter and eventually the constraint or the bottlenecks in the network will start to move from Edge to core that will start to be a driver for upgrades in T4000 and also a driver for adoption of the PTX as well.
Our next question is from Brian Marshall of ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Considering the T4000 is probably the company's highest gross margin product family out there and you're guiding margins in March to be down about 130 basis points sequentially to 64%.
Would that -- I guess that would imply that you still don't expect the T4K line cards to be deployed en masse in the March quarter? I guess that's question number one.
And then second question is with respect to pre-configured systems gaining traction out there in the marketplace and obviously Juniper has a partnership with IBM Secure [ph] can you talk a little bit about how this is developing? And is this a focus for you? And are there perhaps other opportunities out there for the company to pursue from a partnership perspective? Okay.
Thanks Brian.
I'll talk about gross margins.
So in terms of the absolute gross margins between T and MX and routing in particular versus switching and security go back to the SAM slide that I put on gross margins.
We made good margins on routing and security.
Obviously switching is slightly lower QFabric is higher.
So it's not a reflection of our expected demand for T4000.
We obviously when I was talking about switching I gave you the bookings mix versus the revenue mix.
So the book they obviously -- the overall mix of switching in the quarter for Q4 was lower than we've seen.
So that had a positive impact if you like to mix in terms of the gross margin factors.
But overall the gross margins are healthy.
We're happy with where we are in terms of our long-term model range.
Obviously we called that range out in June as well at 63% to 66% and 2 quarters in a row different factors but we're in that 65% range which we're comfortable with.
In the next quarter volume clearly plays a role in our gross margin.
So given the revenues down quarter-over-quarter you would expect to have an impact on the gross margins just related to that volume drop quarter-over-quarter.
And Brian the second question you asked was related to our partnership with IBM and some work we've done with IBM and a distribution partner Arrow that we both work with.
Fundamentally IBM has put together the PureFlex Systems and we've worked with Arrow and IBM to now integrate QFabric nodes in the top-of-rack of those integrated systems.
And that allows the systems to operate in a standard 2-tier Ethernet mode or in a QFabric mode.
And we've gone through the testing and certification to make sure that we've got a fantastic solution for customers who look to have a fully integrated solution.
I think that was announced last week in our Global Partner Conference.
I mentioned too we continue to work very closely with a number of partners in the industry.
I think we also announced in 2012 the second half of 2012 completing the interoperability testing with EMC and the EMC storage in QFabric.
And so these are just examples of use cases and scenarios where we've been working with partners and we're pleased.
It's early days with the IBM Arrow work that we just announced last week but we do feel good about the fact we've got a reconfigured tested certified solution from both IBM and Juniper that we can stand behind with our customers who want a fully integrated stack.
Our next question is from Simona Jankowski of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just had a clarification first for Robyn and then a question.
When you commented Robyn that in the current deferred revenue decline most of that was due to the recognition of some large software piece of revenue can you just clarify which segment that was recognized in? Was it in routing or switching or security? And then when you highlighted a couple of the areas of weakness in Q4 namely one in a large China service provider and then also in the federal segment for each of those can you just comment on whether you expect those to come back either in the first quarter or in the full year 2013? So Simona in terms of the deferred revenue it wasn't software that we recognized it was actually systems.
So it was in the PSD area largely in routing.
And that's -- the features that we're talking about were releases of Junos with the features that caused the deferral in the first place if you like in terms of commitments on those features.
So thank you for the clarification.
It was the systems revenue that actually the deferral came from.
Yes and on the second part of your question Simona let me address it.
I think as Robyn mentioned a large service provider in China we had a big project that completed in Q3 and so that created a comparable from Q3 and we continue to drive opportunities in China.
And service provider spending will be lumpy as it is in other customers as they start stop projects but the service provider sector overall we think the trend of a more prude spending cycle will continue to unfold.
In U.S.
federal segment I think that -- as U.S.
federal has been a customer set that's been down in 2012 and certainly was down in Q4.
And given the situation that our U.S.
government is dealing with whether it's the fiscal cliff the debt ceiling the budget I don't anticipate that becoming more clear anytime soon.
But we will all see.
Our next question is from Kevin Dennean of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> You clearly sound better on the service provider outlook and you mentioned that you have plans to take share in routing in 2013.
Can you discuss a little bit where you think the opportunity to take share in routing is? Is it core? Is it Edge? Is it the PTX ramping? And also maybe where you see the biggest opportunities to do that in terms of geographies.
Let me just -- I'll just kick it off but I'll let Rami add to this.
I think if you just look at the Infonetics share data on routing Q1 of 2012 was a bottom point.
And sequentially since Q1 Q2 and Q3 we've gained very modest amount of share but we've been gaining share slightly.
We'll see what the numbers play out for Q4.
And Rami I'll let you kind of share your perspective on the product side and the different areas of network that we feel we've got good strength and position to gain share.
Sure.
So in routing 2 primary areas I would say first is -- and both in the service provider first in the Edge the other one in the core.
In the Edge it's really all about execution towards our Universal Edge strategy that we have been working on for the last several years in fact.
We continually enhance the feature set of our MX product such that it delivers new and interesting offerings that satisfy our customers' requirements.
So that puts it into different applications like business services residential services and increasingly mobile services.
And as you also know in the Edge one of the things that we did in 2012 was that we complemented our Edge offering with an end-to-end solution for mobile backhaul and Universal Access.
So all of these I think are going to be big drivers for us in 2013.
In the core as well I would say that we have a very rich offering right now with the PTX sort of as a disruptive play for transport.
T Series has a really nice investment protection play to increase the capacity of existing T Series deployments especially.
And also the introduction of the MX 2020 that we are this quarter that will essentially give us a bit of a different approach of an all-out services approach for Edge core and aggregation.
So I think we've got a really rich set of offerings in the core as well.
Our next question is from Ittai Kidron of Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Robyn I wanted to dig a little bit into the switching again.
Can you tell us a little bit more color on the revenue in the quarter splitting it between QFabric the EX and your WiFi business? And the second question regarding the order figure I just want to make sure that we're looking at this on an apples-to-apples basis.
Clearly you have a book to bill in this segment above 1 but can you tell us what was it from -- in the third quarter? I'm just trying to understand whether this 19% quarter-over-quarter is off a low number from the third quarter or off of solid strong number in the third as well.
Yes.
Thank you Ittai.
So in terms of the second question around the order patterns and that type of things I called out the orders for switching because obviously that was a different pattern to revenue so I always want to give you insight into where those patterns are different.
So in the fourth quarter we did see strong orders as I mentioned before.
In terms of the third quarter there was nothing unusual about the third quarter otherwise I would have called that out.
And so our view is it is an important data point for you to have in terms of the bookings versus the revenue in the quarter.
And as we've mentioned earlier in response to another question it is different -- was different by enterprise versus service provider.
We saw good sequential increase in enterprise revenue.
So that is on that question.
In terms of the split between the different product families within switching we have not broken that out on the call and it's not the right time for us to do that.
At some point in the future we may do that but not today.
Our next question is from Mark Sue of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> If we look at the full year and consider the likelihood of a reacceleration in revenue growth on the second half what would they -- would that mostly be market recovery of switching and routing? Or which state would be a better uptake of some of the new products and also the new SRX products? Can you just -- and your thoughts maybe on what Juniper might do to stimulate demand? And then separately reading into your comments on capital allocations -- for capital allocation it sounds like you're so close to announcing a dividend.
Maybe if you can highlight your comfort with future cash flows.
Well I'll let you take the second one Robyn.
Thanks for your questions Mark.
Go ahead Robyn.
So Mark in terms of the dividend we're not announcing a dividend.
We would tell you if we were announcing a dividend.
We're not doing that at some point.
Obviously our cash flows are strong and we've had opportunistic repurchases over the last few quarters to bring the share count down and also obviously return capital to shareholders at the right time.
So our point of view in terms of -- we have a prudent capital allocation strategy that balances our growth agenda both organic and inorganic.
And our M&amp;A strategy has not changed.
We'll continue to do technology tuck-ins over time and then also our repurchase program.
So the 3 things are our capital allocation program.
Yes and your first question Mark I think I would sort of highlight 4 things that I think are important and relevant in the question of how we stimulate demand how we go about creating opportunities for us to grow share in a market that on the service provider side should be improving throughout the year.
The first is we've got to start with great products.
And I think when we look at our routing portfolio I think we feel like not only have we introduced great new products but we've enhanced our existing product set enhanced them with new features that Rami made and fundamentally we've improved quality of those products as well.
So I think when we look at everything from what we're doing in core routing to Edge routing to the access and aggregation layers of routing we feel like we've got a very very compelling portfolio and one that is just stronger today than it was a year ago.
And you look then across our switching fabric portfolio and with continued focus on that we continue to see growth opportunities and certainly in the areas of security we have a very strong service provider security business.
And we've acknowledged there were some gaps competitive gaps in our enterprise security portfolio that we've been closing.
So I think in all dimensions of the product setting we've strengthened our product sets.
So it's got to start with great products.
Number two we look at our key accounts our largest customers.
We've really focused on how we execute well and deepening those relationships with those key accounts.
And that's where the work that we've been doing to win a number of these projects and really align the value that we're bringing to those accounts with the strategy that they're on.
We think we've deepened those relationships and it's been shown in our customer satisfaction surveys.
We just finished our customer sat survey at the end of 2012 and overall satisfaction with Juniper is up; overall satisfaction with the quality of account management up; product quality up; service and support up.
So we've really engaged in a deeper way and we're seeing good results from that.
The third then is our partners.
We just hosted our Global Partner Conference last week in Las Vegas.
We has over 1 000 people live at the event and over 2 000 attending via webcast and continuing to educate and arm our partners with the information they need to go grow their business and do it based on Juniper technology.
I think we had a very very very good event and a lot of very positive energy there.
And so when I look at it those are kind of 3 examples of things that we're very focused on and all those things come down to excellence and execution and how we're focused on both the innovation agenda and the go-to-market agenda and just executing better.
And that's going to help us.
Thank you.
That is all the time we have for the call today.
We'd like to thank everyone for joining us.
And your IR team is hosting several events during the quarter including one at Mobile World Congress.
We hope you'll be able to join us via webcast and we'll be sending out details soon.
Thanks everyone for joining us.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Juniper Networks First Quarter 2013 Financial Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Ms.
Kathleen Nemeth Vice President Investor Relations.
Thank you Ms.
Nemeth you may begin.
Thank you operator.
Good afternoon and thank you everyone for joining us today.
Here on the call are: Kevin Johnson Chief Executive Officer; Robyn Denholm Chief Financial Officer; and Rami Rahim Executive Vice President Platform Systems Division.
In addition Bob Muglia Executive Vice President Software Solutions division is on the call and will be available for Q&amp;A.
Before we continue I would like to highlight changes to our reporting segments which are reflected in today's press release.
Juniper made changes  to better align our business segment reporting to our current organizational structure.
Security products previously reported in our Platform Systems Division PSD segment are now reported in our Software Solutions Division SSD segment.
Juniper believes  this change will provide investors with increased financial reporting transparency and will enable better insight into the trends driving our business.
A summary showing PSD and SSD quarterly revenues on a basis consistent with the new reporting structure is included in Appendix 1 of today's press release.
Please remember when listening to today's call that statements concerning Juniper's business outlook economic and market outlook strategy future financial operating results and overall future prospects are forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors including economic condition generally or within the networking industry; changes in overall technology spending and spending by communication service providers and major customers; the network capacity requirements of service providers; the timing of orders and shipments; manufacturing and supply chain constraints; variation in the mix of products sold customer perception and acceptance of our products; rapid technological and market change; litigation and other factors listed in our most recent 10-K filed with the SEC.
All statements made during this call are made only as of today.
Juniper undertakes no obligation to update the information in this conference call in the event facts or circumstances change after the date of this call.
In discussing the financial results Robyn will first present results on a GAAP basis and for the purposes of today's discussion we'll also review non-GAAP results.
For important commentary on why the management team considers non-GAAP information a useful view of the company's financial results please consult the press release furnished with our 8-K filed with the SEC today.
For a detailed reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP results please see the Investor Relations section of our website.
In general non-GAAP results exclude certain nonrecurring charges amortization of purchased intangibles and other acquisition charges and expenses related to stock-based compensation.
On today's call Robyn will also be providing forward-looking guidance.
As a reminder guidance is provided on a non-GAAP basis other than that with respect to revenue and share count.
All guidance is forward-looking and actual results may vary for the reasons I noted earlier.
GAAP guidance measures are not available on a forward-looking basis due to the high variability and low visibility with respect to certain charges which are excluded from the non-GAAP guidance estimate.
Please note that today's call is scheduled to last for 1 hour and please limit your questions to one per firm.
With that I'll turn the call over to Kevin.
Thanks Kathleen and welcome everyone.
Our results for the first quarter are in line with the guidance we shared with you on our January conference call.
We are off to a good start to 2013 with strength in key markets and some signs of improving demand trends.
To be sure there are headwinds in certain areas of our business but overall we executed well against the priorities we outlined last quarter.
I'll review the performance of our 2 market segments.
Service provider was a good story for us in Q1 with our third consecutive quarter of year-on-year growth.
Sequential results reflected anticipated first quarter seasonality.
The U.S.
market for routing continues to strengthen as we anticipated while Verizon and AT&amp;T were 10% customers for us in the quarter and we continue to see good demand trends with Tier 1 service providers and other verticals like content providers and cable.
APAC and EMEA were weaker in the quarter though we are seeing signs of modest improvement in demand in service providers in Europe.
Enterprise is a more challenging market at present with flat year-on-year performance.
A lot of the challenge stems from weak public sector spending in particular U.S.
federal along with softness in financial services.
We have communicated steadily over the last several quarters about expected weakness in federal.
We do not expect this pattern to improve in the near term.
While the Enterprise market has seen challenges across several verticals in recent periods we are committed to continue investment across our businesses of routing switching and security and we are confident in our products and our roadmap.
I'd like to spend a few minutes discussing 3 specific areas of focus at Juniper: Service Provider routing data center and security.
Routing was a highlight in the quarter with particular strength in U.S.
carrier.
The content and cable segments of U.S.
Service Provider also showed good momentum.
We are seeing continued signs that Service Provider CapEx is improving at a time when our portfolio of new routing products are being well-received by our customers.
We continue to expand our reach in edge routing and we are seeing good customer engagement in the core.
We are building on our heritage in Service Provider innovation delivering the most complete and differentiated portfolio in our history most recently with the release of the MX2020.
Data center.
Our Switching business also performed well in the quarter.
We continue to be confident in our opportunity notwithstanding current macro challenges particularly as we see the QFabric family of products gaining more traction.
We're also introducing new products in our EX line including the EX9200 launched earlier this month.
The EX9200 is the industry's most advanced programmable core switch and will support future software-defined networking protocols in emerging applications both in data center as well as campus and branch environments.
Security.
Despite disappointing results in Security in Q1 we believe we are taking the right steps to improve the business.
We recently released Security Director which is being well-received by customers.
In addition there are 3 pillars to our security strategy.
In Service Provider it's about leveraging and extending what we believe is a strong position.
We continue to scale the high-end SRX to handle a large number of concurrent sessions which differentiates us in the Service Provider LTE deployments.
In the data center we just announced a refresh of features including a new capability called Spotlight.
We believe this provides us unique differentiation in the data center.
We have strong engagements and we are focused on turning those into customer wins.
In Campus and Branch we still have work to do but we have a focused strategy for building an increasingly robust product in feature portfolio and regaining share.
Wrapping up we had a solid start to the year.
Execution is improving and that shows in the results.
We retain our strong conviction in our opportunity.
We believe Juniper is well-positioned to address a very good long-term growth market.
Near term we are confident in our ability to return to growth in Service Provider and strengthen our Enterprise business.
Our new products continue to gain traction and we are committed to investing in innovation with a more robust portfolio that can be leveraged across both Service Provider and Enterprise markets.
Overall we are staying true to our 2013 operating principles and are focused on delivering great products maintaining our focus on operational execution and managing costs carefully.
The underlying trends driving network investment remain strong and I'm confident of Juniper's position for future success.
I'll turn it over now to Rami to discuss highlights from our Platform Systems Division.
Rami? Thanks Kevin.
It's a pleasure to join the earnings call this quarter.
I took over as EVP/GM of the Platform Systems Division PSD in November of 2012.
I'm responsible for driving strategy development and business growth for Juniper's portfolio of routing switching and wireless LAN products as well as for the ongoing evolution of our silicon technology and the Junos operating system.
Overall I'm pleased with PSD's results in Q1 2013.
Kevin covered the results at a high level so what I'd like to do is walk through some of the drivers behind the quarter's results and put them in context.
Our 5 key focus areas when it comes to our platforms are: core Universal Edge and Universal Access on the Service Provider side; the campus on the Enterprise side; and the virtualized data center which spans both Service Provider and Enterprise.
In the Service Provider business growth was driven by the business edge and broadband edge segment where we're seeing wins around the world with large service providers driving broadband deployment.
We also recently introduced the MX2020 in a 2 x 100 gb line cards which we expect to begin ramping as we head through the year.
While the overall market for the core declined during 2012 we have seen a solid ramp-up of the PTX product family and the recent introduction of T4000 multichassis in the segment.
In the core Juniper has always been a leader in performance.
Today we have a three-pronged innovation strategy to go after the market that plays out to our strength and gives us a unique opportunity to win.
With the PTX we've defined a new product category which is a packet-oriented transport device that moves packets through the network more efficiently than any other system in the world.
As an example of PTX's capability consider that it has approximately 4x the power efficiency of its nearest competitor.
In keeping with our goal to drive the benefits of the converged supercore to the broadest set of customers last month we introduced the PTX3000 which is well suited for smaller core than metro core because of its form factor.
It's less than a foot deep.
It fits in environments and locations where a traditional core router would not.
It provides transport level  resiliency and performance an important first step towards full-packet optical conversion.
Market recognition and customer feedback has been very enthusiastic and we're on track to ship in the second half of this year.
The second important element of our core strategy consists of the T series which remains the best investment protection story in the industry.
This platform started shipping a decade ago but still has very high-density line cards today roughly twice the density of our primary core competitor.
And as I mentioned the recent introduction of the T4000 multichassis product only strengthens this platform's value proposition.
And the last weapon in our core arsenal is the MX.
With the MX we have the ability to introduce a core product that's very service-rich and in so doing we've blurred the lines between the traditional edge of the network and the traditional core layer of the network and provided a product that extends services through software deeper into the network.
The MX continued to show strength in the year-over-year revenue growth.
And with the MX2020 and high-performance line cards now shipping I expect that that momentum will continue.
So I think the combination of these 3 core technologies really gives us the ability to set the agenda and go after a broader core market opportunity.
In the Edge I believe that we have a significantly differentiated Universal Edge platform.
We've got significant traction in the business edge services great traction in residential edge services and deployed mobile net software that's moving 4G packets in live networks today.
The diversity of applications in use cases has and continues to be one of the biggest selling points of the MX product family.
In fact we are now seeing more operators leveraging the MX Universal Edge to converge their Edge network by running multiple services simultaneously.
As an example we're working with a Tier 1 operator to converge residential services business services aggregation and video delivery services onto a single MX network.
The third area is in the access which is a really important area and an opportunity for growth for Juniper.
Our goal is quite simple: to extend the success that we've seen in the Universal Edge by pushing that concept into the access.
Leading operators who have built access networks optimized for 3G and voice have recognized that 4G essentially changes everything and a new approach to building their access network is fundamentally required.
Juniper has built a cost-effective access product that provides the capacity that's necessary to converge business residential and mobile services onto a common access infrastructure.
With the ACX family that we introduced last year we offered a system that provides leading price performance market-leading timing technology and also some really interesting environmental hardening characteristics.
In Q1 2013 we started shipping the ACX4000 which is optimized to enhance the mobile subscriber experience while significantly improving network monetization for service providers.
Another area that I want to touch on is the data center and this is really another very interesting area for us.
SDN is all about introducing agility into the network to keep pace with the rate of change in the compute world.
We recognized these trends early when we introduced fabric technologies like QFabric.
We are seeing that the adoption of -- for QFabric has started to go up because customers are recognizing the values and because we've introduced a new version of the QFabric catering smaller data centers and data center pods.
Gartner recently recognized our innovation by positioning Juniper as a visionary in their data center network infrastructure Magic Quadrant in February 2013.
We are doing well in the campus where we saw good year-over-year wireless LAN growth especially in Asia Pacific where we had our largest wireless LAN win ever.
We continue to build our Enterprise portfolio with the launch of the EX9200 Programmable Switch shipping now.
The new EX9200 is the industry's most programmable core switch which offers the flexibility required to support current and future protocols emerging applications and is optimized for both campus and data center environments.
We also announced the JunosV wireless LAN controller which is delivered as software within a virtual machine offering the same functionality as the appliance-based hardware wireless LAN controllers contributing to a unified redundant platform and location-agnostic wireless control plan for the end-to-end Enterprise.
And we announced Junos Space Network Director a network management application that provides unified manageability for the campus fixed  and wireless.
And we plan to extend that to data center later this year.
So with all that said I summarize as follows: we are not confused by the fact that innovation in this area depends on our ability to really move the needle in our silicon technology our systems and in our software.
All 3 are fundamental to managing the types of traffic capacity increases and service increases that our customers need.
I think we're well-positioned in the edge and core with our portfolio today.
I think that we have an ability to really grow and expand our Universal Edge leadership position into the access layer and finally I do believe that we've got some great building blocks both on the Platform side and the Software side to build a truly compelling virtualized data center solution and continue our progress in the campus.
Customer feedback around our solutions and especially recent innovations has been very positive.
Many of our new products are in active customer engagements across all geographies resulting in trial design wins and live deployment.
The innovations we are bringing to market are designed in collaboration with our customers and in response to their needs.
And as with any new architecture implementation is a multistage process.
Again we are pleased with the progress that we are seeing and how we're delivering against our innovation agenda.
At this point I'm going to turn over to Robyn.
Thank you very much.
Thank you Rami and good afternoon everyone.
Our first quarter results were in line with our expectations and reflected our continued focus on disciplined operational execution.
We saw broad strength in U.S.
Service Provider this quarter.
As anticipated our Enterprise business showed a typical first quarter decline with additional expected weakness in federal.
Our improved earnings reflect good revenue performance and cost reduction progress.
Looking at our demand metrics for the quarter book-to-bill was below 1 which is typical in the first quarter.
Product backlog and product deferred revenue both increased year-over-year and are at healthy levels.
And as a reminder deferred product revenue can fluctuate based on the recognition and timing of specific project deployment.
Total revenue was $1 059 000 000 down 7% sequentially and up 3% year-over-year.
Overall the sequential decline was in line with historical patterns.
Sequentially and year-over-year we saw strong performance in the Americas Service Provider sector.
In the first quarter both AT&amp;T and Verizon each accounted for 10% of Juniper's total revenue reflecting the momentum that we are seeing with U.S.
service providers.
These customers continue to be strategic to Juniper deploying our routing switching and security products across both the wired and wireless networks.
For the first quarter GAAP diluted earnings per share were $0.18.
This includes the $0.05 benefit related to a tax settlement $0.03 for the renewal of the R&amp;D tax credit and a $0.02 litigation charge as well as a $0.01 restructuring charge associated with our ongoing productivity and efficiency action.
Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share were $0.24 down $0.04 sequentially and up $0.08 year-over-year.
The year-over-year increase in EPS was due to a substantial improvement in operating margin fueled by a combination of modest revenue growth stronger gross margins and lower operating expenses.
Now let me provide some color on revenue by region market and business segments.
Americas revenue was down 2% sequentially and up 11% year-over-year.
We saw continued broad-based strength in the U.S.
carriers cable and content providers which increased 1% sequentially and 18% year-over-year.
Enterprise was down year-over-year by 2% with the majority as the result of U.S.
federal decline.
Excluding federal the rest of  Enterprise increased 5% compared to the third quarter of last year.
EMEA revenue was down 14% sequentially and 5% year-over-year.
The sequential decline was primarily driven by lower Enterprise revenue.
On a year-over-year basis the decline was a result of Eastern Europe.
Excluding this region the rest of EMEA increased.
We saw early indications of improving demand among some service providers across the region.
APAC revenue was down 10% sequentially and 9% year-over-year.
The year-over-year decline was primarily due to slower spending by certain large carriers in Japan and Australia partially offset by gains with regional service providers across the theater.
Looking more closely at the markets we address Service Provider revenue was $713 million down 4% sequentially.
Revenue was up 4% on a year-over-year basis by increased U.S.
Service Provider demand.
Enterprise revenue was $346 million down 14% sequentially and flat year-over-year with a 25% decline in U.S.
federal versus the first quarter of 2012.
Now let me review our revenue by segment.
Platform Systems Division revenue was $809 million down 7% sequentially and up 6% year-over-year.
Total router product revenue was down 4% sequentially to $514 million.
We saw a good sequential increase in core routing and edge routing continues to be strong.
Routing increased by 7% year-over-year and we saw continued momentum from MX and PTX.
As I noted last quarter we will continue to closely manage our supply chain in response to increasing Service Provider edge routing demand.
Total switching product revenue was $132 million down 10% sequentially and up 6% year-over-year.
The sequential change reflects good content Service Provider growth offset by a seasonal Enterprise decline.
The year-over-year increase is primarily due to growth in the QFabric product family.
SSD revenue in the first quarter was $250 million down 9% sequentially and 6% year-over-year.
Total security product revenue was $137 million down 19% both sequentially and year-over-year.
Of the $32 million year-over-year decline $20 million was due to fluctuations in the timing of service provider deployment.
Enterprise security decreased $12 million as the ScreenOS product declined more rapidly than the growth of SRX.
We remain focused on stabilizing our Enterprise security share in 2013.
We continue to see positive momentum with our new products and are on track toward achieving our goal of $150 million in revenues from new products in the fourth quarter.
In the first quarter revenue from these products were over $85 million.
In order of magnitude P4000 PTX and QFabric provided the bulk of the revenue.
Also we are seeing good customer interest in our ACX Universal backhaul products.
Moving on to gross margins and operating expenses.
Non-GAAP gross margin for the first quarter was 64.6% compared to 65.3% last quarter reflecting the lower volume.
The 2-percentage-point improvement year-over-year demonstrates the progress we've made on supply chain cost reduction as well as greater efficiency in our delivery of services and customer support.
Non-GAAP product gross margins were 65.5% and non-GAAP services gross margins were 62.1%.
Non-GAAP operating expenses decreased $19 million or 4% sequentially and 1% year-over-year to $518 million.
The OpEx declined as a result of the progress we've made in aligning our cost structure to our focused priority.
Looking at headcount we ended the quarter with 9 322 employees a sequential increase of 88 as we continue to balance our geographic personnel mix to optimize our cost structure.
Non-GAAP operating margin for the quarter was 15.7%.
This reflects a substantial year-over-year improvement in financial metrics including a 3% growth in revenue a 2% expansion of our total gross margin and a 1% decrease in operating expenses.
I'm pleased with our progress this quarter towards our long-term financial model.
Turning to an explanation of our taxes this quarter the non-GAAP tax rate was 19.8% down 7 points versus the prior quarter due primarily to the $15 million one-time benefit of the 2012 R&amp;D tax credit and the current effects of the 2013 R&amp;D tax credit.
The GAAP tax rate was a negative 18.3% for the quarter primarily as a result of a tax settlement with the IRS.
Looking at the balance sheet we ended the quarter with $2.7 billion of net cash and investments.
For the quarter we saw a net cash outflow from operations of $9 million due mainly to a sequential increase in the cash receivables lower net income annual payments for incentive compensation and the timing of payments to our supply chain.
In Q2 we expect to return to our historical pattern of strong positive cash flow.
DSO was at the high end of our historical range at 45 days in the quarter up from 35 days last quarter due primarily to shipment linearity.
Capital expenditures were $72 million down 22% from the fourth quarter as we near the completion of our Sunnyvale campus.
We repurchased 6.2 million shares for $130 million.
We have $438 million remaining on our current authorization and expect to calibrate our buybacks in future quarters with market conditions.
Now I will review our outlook.
As a reminder these metrics are provided on a non-GAAP basis except for revenue and share count.
Our outlook for the June quarter reflects our expectation of continued weakness in the Enterprise customer spending environment.
In Service Provider we expect to see a continuation of U.S.
Service Provider capital spending and some modest improvement in demand emerging in EMEA.
Our new products continue to build momentum especially in routing and we remain focused on disciplined operational execution while driving revenue growth.
For the second quarter we expect revenues to range from $1 070 000 000 to $1 100 000 000.
Gross margins are expected to be in the range of 64% to 65%.
Operating expenses are expected to be $510 million plus or minus $5 million and with this lower operating expense run rate we remain on track to deliver on our cost reduction goals for the year.
At the midpoint of guidance operating margins are expected to be 17.5%.
This is expected to result in non-GAAP diluted EPS of between $0.22 and $0.26 per share assuming a flat share count and a tax rate of 29% which is inclusive of the R&amp;D tax credit.
To summarize we expect the near-term market conditions to remain uncertain with modest growth in the markets we serve.
Given that environment we will continue to navigate with a disciplined approach executing with agility taking share in routing and switching and capitalizing on the market opportunities at stake.
We are focused on driving year-over-year operating margin expansion generating strong cash flows and prudently allocating capital.
And we will maintain our focus on delivering innovation and revenue growth over the long term.
I would like to thank our employees for their continued dedication and commitment to successfully executing our strategy.
And now let's open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Rod Hall of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just had a couple for you.
I wanted to talk a little bit -- get you to talk a little bit more about the underlying trends in routing.
I mean Rami it sounds like things are definitely starting to improve there.
I wonder if you could give us any kind of regional commentary in terms of what you're expecting in Europe.
And for instance do you expect Europe to actually grow significantly this year? Do you think it's just going to be more stable than it was last year? What kind of declines are you seeing there? And also on the T4000 if you could just clarify specifically what trends you're seeing there that give you guys more confidence.
I wasn't sure I came away with a real clear picture of what you're saying about the T4000.
And then also on routing if you could talk a little bit about PTX trials.
Can you give us any idea how many people are actually trialing the product right now and what the pipeline there looks like? And then the last thing is the EX9200 is not a QFabric switch.
And I just wondered Kevin if maybe you could talk about the strategy in switching.
Are you guys hedging your bets a little bit? Do you have now a two-pronged approach one that's QFabric-oriented but also one that's going to be more on QFabric SDN switching oriented? Rod it's Kathleen.
Do want to prioritize the top 2 of those? Research Division</strong> Okay.
Why don't you talk about T4000 ramp and what's going on there and then the switching strategy would be great.
Okay fantastic.
Okay let me -- so let me start.
First of all maybe just a couple of comments on some of the segments and how we characterize our routing business.
I'd say that we were pleased with the balanced approach and the -- actually the success that we saw from the standpoint of the very segments that brought our routing products.
So we saw good growth in cable operator space with traditional telcos and also in content providers.
And each of these very different segments bought for different reasons.
Clearly cable operators are dealing with massive growth of video traffic so this plays right to our strength from the standpoint of offering high-performance systems.
The telcos a lot of consolidation convergence again followed by the Universal Edge.
The supercore product plays to that sort of trend that's happening in the industry.
And last thing on the content providers also known as Web 2.0 it's about peering and data centers and data center interconnect again all sort of trends that benefit from the high performance that we offer in many of our products and solutions.
On the T4000 certainly what we saw as Robyn mentioned is that we saw sequential strength in our core overall.
I will say that part of that strength came from the T4000 itself in the Q1 timeframe.
I will say that still today operators are more focused on the drivers in the edge of the network.
So there is a greater demand if you will for keeping up with the capacity the services and the connectivity at the edge of the network today.
But sequentially we're pleased with the trends that we saw in the core.
You asked about the multichassis.
We did announce and started to offer new multichassis products for the T4000.
This is part of the natural evolution of the T series.
We offered a multichassis solution for the T640 we did it again for the T1600 and now we're doing it for the T4000.
It's not the global sort of customer base for the T series that are interested in this product but clearly this is a massively scalable solution that's very appealing to our largest customers that we're engaged with a number of Tier 1 operators around the world for that solution.
The last thing I'll just mention on the switching side there is no change in strategy here.
In fact we've always embarked on a two-pronged strategy for our switching solutions both in the data center and in the campus.
And the data center in particular we know that there are -- is a subset of customers that want to go down a tiered approach so we have a 2-tier solution that consists of the EX product line.
We've just strengthened the EX product line with the introduction of the EX9200 which preserves that architectural message of a 2-tier solution but brings in a level of programmability that I think is really going to help us especially in this day and age where protocols are evolving SDN is coming into play and our customers are trying to figure what that means for them from a solution standpoint.
The other dimension to our strategy remains very consistent which is that of the QFabric a single-tier architecture.
The QFabric as you know is our flagship data center product.
And we did see again a bit more momentum there because of the fact that we introduced the MicroFabric as well as some additional features that have been waiting -- that some of our customers have been waiting for.
The next question is from Kevin Dennean of Citi.
Research Division</strong> I guess Robyn quick one for you.
Previously you discussed about $150 million in cost savings split between cost of sales and OpEx.
How should we think about the pace of those cost reductions through the year? You're guiding I think at the midpoint $510 million for the next quarter which is a modest reduction year-over-year.
But if you could talk a little bit about the trajectory and what we should expect in second half OpEx.
Yes so in terms of the cost targets that we put out there $150 million between COGS and OpEx and about 75% 80% in the OpEx area.
We are making very good progress against that.
You saw the sequential decline from Q4 to Q1 where typically we see an increase in the Q1 spending given the factors that influence Q1 around salaries and that type of thing.
So we've actually -- we believe we've made good progress in terms of the cost reductions.
As I mentioned on the Q4 earning call many of the reduction in force or the workforce sort of reductions have actually happened in terms of the Q4 timeframe.
We are continuing to work on supply chain reductions as well as the overall infrastructure in the company facilities and that type of thing and that will be ongoing throughout Q2 and Q3 especially.
So my view is we're on track to meet the targets that we set out and I'm pleased with the progress that we've made.
Research Division</strong> So Kathleen just following up on that should we expect the bulk of the remaining cost savings particularly in OpEx to be concentrated in the fourth quarter? Or do you expect it to be somewhat even between the third and fourth quarters? Yes I would -- at this point I think that we'll see it evenly between third and fourth quarter in terms of the reduction.
The next question is from Mark McKechnie of Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> So my question is about the new products.
So they were about $85 million this quarter towards your goal of $150 million.
Maybe Robyn could you give us a sense for the margin profile of these new products relative to your corporate margins here? Yes thanks Mark.
In terms of the new products we're making good progress against the goal that we set for Q4 of 2013 of achieving a quarterly run rate of $150 million.
As I mentioned in my prepared remarks that's largely coming from the routing products and QFabric.
So that's actually the bulk of the over $85 million in the first quarter that we saw.
In terms of margin profile if you go back to my SAM presentation we actually put what was at or above the corporate average in terms of product gross margins.
And clearly the routing products are above the corporate average.
ACX the access product which is in the 5 products in terms of the new product target not a material revenue at this point but is in that number they were below the corporate average.
And switching and -- is sort of in the middle of that.
So our view is we're well on track for the 150 for the fourth quarter.
The next question is from Amitabh Passi of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Kevin I was wondering if you could shed some more light on your expectations for Asia Pac.
It looks like that region continues to struggle.
And then I had a follow-up for Robyn.
Just in terms of your buyback capacity if you could just remind us what's left in the program? Yes Amitabh thanks for the question.
On Asia Pacific when you look at the Service Provider business in Asia Pacific you almost have to look at it country by country.
It's not necessarily a homogenous region.
So as Robyn commented we'd saw some slowdowns in Japan and Australia.
I think India given the way that spectrum has been allocated and some of the unique challenges those service providers face I think that's a unique market and yet it's one that I think has opportunity but not one on the Service Provider side that we've seen significant uptick in.
We continue to compete well in certain opportunities in China and some of the partnership work that we've done there.
So it really does vary on the Service Provider side.
And then I think on the enterprise side globally certainly our largest verticals that we focus on in the Enterprise side would be financial services and federal specifically U.S.
federal.
But I think relative to some of the work that we see or happening in the Enterprise side I think Asia Pacific has had their share of challenges as well.
But overall I think you'd kind of have to look at it country by country.
And it's mixed and I think there's certain countries that I think we see opportunity or doing well and others that have been a little bit of a slowdown.
Robyn? Yes in terms of the buyback in -- we have $438 million remaining on the current authorization of the buyback.
The next question is from Brian Marshall of ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> This is Stephen Patel for Brian.
You've mentioned Service Provider starting to sound a little better especially in the U.S.
and even a little bit in EMEA as well.
Can you talk more about what those customers are telling you and what kind of visibility you have on their plans for the rest of the year? Yes I'll kick off the answer Stephen and then I'll let Rami add to it.
Yes I think we -- 2 quarters ago I think started indicating that we saw some positive trends in terms of an uptick in North America Service Provider demand and that was really driven by visibility to specific projects that we're involved in and that were unfolding.
And now we're starting to see those projects come to fruition and into implementation.
I think this is a quarter last couple of quarters where we also now started to see a few of those types of projects start to emerge in Europe with service providers in Europe.
In addition in the U.S.
we saw specific strength in the content Service Providers the Web 2.0 types of companies as well as cable.
And so that's a positive indicator.
So much of what we look for is when we win a specific project there's a certain amount of planning and configuration and architecture work that goes into it and then you start into the deployment phases.
And so when we just look at the portfolio of projects that are in progress that we've won and we're in progress and looked at sort of how the capital expenditures will then follow as they're aligned with those projects we feel like we've got some positive trends in the U.S.
and some good signals for some positive trends beginning to emerge in Europe.
And Rami I'll let you comment further.
Yes I think Kevin covered most of it.
I'll just add a couple of things.
In our discussions with customers around the world it's clear that traffic is continuing to grow.
And this forms of course the foundation of much of our business.
So it just comes down now to how much of a risk operators want to take or how hot they want to run their network before they want to invest.
Clearly as long as that traffic continues to increase which we see it increasing everywhere that investment cycle especially in cost centers like the core will come eventually.
It's just a matter of trying to predict when and it's very difficult to do so.
The other element of the discussion is around service generation which is all around things like the Universal Edge our SDN strategy our service chaining approach and so forth.
This discussion and these engagements are really happening everywhere.
But as Kevin mentioned the pickup that we're seeing the early signs we're seeing are most -- are mostly prominent in the U.S.
and certain parts of EMEA.
The next question is from Tal Liani of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I think you just reported about 20% mix to the CapEx plan for the quarter.
And on the other hand you have strength with AT&amp;T specifically you mentioned 10% customer.
Can you discuss the nature of Service Provider revenues in this quarter? Are these related to specific projects that there is concentration in 1 or 2 projects or is it more broad-based? It's just that your commentary specifically is so different than what they said on CapEx so I'm trying to understand the disconnect.
Yes Tal this is Kevin.
Thanks for the question.
I'm going to stay away from commenting on specifics about any one individual customer but I think that the broad answer is that clearly in our relationships with customers we work to diversify not only the set of projects that we're working on but the depth of work that we're doing in each of those projects.
And I think in some customer situations it's new design wins it's adding new projects and in other customer situations it's a balance of several projects.
I think generally in the U.S.
what we're seeing is a wider range of projects that we're getting involved in and that's strategically what we've been driving to do with the Universal Edge.
And I'll let Rami comment more.
But the Universal Edge and the MX product family has really become a real workhorse for us and for our customers.
And the fact that we're seeing the convergence of -- if it's just the consumer plus the business services and in a BNG type of implementation that's creating opportunity for our customers to consolidate networks and get the economic benefits of doing that and leverage their investment in the MX to do that.
So that's an example of one of the drivers that we've seen consistently around the world and customers in all 3 theaters.
But I think the general answer is that in the U.S.
it's probably a range of projects that we're involved in and certainly in a range of customers.
And I think as we commented in Europe what we're seeing now is the size of new projects being kicked off and launched in Europe which is a signal that they're now starting to ramp with some new work.
And Rami why don't I let you comment further on your perspective.
Yes sure.
I'll just  say that it's not unusual especially with our largest customers that we're engaging on a number of projects simultaneously.
And as Kevin mentioned even with a single platform like the MX you can be participating in projects to solve various different challenges that our customers have with that platform being used in different applications.
So that continues to happen.
Increasingly for example we're not just having a conversation about wireline but we're also talking about wireless projects and sort of solutions that our customers demand as they move their network from 2G 3G to 4G.
We mentioned for example in the last part of 2012 we introduced ACX.
This is all about at bookend to solutions that takes many of our existing products and pushes them into the wireless side of the sort of the solutions base for our customers we're having a lot of those discussions and they're happening in parallel to many other sort of discussions as well with a variety of different products.
Yes and Tal just a final point on the comments that Rami and I made we talked a lot about the Edge and what's happening on access.
But in many of these cases we're also doing work in the core.
I mean we saw a good uptake of PTX as well as sequential increase in T series.
So I mean that just sort of supports the fact I think and certainly in our North American service providers it's a range of projects it's a variety of projects that's contributing.
The next question is from George Notter of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask first for more commentary on your federal business.
Obviously it was weak this quarter.
But I guess I'm trying to understand exactly what's driving that.
Certainly I would imagine the sequester is a big piece of the story here.
But are you seeing smaller deal sizes? Are you seeing deal pushouts? Is the business just being canceled? I mean any kind of flavor you could give us there would be great.
And then also I'd love to understand what you got baked into expectations for the federal business for Q2.
I'll take the first part of your question George and I'll let Robyn comment on the Q2 guide.
I think the answers in federal is all of the above.
When they're trying to find ways to conserve capital and reduce investment or reduce cost they're going to look every place they can.
That's not to say there haven't been some orders and some projects that we've been engaged in but in that I think is there's some areas that spending has been curtailed others where projects have been cut back and yet some areas where projects are still going forward.
And so the -- our federal team has worked very hard to navigate sort of the challenges that we know our federal customers is trying to deal with to make sure that we're focused in the right area.
And I think Robyn commented on the decline that we saw year-on-year in our federal revenue.
Do you want to comment on the guidance Robyn? Yes.
So George in terms of the second quarter what I did say in terms of the guidance is we expect the same sort of trends in the second quarter.
So we're expecting Enterprise to be soft in the second quarter given the ongoing challenges in the budget environment with Federal.
The next question is from Ehud Gelblum of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> First Rami if you can just touch on some of the claims that Alcatel-Lucent has been making with the new 7950 they claim and going aggressive out there and taking share specifically from you guys.
So can you just give a brief overview of what you are or not seeing from ALU in the market on routing? Then on security it was down 20% last quarter.
I think you said that branch SRX orders were up 17% and high-end SRX is off 19%.
I didn't hear similar quarters -- at revenue actually you spoke to those I didn't hear similar numbers this quarter.
So Robyn if you can give some just color around what the 2 different types of SRX did in terms of revenue this quarter to get  to the down 20% give us some color there and what you're expecting in guidance that will be helpful.
On switching I was surprised it's down as much as it was down 10% 11% and orders you said last quarter were up 19% in switching.
So I just want to make sure I'm comparing apples-to-apples and it would be good to understand why the orders didn't necessarily translate into higher switching revenue and how QFabric plays into that because Kevin had sounded like QFabric got stronger again.
Can you give us color on QFabric and then with customers and how that played into that? It's a lot of questions.
Okay let's -- Rami I'll let you take the first one on ALU.
Okay.
Yes certainly.
So what I'd say this is that first I don't underestimate any of our competitors.
So a lot of respect for all of our competitors.
But that said building the massively scalable ultra-large core systems that our customers demand is not an easy thing to do and this is part of Juniper's strength and our DNA.
And as I mentioned in my opening remarks I think that we have a three-pronged innovation strategy that quite frankly whether you talk about Alcatel or any other competitor it's going to be difficult for them to match.
Everything from the investment protection story that we offer with the T Series to the PTX which is really a new breed of core transport supercore router that really nobody else has from the standpoint of efficiency power efficiency transport capability optical integration.
We just strengthened that with the announcement of the PTX3000.
And last but not least is the MX2020 which again we've just introduced along with denser line cards for the customer that wants to do more of a service-rich core.
So the combination of these 3 products gives me confidence that I think we're going to do very well against incumbent competitors as well as newer competitors that are trying to get into this space.
Okay.
Then on the question on security maybe Robyn why don't you start with the numbers and then I'll let Bob comment on sort of the focus that we have on the security business.
Yes so in terms of the security business I talked about year-over-year that there was a $32 million decline year-over-year and $20 million of it was in the SP space.
And that SP space is high-end SRX.
On the Enterprise side SRX did increase year-over-year.
But the NetScreen OS products are declining at a faster rate than the rate of increase in SRX.
And as you know Ehud that's what we've been focused on if you like turning the business around.
And so Bob do you want to comment on the Enterprise security? Sure.
Let me make a comment on both sectors if I would.
On the Service Provider as you mentioned we always see this revenue to be lumpy from quarter-to-quarter.
And right now we're also in the middle of a product transition as we're bringing out a next generation of service play that increases our per session capacity to 100 million sessions and provides our Service Provider customers with the continued leading performance that they've come to expect out of the SRX.
So that's one of the factors that we expect has had some implication of Service Provider space although the deals just come in at different quarters and that has been true for some time.
In the Enterprise -- in the data center space which really is for both the Service Provider and the Enterprise we have seen some increased interest certainly from our customers and we have some confidence that this will lead to long-term strength in the business as we've introduced new products in this space such as WebApp Secure and our recent introduction of Spotlight which fingerprints hackers using technology that is unavailable from anyone else in the industry.
And we've got some very very strong positive conversations with leading CSOs of major Enterprise and Service Provider customers over the past quarter in this space.
And we see the data center as an area where we are once again return to a very competitive position and in fact have some leading-edge technology.
The other area where we have been -- have had more challenge and this is consistent with the conversations we've been having for a year is in the campus and branch space which is really in the Enterprise.
And there are still some areas of product deficiency that we're working to correct.
We have introduced and have had -- and I've talked about in previous quarters Security Director in the marketplace.
We're seeing good acceptance of Security Director with customers such as Revlon Ecopetrol in Colombia a major Colombian oil and gas company as well as Meyer a Midwestern retailer are 3 examples of reference customers who have successfully adopted Security Director and then using it to manage their systems.
We have new buildings we need to do in that space still particularly in the reporting area.
But we are continuing to focus on all 3 areas of security and have a long-term confidence in the business.
So then that third question Ehud was in the area of switching.
And overall the switching business grew 6% year-on-year and certainly that even accounted for the declines that we saw in federal and other parts of Enterprise.
And I think much of that was driven by -- part of that was driven by QFabric that continues to grow.
And QFabric a little color behind that I think we -- that product is really oriented in many ways to large data center types of feeds.
We saw in this particular quarter deployment of one of our large customers in a large data center that contributed to that.
And in terms of the bridge between the orders in Q4 and do you want Robyn to make a comment? Yes.
So -- and so in Q4 Ehud we actually said that it was Service Provider demand that was in backlog if you like and we did see that coming through in the results this quarter.
We talked about switching being up in the Service Provider space in the quarter even though we did see declines in the Enterprise space in the quarter.
The last question comes from Subu Subrahmanyan of The Juda Group.
Research Division</strong> My question was to follow up on security.
I wanted to see if you could talk about if you feel like you're reaching a bottom in security given the new product transitions you're seeing as well as some of the new capabilities in the campus data center or if you expect to see that at some point just given the quarterly revenue run rate is that a kind of a multi-year low for the quarterly revenues? Yes so let me sort of kick off and just reiterate a way that I think it's important for you to think about this and then I'll let Bob comment.
What Bob talked about is 3 different areas of our security business.
The first one being Service Provider and we feel we're in a very good position with Service Providers.
The revenue is lumpy.
This is a quarter that it was low but we feel like with the R&amp;D we've done and the ability to take the SRX to handle 100 million concurrent sessions that value proposition for Service Providers as they're securing LTE traffic in the mobile Internet is and continues to be a strong value proposition.
So that part of our security business we feel very good about.
Yes revenue is lumpy but we've got new design wins.
Our largest customers are continuing to deploy.
We've got new innovation that addresses their need of scale.
Service Provider is in good shape in securing mobile Internet.
The second bucket is data center and I think -- as Bob highlighted I think the new innovation that we delivered at data center combined with our SRX and SSL VPN technology we feel good about our data center offerings.
We've got good customer interest.
We've got to work make sure we'd convert that to revenue so I think data center we feel good about.
And the area that we know we still have work to do is in that campus and branch area.
So you net that out I think -- and Robyn's comments that of the year-on-year decrease in security $20 million of that roughly was Service Provider and that's lumpy and we're confident that we've got the right set of solutions there.
So it was $10 million that was related to Enterprise.
And we think that we're -- we've got a good value proposition at data center and we've still got work to do in campus.
So that's kind of the framework to think about it.
So the question is we've shifted the bulk of our revenue now to the SRX and so the older ScreenOS products will continue to decline and it's our ability to then offset that with faster growth on the SRX and we feel stronger in Service Provider and data center than in campus and branch.
I think that's kind of the net of what Bob outlined.
Right.
That exactly right Kevin.
I think that we're in the products transition cycle and multi-quarter products transition cycle from the ScreenOS generation of products to the SRX.
The SRX brings us strength in Service Provider which we've never had before and that is an area where particularly as service providers do LTE buildouts we see the ability to profit from that.
Meanwhile we need to ensure that we double down in the Enterprise segment.
We feel like we've made good progress in the data center space with what we've introduced.
We still have work to do in campus and branch which is a large part of the Enterprise market but that's an area of continued focus on the team.
And this is a multi-quarter transition.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
That is all the time we have today.
We'd like to thank you again.
We recognize that today is a very busy day in terms of companies reporting and we appreciate your interest in Juniper Networks.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Juniper Networks Second Quarter 2013 Financial Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Ms.
Kathleen Nemeth Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you.
Ms.
Nemeth you may begin.
Thank you operator.
Good afternoon and thank you everyone for joining us today.
Here on the call are Kevin Johnson Chief Executive Officer; Robyn Denholm Chief Financial Officer; and Bob Muglia Executive Vice President Software Solutions Division.
In addition Rami Rahim Executive Vice President Platform Systems Division is on the call and will be available for Q&amp;A.
Please remember when listening to today's call that statements concerning Juniper's business outlook economic and market outlook strategy future financial operating results and overall future prospects are forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors including economic conditions generally or within the networking industry; changes in overall technology spending and spending by communication service providers and major customers; the network capacity requirements of service providers; the timing of orders and shipments; manufacturing and supply chain constraints; variation of the mix of products sold customer perception and acceptance of our products; rapid technological and market change; litigation and other factors listed in our most recent 10-Q filed with the SEC.
All statements made during this call are made only as of today.
Juniper undertakes no obligation to update the information in this conference call in the event facts or circumstances change after the date of this call.
In discussing the financial results Robyn will first present results on a GAAP basis and for purposes of today's discussion we will also review non-GAAP results.
For important commentary on why the management team considers non-GAAP information a useful view of the company's financial results please consult the press release furnished with our 8-K filed with the SEC today.
For the detailed reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP results please see the Investor Relations section of our website.
On today's call Robyn will also be providing forward-looking guidance.
As a reminder guidance is provided on a non-GAAP basis other than that with respect to revenue and share count.
All guidance is forward-looking and actual results may vary for the reasons I noted earlier.
GAAP guidance measures are not available on a forward-looking basis due to the high variability and low visibility with respect to certain charges which are excluded from non-GAAP guidance estimates.
Please note that today's call is scheduled to last for 1 hour.
[Operator Instructions] With that I'll turn the call over to Kevin.
Thanks Kathleen and welcome to all of you joining us on today's conference call.
Before we review our earnings I'd like to take a minute to comment on my decision which was announced today to retire as CEO of Juniper once a successor is named and an orderly transition is accomplished.
After 32 years in a line operating role with the past 5 years here at Juniper my family and I have decided it was time to take a break.
The company is healthy and growing we have a strong management team and world-class talent in the domain of networking.
The board has formed a search committee and we are working closely together to ensure we manage the process in a thoughtful way.
I'm committed to working closely with the board and my successor to ensure a smooth transition for all of our stakeholders.
Until then I continue to serve in my current capacity.
I will also remain focused on fulfilling my board commitments through this process.
It is an absolute privilege to serve as Juniper's CEO and I've enjoyed the past 5 years.
Together we have grown our business and strengthened our position in the networking industry as evidenced by this quarter's results.
The business is healthy and momentum is building.
So let's spend some time to talk about the quarterly results.
We delivered strong second quarter results reflecting good execution on our strategy as well as the strength in our product portfolio.
I'm pleased with the performance of this quarter in what remains a dynamic global economic environment.
To put these results into context you may recall that for the past 3 quarters we have been talking about demand improving in service provider.
We saw good strength in service provider this quarter both in terms of revenue and certainly in terms of the bookings environment.
I'll speak more about the service provider segments carrier cable and content in a moment.
In enterprise while there continues to be areas of weakness we are seeing some early signs of stabilization and improving demand in the U.S.
and Europe.
In service provider we focused on 3 customer segments: carrier cable and content also referred to as Web 2.0 providers.
Carrier includes both wireline and wireless.
In the second quarter we experienced good overall demand in wireline while demand also was strong in wireless in the Americas.
In EMEA we are seeing emerging signs of growth in wireless we performed well in cable and we are seeing great traction with major cable providers.
In content our good traction in core routing and switching are translating into improved performance as CapEx strengthens in this segment.
For the routing market we continue to see very strong demand in the Edge.
Core networks seem to be running hotter which is a positive indicator as we expect investment in core routing begin to pick up in the coming quarters.
Overall the trend we identified 3 quarters ago of a routing CapEx cycle appears to be picking up.
On the enterprise side our switching and data center business performed well in the second quarter.
Highlights included strong demand from our newly introduced EX9200 as well as our QFabric family of products which had a record quarter.
Customer response to the EX9200 has been good as it satisfies our customers need for programmability in core switches that power both campus and data centers.
This also aligns with our SDN strategy.
In security we're seeing positive activity in bookings.
Bob will provide more detail on our strategy and progress in a few minutes.
As a company we continue to drive innovation and differentiation through our systems and our software.
We're focused on delivering world-class scale performance and reliability in our systems which is the heritage of our company.
At the same time we're complementing the value delivered through our systems with a software strategy that enables our customers to be more agile.
This is delivered with our network function virtualization capability in a way that helps customers reduce cycle times and be more efficient and we expect to enhance this capability with future product introductions that are part of our SDN strategy.
We believe the combination of scale and performance in our systems plus the agility and efficiency in our software provides unique value that is resonating with our customers.
The second quarter was a strong one for revenue bookings and backlog.
In addition we remain focused on prudent cost management and effective capital allocation which Robyn will discuss later on the call.
To sum up our 2013 results show that we are successfully executing on the 5 operating principles we established at the beginning of the year.
We expect macroeconomic environment to remain uncertain we expect modest growth in the markets we serve take share in routing and switching and stabilize share in enterprise security expand 2013 operating margins over 2012 and continue to generate solid cash flows and prudently allocate capital.
The strength that we're seeing in the service provider market and the stabilization we're seeing in the enterprise market reinforce our confidence that we are in the right markets with a great product portfolio.
We continue to feel very good about the health of the business and we will continue to stay focused on executing with agility and delivering value for all our stakeholders.
Now I'll turn it over to Bob to discuss the latest developments in security and SDN.
Bob? Thanks Kevin.
Today I'd like to update you on our progress in the security business as well as with SDN and our overall software strategy.
As we've previously outlined for security we expect our recovery to occur over multiple quarters.
With that background Q2 is a tough quarter for our security business with revenue of $126 million a decline of 20% year-over-year and 8% quarter-over-quarter.
However the actions we are taking are showing some positive signs and results.
Our security bookings grew 6% over Q1 2013 and we exited Q2 with a strong backlog in our security business.
We are also seeing encouraging growth in our security sales pipeline.
Providing color on this as previously outlined you can divide the network security business into 3 distinct customer value propositions: securing service provider customers securing corporate end users within the campus and branch and securing the data center from Internet hackers.
The primary usage of network security for service provider customers is enabling high-scale firewalls for mobile users.
Juniper has benefited from the growth of LTE networks as the scalability and reliability of our SRX product is ideally suited to this application.
During 2013 we have seen this business slow in North America as the large service providers focused their capital spend on other areas including Edge routing.
Moving forward we expect to see growth opportunities in EMEA South America and to a lesser extent in Asia as these carriers roll out LTE.
We have a leadership position in service provider security and we intend to maintain that as more carriers around the world modernize their mobile networks with high-capacity LTE service.
For Campus and Branch we continue to see the impact of the product transition from our older ScreenOS product line to the current SRX products.
Our ScreenOS products continued to decline but we have seen good year-over-year growth in our branch SRX products.
That said this is the area where our products fell behind in the transition from ScreenOS to the SRX and we expect recovery in Campus and Branch security will occur over multiple quarters.
While we still have work to do this transition is well underway.
In Q2 ScreenOS products accounted for approximately 20% of overall security revenue.
For the data center in Q2 we shipped the highly innovative Spotlight service that works in conjunction with Junos WebApp Secure.
Spotlight is the only cloud platform in the world that shares fingerprints of individual attackers' devices.
This intelligent service protects our customers by blocking attackers before they have a chance to do damage.
The combination of Web AppSecure and Spotlight provide a foundation for differentiation of Juniper's overall data center security products.
This strategy is working for us generating considerable interest from major enterprise customers including the Chicago Mercantile Exchange and Interactive Data who have chosen Juniper to secure their data center environments.
In Q2 we also shipped Junos DDoS Secure a unique application-centric service that provides protection against Distributed Denial of Service attacks.
DDoS Secure was chosen by First American Bank to secure and protect their financial systems and this win further strengthens Juniper's relationship with this important customer.
We are seeing strong interest in using our security products to protect enterprise data center.
And to further capitalize on this in Q2 we took steps to restructure and grow our enterprise security sales force.
We expect those steps together with the introduction of new and improved products to bring stability to our security business in the second half of 2013 and enable a return to growth in 2014.
Switching to SDN and our broader software business we have established a strong industry thought leadership position with our SDN strategy and products.
That strategy is resonating with customers industry analysts and the press as demonstrated by the positive feedback and reviews we perceived as well as our overall share of voice within the press which far outstrips what might be expected from a company of Juniper's size.
In May we announced that we had entered beta with our Contrail SDN controller and we pulled in the ship date of this product from 2014 to second half 2013.
Pulling in ship date of a new product is an unusual event in this industry and the progress we've since made with our beta customers further increases our confidence that we will meet our commitment.
In terms of those beta customers they are relatively evenly divided between enterprise and service providers and include a strong representation of customers in all 3 global geographies.
We see several value propositions emerging for SDN across both the enterprise and service providers.
Within the data center as customers implement private and public cloud infrastructures they must virtualize their network to enable elastic scaling of resources.
Enterprises want to build hybrid clouds that connect their private cloud to commercially providing public clouds for disaster recovery and on-demand availability of resources.
Service providers seek to improve service creation agility within their Edge network by implementing network function virtualization.
All of these capabilities are enabled by our Contrail controller and with the beta trials that are underway we have established strong mindshare and experience in this important emerging area.
Interestingly many of these trials bring other Juniper services such as Firefly our virtual firewall.
While we don't expect to see material SDN revenue in 2013 we are well positioned to benefit from the growth in this area in 2014 and beyond.
For our broader software business we achieved record Q2 bookings which is reflected in backlog and this will be recognized over multiple quarters.
We expect to see the trend of ratable revenue recognition continue as we move our software licensing to Juniper Software Advantage; the networking industry's only comprehensive software licensing model.
Earlier this month we moved the majority of our MX application software to Juniper Software Advantage and we anticipate transitioning more of our security products in Q4 of this year.
All of these steps rebuilding our security business establishing leadership in SDN strategy and products and moving to our new Juniper Software Advantage licensing model are meant to build a foundation for the future.
It will take time but we are on our way.
Now let me pass this on to Robyn.
Thank you Bob and good afternoon everyone.
I'm pleased to report that our second quarter results reflect strong revenue and even stronger earnings growth.
Revenue exceeded our expectations due to 2 main factors that were roughly of equal size.
The first being increased service provider spending momentum and improved enterprise demand and the second factor was the earlier-than-anticipated recognition of some U.S.
federal revenue.
Operating income and the EPS both improved significantly reflecting the leverage in our financial model.
Looking at our demand metrics we had a good bookings quarter with strength across our customer base resulting in book-to-bill greater than 1.
Product backlog which you've already seen at healthy levels increased both sequentially and year-over-year.
Product deferred revenue was down modestly quarter-over-quarter.
Total revenue was $1 151 000 000 up 9% sequentially and 7% year-over-year.
The sequential growth was driven largely by enterprise whilst the year-over-year growth was balanced between service provider and enterprise.
No single customer accounted for more than 10% of total revenue in the quarter.
For the second quarter GAAP diluted earnings per share were $0.19.
Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share were a strong $0.29 up $0.05 sequentially and $0.10 year-over-year.
Now let me provide some color on revenue by region market and business segment.
Americas revenue was up 14% sequentially and 15% year-over-year.
Enterprise had a very good quarter driven by federal and financial services that resulted in double-digit sequential and year-over-year growth.
Federal had a good quarter even without the benefit of the deferred revenue recognition.
The year-over-year strength in the Americas was due to another quarter of double-digit service provider growth.
This growth reflects the improving broad-based demand across cable content and carriers.
EMEA revenue was up 4% sequentially and 1% year-over-year driven by enterprise strength while service provider's revenue was flat sequentially.
We did see improved demand in Northern Europe and in Germany.
APAC revenue was down 1% sequentially and 7% year-over-year.
We saw soft demand in enterprise across the region and Japan continues to be weak.
We did see sequential growth in service provider primarily in China Taiwan and South Korea.
Looking more closely at the markets we address service provider revenue was $726 million up 2% sequentially and 7% year-over-year.
USSP was strong especially in cable content and pockets of strength in EMEA and APAC.
Enterprise revenue was $425 million up 23% sequentially and 8% year-over-year.
Sequential growth was driven by federal and financial services in the U.S.
and broad-based growth in EMEA.
Now let me review our revenue by segment.
Platform Systems Division revenue was $916 million up 13% both sequentially and year-over-year.
Total router product revenue of $578 million was up 12% sequentially and 14% year-over-year.
The MX product line had another record revenue quarter growing 19% sequentially and 43% year-over-year.
This reflects continued strong customer acceptance of our Universal Edge offering.
In addition we recognized our first revenue on the recently released MX2020.
Total switching product revenue was a record $160 million up 22% sequentially and 15% year-over-year.
In the data center the newly released EX9200 is off to a good start and QFabric continues to generate momentum.
SSD revenue of $235 million was down 6% sequentially and 11% year-over-year.
Total security product revenue was $126 million down 8% sequentially and 20% year-over-year.
This area of our business remains challenged.
However as Bob mentioned we are seeing good customer activity and response to our new initiative with some early signs of the business turning around.
In the second quarter both orders and revenue from new products increased sequentially and we feel good about our ability to achieve our yearend quarterly run rate of $150 million.
Moving on to gross margin and operating expenses non-GAAP gross margins for the quarter were 63.7% compared to 64.6% last quarter and 63.4% a year ago.
Non-GAAP product gross margins were 63.8% and non-GAAP services gross margins were 63.3%.
Gross margins for the quarter would have been roughly flat sequentially except for the negative impact of the Federal-deferred revenue recognition.
We are pleased with the progress that we have made in our supply chain and our services cost reduction.
Non-GAAP operating expenses decreased $3 million sequentially and $5 million year-over-year to $515 million.
OpEx was at the high end of our guidance reflecting good progress in cost reduction partially offset by higher variable compensation and legal expenses.
OpEx as a percentage of revenue was 44.8% versus 48.9% last quarter and 48.4% in Q2 of last year.
Looking at our headcount we ended the quarter with 9 513 employees a sequential increase of 191 primarily in lower cost ranges.
Non-GAAP operating margin for the quarter was 18.9% compared to 15.7% last quarter and 16% last year.
Operating income increased 31% sequentially and 35% year-over-year.
This reflects our strong focus on achieving our long-term model by driving operating leverage with good top line growth and OpEx management.
The non-GAAP tax rate was 27.4% compared to 19.8% last quarter and 30.7% a year ago.
As a reminder last quarter the tax rate reflected a onetime benefit of the 2012 R&amp;D tax credit.
Looking at the balance sheet we ended the quarter with $2.8 billion of net cash and investments.
For the quarter we generated strong operating cash flow of $284 million in line with our historical pattern.
DSO was 40 days in the quarter down from 45 days last quarter due primarily to better order and shipment linearity.
Capital expenditures were $71 million down 1% sequentially while depreciation and amortization was $42 million.
We have now largely completed the construction of our Sunnyvale campus and also consolidated some of our labs and office space in our existing Blade facility.
We repurchased 6.4 million shares for $106 million.
We have $333 million remaining on our current authorization.
As announced the board has approved a new incremental authorization of $1 billion and we expect to continue calibrating our buyback in future quarters with market conditions.
Now I will review our outlook.
As a reminder these metrics are provided on a non-GAAP basis except for revenue and share count.
Our outlook for the September quarter reflects our expectations of continued good service provider demand in the U.S.
and modest improvement in EMEA.
We expect routing and switching to remain strong while the security business begins to stabilize.
For the third quarter we expect revenue to range from $1 140 000 000 to $1 180 000 000.
Gross margins are expected to be in the range of 64.5% plus or minus 0.5%.
Operating expenses are expected to be $525 million plus or minus $5 million.
As we have demonstrated we are focused on driving leverage in our financial model and continue to bring our cost structure in line with our long-term operating model.
As an update to our cost reduction activity we've experienced high labor claims all year and given the improved demand environment variable expenses will be higher than we anticipated for the year.
We also are making some incremental investments to maximize our top line growth.
With that in mind we now see a net year-over-year OpEx reduction in 2013 of approximately $50 million.
We are well ahead of our $50 million cost reduction goal.
At the midpoint of guidance operating margins are expected to be roughly 19.5%.
This is expected to result in non-GAAP diluted EPS of between $0.29 and $0.32 per share assuming a flat share count and a tax rate of 28%.
To summarize we expect the demand environment to continue to improve.
We are confident of our product portfolio in routing and switching and improvements in security.
We are focused on executing to drive revenue growth maintain healthy gross margins and manage OpEx to achieve our long-term model.
I would like to thank our employees for their continued dedication and commitment to successfully executing our strategy.
Now let's open the floor to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Ehud Gelblum of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I've got a bunch of questions for you so hope you're ready.
Question one is on the switching business.
That was the strongest I think we've ever seen at $160 million.
Can you give us a breakout on -- you said QFabric was strong.
How strong was QFabric? Is it still in the order of small numbers or substantial? Kind of just give us a sense as to how big it is.
And when you talk about QFabric is it at the top-of-rack switches or are people buying the directors? And clearly I assume it's more than minis than the original QFabric.
And if you can give us a sense also as to how much of your strength in switching was from data center versus campus LAN anything you can tell us about WiFi just breaking out switching.
And then on security when you look at your 2 businesses in security the carrier side and the enterprise side Bob mentioned that the carrier SRX was not doing as well this quarter because route -- carriers are focusing more on routing.
Does that mean that the 2 are kind of out of sync with each other and you can never get the 2 on the same page? And then finally on enterprise I'll let someone else take care of that.
Ehud what was your last question on -- was it on enterprise security? Research Division</strong> It would have just been how -- is it possible to separate that from the carrier security side and sort of maximize that for cash as opposed to -- run it for cash as opposed to for growth what you're doing in carrier? Okay got it.
Thanks for your questions.
Let me sort of kick off on the first one on the switching business.
I think we had a very strong quarter on switching and I think a part of that was the introduction of the EX9200 which replaced our EX8200 switch.
And the difference in the EX9200 is the programmability that that switch enables.
And it is a great switch both for data centers and we see some customers even using it for campus because of the programmability.
And so I think the product transition from the 8200 to the 9200 was one contributor to the strong performance in switching.
And as we noted QFabric had a record quarter.
And we talk about QFabric as the QFabric family of products which does include the top-of-rack switches it includes the smaller version of the Interconnect as well as the larger version of the Interconnect.
And this is a quarter that we had -- we certainly had continued sales and good performance of top-of-rack but we also have very good performance of the Interconnects both the lower end and the higher end.
And Rami -- we don't break out the specific numbers Ehud.
But Rami do you want to comment more on the switching part of the business? Yes I'd be happy to.
On the question of the particular segments or subsegments of switching I can tell you for example with the EX9200 the early traction that we saw was a very nicely balanced between campus and data center.
And it actually fits really nicely with the strategy that we've been executing towards.
In fact what we found is that many of our customers deploy our switches in scenarios where it's a common core that's used for both the data center and the campus.
The software that we're introducing for our switches in the form of network director as part of our broader SDN strategy is very much about converging the management of the switching environment across these multiple areas as well.
So we were pleased with the performance we've seen certainly this quarter.
Okay and thanks for your question.
I mean with regards to the relationship within the SP environment between routing and security as Kevin has described in a number of times we see different trends within service providers of areas of capital spending and those change over a period of time.
And in the case of security the area that is most strongly influenced is it follows the RAN the build-out of the RAN of wireless carriers as they increase the availability of spec -- and they use their spectrum and increase the ability to move on to newer networks such as LTE that is where we see security being most closely correlated to.
And what we've seen now is in North America some of the major carriers have largely gone through their LTE build-outs.
And so we see opportunities in other geographies around the world.
Now the interesting thing here is just that as the capacity increases of the radio network and that is being secured obviously there's a need for Edge services and that's a routing thing.
And as we've discussed over time that makes the cores run hotter and so there's opportunities there.
So the correlation is really based on how the carriers are doing their capital allocation.
I'll just comment on the last part of your question which was if we just focus on enterprise security and didn't do carrier would that be a way to run the business for cash I think was the term used in your question Ehud.
And the fact is the high-end SRX is the same high-end SRX that we used to secure these LTE networks as we used to secure large data centers.
So there may be some slight differences in the features software features that go -- are used in the high-end SRX but fundamentally the incremental R&amp;D required to be in security for the LTE mobile networks is not significant -- significantly different or more from what you would do in data center.
So we think it's the best return on investment to invest in that R&amp;D and then be able to monetize that same product in both service provider and enterprise.
The next question comes from Rod Hall of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I just had a couple of questions for you.
First of all I wonder -- just kind of housekeeping point Robyn.
Could you give us any quantification on that deferred revenue from federal and let us know if there is anything in guidance for further unwind the deferred revenue there? And then secondly I just wondered on the security business.
I mean it feels like we still saw sequential decline in security revenues but it feels like you've got a grip on that market now a little bit better.
I wonder could you give us some ideas do you expect that market revenues or that your revenues from security to be flat quarter-on-quarter in Q3 or maybe even up a little bit? Are we still expecting a little bit of decline there? And then lastly you guys seem more and more optimistic about the routing cycle.
I wonder if there's any more color you can give that on that.
Are you seeing particular regional movement? Is it mostly in North America do you see routing traction in Europe? Could you just give us some more on the routing cycle that you see come in the second part of the year? Okay.
Thank you Rod.
In terms of the deferred revenue the way I characterize that the upside in the quarter for Q2 was half related to earlier-than-anticipated deferred revenue recognition and half from stronger demand from enterprise and service providers.
So that's how I characterize it.
As you can see from the balance sheet the deferred revenue is only modestly down quarter-over-quarter and so you can see that we're adding to the deferred revenue pool as well as recognizing deferred revenue in the quarter.
And the deferred revenue balances are healthy the backlog is healthy and the bookings were healthy in the quarter.
So our view is that in terms of the underlying strength of the business even if you take out the deferred revenue recognition item it was healthy.
And so on the security side I'll let Bob answer that question.
Yes Rod.
In terms of security and the expectations for the rest of the year as we said we expect the security business to stabilize in the second half of this year with a return to growth next year.
In terms of whether it will be flat or up or what over the next quarter the variability here is perhaps associated with the split between the decline that we've had in the enterprise and the service provider.
Q2 was just like Q1 in the sense that the decline was structured as 2/3 of service provider and 1/3 enterprise.
And we have seen some good traction on the enterprise side.
In the service provider which just the very nature of that business is fairly lumpy.
So it's difficult for me to predict on a quarter-to-quarter basis exactly what we'll see but overall we do expect stability going forward for the rest of this year.
And then routing Rami would you like to comment? Yes I'd be happy to.
So just to provide a little bit of color certainly we've been saying for the last quarter or 2 that the majority of the drivers on routing have been in the Edge.
That continues to remain true throughout Q2.
And you have to understand that the drivers for investment in the Edge are just more diversified than that in the core.
So people invest in the Edge provide new services to keep up with capacity to provide connectivity to various different types of customers.
So we had a very good Q2 in terms of the Edge routing.
From a geo standpoint North America is definitely sort of a strong area for us but we are continuing to see good signs in parts of Europe both from a standpoint of just the market in general but also in terms of the design wins that we have gotten over the last several quarter that we are now executing towards delivering for our customers.
And then just from a segment standpoint we saw a good balance of investment in routing both in our cable operators our content providers our Web 2.0 and actually also our telco -- traditional telco.
So cable operators are dealing with an influx of video traffic that they need to support telcos with the sort of trends of convergence and delivering on new services and content providers for data center interconnect for peering and that sort of activity.
So really nice balance of business across a large segment of our customers.
The next question is from Tal Liani of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> This is Eric Ghernati for Tal.
Just a quick question on the enterprise again.
I guess the strength came from federal financials with federal being due to deferred revenue recognition.
These 2 verticals if I recall were excessively weak last quarter.
I guess how should we think about the sustainability in the second half? Will these 2 verticals stay strong or will they -- other verticals or geos will strengthen? And then just if I recall correctly AT&amp;T and Verizon were 10% customers.
You said that you had no 10% customers.
I assume that affected some degree core routing business but you voiced your confidence that core routers would rebound in the second half.
Are you seeing that in your bookings? What are your customers showing you specifically the U.S.
large telcos? Thanks Tal.
So the first question you had was on enterprise.
And we posted an 8% growth in enterprise.
Certainly as Robyn mentioned I think our product deferred revenue was down a net of $9 million sequentially.
So certainly there was some benefit to the U.S.
enterprise business from the recognition of that deferred revenue in federal.
But even net of that deferred revenue that was recognized in federal we still saw improving -- improvements in the performance of federal.
And so things seem to be stabilizing a bit more and actually getting on more of an approved footing in federal.
And we expect that to continue into the second half.
EMEA posted a good growth rate in enterprise as well and the place that I think we're underperforming a bit is in Asia.
And I think we've certainly seen some challenges in certain countries like China and certainly some others but I think we have opportunity to improve our execution in Asia a bit.
But I think we saw a good strong enterprise performance in the Americas and EMEA.
And certainly I think the fact that switching was up 15% was a part of contributing to that enterprise performance.
On the second question related to core routing I commented that part of the analysis we do is we look at the total addressable market spend against core and Edge relative to the traffic growth that we're seeing on the networks.
And from that we can start to deduce how much of that was replacement equipment versus new capacity.
And what we're seeing now on the Edge is it's now building out new capacity to handle what was networks that were running hotter and hotter.
And we think that that trend is going to continue for several quarters.
We have seen the core of the network in our analysis has been running hotter and hotter and we're just now starting to see the signs that investment will in addition to being on the Edge will start to kick in for the core.
And we expect to see that start to unfold later this year.
Rami I'll let you comment further on the core routing side.
Sure the drivers for core are really all around capacity.
So customers will tend to defer that for us long as they can for they absolutely need to investment and we've certainly seen some of that.
I'll just add that in addition to what Kevin said I'll just add that I think that the strategy that we have been outlining which is around the diversity of our products in addressing different types of core challenges whether it be the T Series as a very seamless upgrade path to an existing Q Series network or the MX especially now with the MX2020 and a denser line card or the PTX where we've just introduced the PTX3000 -- or we've announced the PTX3000 to be shipped in the second half of the year is resonating with our customers.
And as Kevin said we are seeing early traction that this strategy is right in terms of what our customers require.
The next question is from Bill Choi of Janney Montgomery Scott.
Research Division</strong> First on the clarification part here.
Did I understand here after the deferred rev recognition on fed you're still looking for a sequential improvement into the second half meaning that you will benefit from the potential fed budget flush specifically in the September quarter? And then secondly I want to understand this reinvestment in OpEx for growth opportunity to I guess just 6 months ago you guys were trying to cut cost; now you see some opportunities for additional growth.
And I just want to understand where that's coming from.
I mean part of this improving demand certainly is that you already had the footprint already had the relationships of those customers come back to spend.
Those don't require incremental OpEx investment to capitalize.
Is there a lot more opportunities that you're seeing in this current environment for new footprint growth and new projects that require investments? I'm sorry and then how long will it take to get before you get some of the revenue momentum from the increment investment? Thanks Bill.
I think that last bit didn't make the buzzer but anyway in terms of the first part of the question let me just clarify.
What Kevin was talking about was in the second quarter absent the federal revenue recognition items that we talked about if you took that out of the numbers we would have still been up in federal in the second quarter.
And we are expecting a continuation of that trend.
In other words sequential increase in terms of what we saw between Q1 and Q2 on the base demand as continuing for the second half.
So and I might add that we also saw good financial services improvements in the second quarter as well.
And Kevin also mentioned EMEA enterprise was stronger in the second quarter.
So I think that in terms of that underlying business trend we see enterprise demand strengthening.
In terms of the investments what I talked about in terms of OpEx so for the full year we will be down year-over-year $50 million in terms of operating expenses 2013 over 2012.
We have been very focused on continuing to drive cost reductions across the board and we are still driving those.
Having said that I have reduced the total year-over-year decline from roughly $100 million to $50 million and there are 2 major factors in that.
The first is the continuation of the legal and variable expense increases that we've seen versus our expectations at the beginning of the year.
And then the second is some modest investments that we are making in the second half to capture both the near-term and the longer-term revenue opportunities that we see.
And so we think that's a very prudent thing to do from a company perspective to continue that revenue momentum as we go forward.
Having said that our OpEx as a percentage of revenue has come down dramatically from last year and we're continuing to focus on that in line with our long-term model that we put out there this time last year.
And I'll remind you that our long-term model for OpEx as a percentage of revenue is somewhere between 39% and 42% of revenue.
We still have some ways to go to get to 42% being the upper end of that range but we do expect to exit this year close to that upper end of the OpEx as a percentage of revenue range.
The next question is from Simona Jankowski of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So your service provider business in aggregate was up 2% sequentially which was about $13 million.
And I think you commented that MX Edge routing was up 19% sequentially which is probably more than $50 million.
So it seems like some of the other categories within service provider were down sequentially and I just wanted to see if you can provide some detail of how that will split between core routing and SRX within the service provider vertical and specifically if core routing declined.
And since I know you've commented on networks getting hotter in the core for the last 3 quarters just wanted to get some specificity there on either bookings or backlog or any kind of customer activity that would suggest that that is likely to improve.
So I'll start the answer to that question Simona and then I'll hand it over to Rami to talk about some of the trends.
So in terms of our SP business it was up 2% sequentially nicely up year-over-year.
In terms of the trends there yes MX was up.
As you know we have some older Edge router products that have been declining and they continued to decline in the second quarter.
The core revenue was down sequentially but the bookings was strong in terms of core.
And as Bob mentioned in the security area that was -- the SRX was also down sequentially in terms of the security product into SP.
And so in terms of the overall trends Rami can focus on that as well.
Yes not much more to add.
I'll just say that on the Edge certainly the MX had been very strong and the -- a component of the universal Edge strategy that we are executing towards actually involve that other Edge product -- or some of the older products that we were working on in the past will decline.
So that's completely anticipated.
As far as Edge versus core I think we've outlined what we're seeing in terms of the drivers in the industry and these are things that play out over multiple quarters.
I don't anticipate any major changes any time soon.
That said we did say that we're starting to see early signs that the core investment cycle might be starting and bookings is one metric that we're using as a reflection of that.
Research Division</strong> And Rami just as a follow-up to that are there opportunities when you think you might be selling a PTX or an MX or MX2020 in place of what would have been a T4000 opportunity? And if that's the case is that $0.50 or $0.80 on the dollar? And then along the same vein with the new routers and core from Cisco and Alcatel what is your early take on how that is impacting the marketplace either from a market share or a pricing perspective? Yes to your first question I mean the way I look at this is we have a tool bag full of tools that are disposable that we can leverage when we have the conversation and we go after an opportunity with our customers.
So any core opportunity starts with a conversation between ourselves and our customers trying to understand their business challenges what they're trying to achieve.
And then we can go based on that understanding reach into our bag to determine whether we're going to be satisfying their requirements with the T Series or an MX or a PTX.
And that is a very positive thing because quite frankly our competitors don't necessarily have all of those options available for them.
So that diversity of offering that we have the strategy that we're executing towards I think is really a powerful one.
The second question that you asked is around...
Research Division</strong> Alcatel and Cisco.
Yes competitive situation.
I'll say sort of what I said in the last earnings call which is that I'm not going to underestimate any of my competitors Cisco or Alcatel.
Certainly Alcatel is trying to get into the core space.
But that said I have great confidence in the strategy that we're executing towards.
I think the success that we've seen with the early products for example with the PTX as a very dense next-generation transport device that really our competitors do not have.
The new multi-chassis offering that we just introduced for the T Series -- T4000 I should say the early traction there again give me very good confidence.
So we won't underestimate our competitors but I think that the strategy that we're executing towards is a winning one.
The next question is from Kevin Dennean of Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just going back to expectations for core routing it's been asked a few different ways you're obviously sounding more confident on the outlook.
Rami or Kevin I'm just wondering if you could talk about the expected duration of the core routing cycle.
Is there any reason to believe that this is more than just a couple of quarter pickup or is this going to be something more durable along the lines of a multi-year cycle? Yes I guess I'll start and then I'll let Rami complement with additional comments.
In our analysis it's been several quarters that core and Edge routing had been running hotter and that's partly why the addressable market for routing declined 3 percentage points in 2012.
It wasn't just a 1 quarter networks were running hotter it was several quarters.
And that really started mid-2011.
So there was probably a 6-quarter period where in our observation core and Edge networks were running hotter.
We started to see the pickup on Edge network investment in Q3 of last year.
We saw the signs of it and we talked about that and that led to the results that we delivered in Q4 and what we're seeing today.
And we think that as Rami pointed out the Edge investments go beyond just incremental capacity.
It goes to enable new services and other things that our customers are trying to do.
And so we believe that Edge cycle is going to continue for quite some time.
And what we're now seeing is early signs that the core investment cycle is going to pick up and that's got to pick up just to address capacity issues.
As you build out more Edge it's following more traffic in the core.
And certainly things where a customer will build a metro packet core basically a core within a metropolitan area to keep traffic within that area we see projects in those areas that will in some ways they'd put in a core router in that metro -- in that metropolitan area.
So the net is I think the core -- the signs we're seeing will lead to increased CapEx on the core.
You cannot exactly predict when it's going to occur but the early signs based on what we're seeing in bookings in our discussions with customers on projects tell us that it's coming soon.
And I would suspect it too will be multi-quarter multi-year process as they build out for what would be 1.5 years to 2 years of running those networks hotter.
It's going to take some capacity to catch up with it.
Rami I don't know if you have anything else to add or...
Not much more.
It's very difficult to predict the timing and the duration of the timing.
I think the thing that's in our control is to just make sure that we are best equipped to capture the opportunity when it comes about.
That's exactly what I'm focused on that's what my team is focused on.
And I think things that we are going to be prepared whether it's a solution to converge packet off because I think we have a fantastic one or a migration to it in a T Series capacity I think we've got a great story there as well.
So I think that's the thing that we're focused on right now.
Research Division</strong> But Rami just a follow-up is there anything that you see structurally different in network architectures that would point towards a shorter cycle in core routing versus what we've seen historically? One can always have an architectural discussion around capacity in the metro versus capacity in the core.
And things could evolve over time.
But I'd say at this point no.
There's nothing that points to a radical change in the architecture that is going to change the balance of metro versus core.
It might be the case that you'll see some of that happening in some customers and others but there's no sort of obvious trend that I'd say at this point.
The next question is from Ittai Kidron of Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about going back to this CapEx routing cycle.
In the past you used to estimate the roughly the seasonal spending pattern as 45% in the first half of the year and 55% in the second.
Is this something you subscribe to this year? And if this routing cycle does happen is anything in that pattern going to be different from your standpoint? Well I think the routing cycle is happening and it's more focused on Edge and the core will kick in.
And I think in 2013 we expect sort of typical seasonal patterns on routing CapEx.
So we expect to see an uptick in the second half.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And lastly regarding the switching business good results on numbers there.
I guess the question is on the EX9200 when you look at the 82 and the 92 together was there growth in that business or most of that business was really a replacement factor of the 82? And second regarding your QFabric business it's been although the mini is relatively new the portfolio itself is a little bit longer in the tooth here and with Cisco introducing a lot of new products just a month ago when do -- when would be the right time to think about an upgrade of your high-end data center switching portfolio? Yes so we're pleased with our switching performance in Q2 overall.
Certainly as we introduce a new product like the EX9200 the transition is a very important thing for us to think about as we get our customer sort of thinking about what's the right product for them.
We're pleased with the way that that transition had been rolling out especially in the Q2 timeframe.
And then the 9200 in and of itself is a very programmable device that's really ready for at the end.
That message is really resonating with our customers.
So I'm optimistic about the growth potential of that platform.
And then on the QFabric the QFabric remains -- I mean there are many that are talking about fabrics today but the QFabric remains the single true converged fabric architecture for the data center that provides us with thought leadership it opens up doors for us all the time with our customers and again the introduction of some of the smaller versions of the QFabric and the new features have provided us with some nice momentum.
And last I'll say about -- when we think about the upgrade and we're always at Juniper thinking about next-generation upgrades and roadmaps in technology and so it's all the time.
The next question is from Mark Sue of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Kevin I hope we didn't wear you out over the past 5 years.
No no not at all Mark.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So my question is at the peak of your historic routing cycles I've seen over the last 15 20 years the revenue growth can exceed 20% and then at the bottom of the cycle the revenues can actually be flat to slightly negative.
So with that in mind as we go forward I mean there are things Juniper can do differently to kind of manage the business because it is cyclical manage just kind of the mix and the cash flow of the margins.
And then a question for you Bob.
In security I've been you've been -- Juniper has been trying to stabilize the business for some time.
You have $2.8 billion in cash which incidentally is the check that Cisco wrote this morning to acquire Sourcefire.
So with that in mind how do you accelerate change for the security division with the limited resources? And is the stability in the business worth all the investments that you're making or is it better to kind of reallocate those resources and refocus on wireless core routers or PTX which is your traditional areas of strength.
Okay so I think Kevin will start on the third question and then I can add on that and then we'll hand it over to Bob.
Yes in terms of -- Mark in terms of your question of managing the mix one of the strategies that we think helps us do that is customer diversification.
So even within service providers the fact that we focus on not only just carriers which is our traditional customer base of wireline and wireless but also cable and content providers that helps us manage the mix.
And then the fact that we've got strong enterprise business as well that has a wider base of customers and industry verticals.
So if one industry vertical is maybe in a down cycle there's another one that's in an up cycle.
So that diversification of customers across service provider and enterprise is really a core part of our strategy to diversify that mix.
Likewise then focusing on 3 products or 3 business areas routing switching and security is also a key part of what we do to try and manage that mix.
And certainly when you see cycles where we have good performance in 2 of those business areas and maybe weaker performance in a third that helps balance things out.
Certainly the challenge is when you run R&amp;D and the type of projects that Bob and Rami oversee many of those are certainly multi-quarter but in many cases multi-year projects.
When we take decisions in terms of silicon roadmaps and major systems roadmaps and things we're doing those become a longer cycle.
And so the investment that you have to make has to endure both times when revenue is up and revenue is down.
But at the core of it we try and diversify the customer base both in service provider and enterprise to ensure that we don't have as much I guess variability in the overall op margins or profitability of the company.
Yes and I would also add obviously over this last cycle we have not only learned a lot but also ensured that we've taken the right actions from a cost perspective and made sure that we're continuing to focus on that side through even a spending cycle that we say with the service providers and also improved demand on the enterprise side as well.
So on the security side would you want to comment Rob? Sure I'll make a couple of comments Mark.
Thanks for your question.
On the security side we talked about accelerating change and when I think about that first we've been very open for some number of quarters that would have some challenges in our security business in particular the challenges as we executed the transition from the NetScreen product line to screen -- over to the SRX and some of the issues we've had with enterprise.
When I think about accelerating changes I sort of divide that into 3 sections.
There's the side of organic things we can do inside our R&amp;D organization there's some inorganic things that one might do and then there's the go-to-market side.
And we're really focused at some level on all 3.
Most of our change over the last 18 months has been on our organic R&amp;D where we've made major changes in our management team in our engineering team and have really really reinvigorated the work we're doing there.
We are attracting talent and are continuing to attract talent in the security business including in the last quarter where we've added some great new talent that we think will pay dividend in the long run.
On the inorganic side we haven't done anything at the $2.8 billion level and we don't really anticipate anything like that.
But we have done some very strategic tuck-in acquisitions that have helped us to move into some new business areas and you saw that with Mykonos you saw that with the work that we've done on DDoS Secure.
We think those will pay dividends in the long run.
And as I mentioned in my prepared scripts we're doing some things in terms of our go-to-market efforts on the enterprise and in security to really help accelerate our ability to move forward in that business so there's changes we're making there.
In terms of your comments about is it worth it we pretty strongly believe the answer to that is yes and I'll give you a couple of reasons for that.
One is that when we look at the growth of sorts of businesses that are growing security overall we believe will continue to be a growing business in the years to come.
When we see the challenges that our customers are facing with hackers attacking their data center environment and stealing their intellectual property those threats are going to continue to increase so the sophistication of the ability to defend against that is also going to increase and we believe we're very well positioned to actually capitalize on that and actually have a leadership position there within WebApp Secure and Spotlight.
The other thing I'll point out is just that we see great complements with our security business and our networking business.
That's true in the systems side.
It is also true as we move in the software side with SDN.
And as I mentioned quite a few of our trials of the SDN work we're doing brings together both our networking side as well as our security side and we think that better positions us competitively in the market.
Thank you.
That is all the time we have today.
We'd like to thank everyone for your great questions and for your participation on today's call.
Thank you.
Bye bye.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Juniper Networks' Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Ms.
Kathleen Nemeth Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you.
Ms.
Nemeth you may begin.
Thank you operator.
Good afternoon and thank you everyone for joining us today.
Here on the call are Kevin Johnson Chief Executive Officer; Robyn Denholm Chief Financial and Operations Officer; and Rami Rahim Executive Vice President Platform Systems Division.
Rahim is in Brazil today where he is presenting at the Futurecom Conference.
Please remember when listening to today's call that statements concerning Juniper's business outlook economic and market outlook strategies future financial operating results and overall future prospects are forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors including economic conditions generally or within the networking industry; changes in overall technology spending and spending by communication service providers and major customers; the network capacity requirements of service providers; the timing of orders and shipments; manufacturing and supply chain constraints; variation in the mix of products sold; customer perception and acceptance of our products; rapid technological and market change; litigation; and other factors listed in our most recent 10-Q and the 8-K filed with the SEC today.
All statements made during this call are made only as of today.
Juniper undertakes no obligation to update the information in this conference call in the event facts or circumstances change after the date of this call.
In discussing the financial results Robyn will first present results on a GAAP basis.
And for purposes of today's discussion we will also review non-GAAP results.
For important commentary on why our management team considers non-GAAP information a useful view of the company's financial results please consult the press release furnished with our 8-K filed with the SEC today.
For the detailed reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP results please see the Investor Relations section of our website.
On today's call Robyn will also be providing forward-looking guidance.
As a reminder guidance is provided on a non-GAAP basis other than that with respect to revenue and share count.
All guidance is forward-looking and actual results may vary for the reasons I noted earlier.
GAAP guidance measures are not available on a forward-looking basis due to the high variability and low visibility with respect to certain charges which are excluded from the non-GAAP guidance estimate.
Please note that today's call is scheduled to last for 1 hour.
[Operator Instructions] With that I'll turn the call over to Kevin.
Thanks Kathleen and welcome to all of you joining us on today's conference call.
I'm pleased with our results this quarter as we delivered our fifth consecutive quarter of year-over-year growth reflecting good execution against our strategy.
Overall our results were in line with the expectations we set in the second quarter.
We continue to see strength in the service provider market the enterprise tracked largely as we expected and security continued its trend towards stabilization with sequential growth in the third quarter.
In each of these areas we continue to exhibit the strength and innovation of our product portfolio.
Overall the macro environment remains dynamic.
While we are encouraged to see the U.S.
government reopen we are mindful of potential volatility in the Federal sector.
There are a few things I'd like to highlight for the third quarter before I turn the call over to Rami for an update on our Platform Systems division.
First the response we're getting from customers indicates our SDN and network function virtualization strategy continues to resonate with them.
SDN is a growth opportunity for us in both networking systems and software.
Our vision is to unleash innovation and agility in customer IT investments by unblocking the impediment of the static network to their cloud strategies.
We're doing this in 3 ways.
First we offer a unique advantage through our deep knowledge and proven track record of innovation in high-performance networking with a focus on systems and software.
Second we provide clarity of choice with software and programmable systems that are based on industry standards and open source models with Open Contrail.
Customers can buy our products and solutions today.
And finally we have outlined a clear 4-step implementation strategy for customers that includes a flexible cloud-oriented software licensing model the Juniper Software Advantage.
As we mentioned last quarter following highly successful beta trials we launched our Contrail SDN Controller earlier than our original 2014 ship date.
Contrail works in private and public cloud environments to virtualize the company's data center network and enable service providers to build new Edge networks that significantly reduce the time required to deploy future services.
We have both a commercial and an open license model for Contrail.
Open Contrail our open source license version provides access to all aspects of the Contrail source code offering easy integration a stable platform a production-ready code base and compatibility with both CloudStack and OpenStack.
It is our view that the open-source business model of Open Contrail will enable maximum reach while the commercial Contrail business model allows us to monetize Contrail for those customers who look to Juniper for a supported version of the product.
In addition to providing world-class end-to-end solutions across Juniper's routing switching and security systems we have also enabled Contrail to work with competitors' network hardware and software products.
This will reduce both the time and risk associated with deploying network virtualization technologies by customers accelerating the benefits of SDN and network function virtualization.
In other product highlights we had a strong quarter in routing which Rami will discuss in more detail.
We also saw good growth in our switching bookings that reflect good traction in the data center.
You can expect some additional data center announcements later this month.
Looking at our overall markets we continue to drive innovation in service provider where we're focused on carrier including wireless and wireline along with cable and web 2.0 companies.
As I mentioned we're executing as we said we would in SDN and network function virtualization with Contrail and we're continuing our progress in systems and software and data centers and service provider networks.
In addition we're continuing to focus on advancing the integration of optical and routing.
We are well-positioned to take advantage of the continued growth we're seeing in the Edge and the expected growth we've been talking about in the core with good momentum across our broad product portfolio.
Globally we're seeing strength in service provider across all 3 geographies the Americas EMEA and APAC.
In the enterprise we continue you to focus on high-performance networking to help transform the SDN-enabled virtualized data center.
Within the data center we help customers virtualize their network and connect their private clouds to commercially provided public clouds.
This is also enabled by our Contrail Controller.
In security as we have said consistently in recent quarters we continue to see signs of stabilization in the product portfolio.
For data centers we are driving the industry agenda on security and today we have the most advanced solution to protect data centers from attack.
Our campus and branch installed base is significant and we're evolving that technology to meet the emerging needs of our customers.
And we continue to introduce new features and improve manageability of our security solutions.
Although we haven't yet returned to year-over-year growth in this business the sequential growth we saw in the third quarter is encouraging and we believe our security business is well-positioned for a return to growth in 2014.
Wrapping up we continue to drive our innovation agenda offering unique solutions for our customers in each of our markets.
While the macroeconomic environment continues to be dynamic we believe the business is healthy and momentum is building.
We are focused on executing with agility and delivering long-term growth to our stakeholders.
With that I'll turn it over to Rami.
Thanks Kevin.
It's great to be here today to discuss the third quarter results for the Platform Systems Division.
Overall I'm pleased with this past quarter.
Kevin covered the results at a high level so what I'll do is walk through some of the drivers behind this quarter's results for PSD and provide some additional context.
There are 2 key businesses within PSD Routing and Switching and the customers we serve span both service provider and enterprise.
I'm pleased to report that PSD's revenue came in at $939 million up 3% quarter-over-quarter and up 13% year-over-year.
Our PSD product revenues were up 3% quarter-over-quarter and up 17% year-over-year.
For Q3 PSD product revenue was at $742 million our highest product revenue on record demonstrating solid performance and continued growth in this business.
The sequential increase in PSD revenues overall was driven primarily by growth in routing and strength in service providers globally.
This quarter's switching results were mixed up slightly year-over-year but down sequentially due to lumpiness in service provider demand for data center solutions.
While switching revenue declined sequentially our switching bookings were healthy.
In routing we saw strong spending among our Tier 1 service providers as well as strength among our cable and Web 2.0 customers.
In the enterprise demand is being created by data center consolidation data center modernization and the continued adoption of fabric-based architectures.
Let's go a bit deeper on our results.
First Routing the PSD Routing business was up 7% quarter-over-quarter and up 22% year-over-year.
Quarterly growth was driven by both core and edge routing and the year-over-year growth in routing was driven primarily by edge routing.
We continue to have a diverse customer base and a robust product mix.
We simplified our product portfolio and delivered innovative products and technologies including new variants of the MX2020 and the MX2010 and a new multiservice line card that delivers high-performance services to the MX.
The Junos 13.2 release also came out in Q3 and it was packed with compelling customer features.
We had some great routing wins this quarter one at a leading Australian provider of home and mobile communications and broadband and another at a leading Canadian provider of cable and Internet.
The PSD Switching business was down 8% quarter-over-quarter and up 1% year-over-year.
The quarterly decline was partly due to coming off a strong quarter in Q2 and partly due to the variability in service provider demand for data center solutions.
On the other hand we did see good bookings growth year-over-year and have a strong backlog going into the next quarter.
We continue to see growth in both data center and combined campus and data center deployment.
We saw strength in top-of-rack and 10-gig overall both sequentially and year-over-year.
We also saw good repeat and new business in both Service Provider and Enterprise accounts for switching.
Our innovation pipeline was rich in the third quarter as we shipped several new variants of our EX family of fixed switches as well as new 100-gig line cards for the EX9200.
On the SDN front Juniper also announced the general availability of our Contrail Controller that enables seamless integration between physical and virtual networks for both service providers and enterprises.
It had been in trials with roughly 40 customers across the world.
We are very pleased that we were able to pull in the dates of this release and ship a product that supports industry-standard protocols.
All credit goes to our hard-working and innovative engineers.
We also joined with VMware at VMworld in August to announce a hardware accelerated physical to virtual gateway solution using Juniper's high-performance networking infrastructure and VMware's NSX.
The data center is an important focus area for us and you'll continue to hear about our innovations in the domain as Kevin mentioned earlier.
We had some great wins in switching and wireless as well one with a multinational industry leader in oil and gas exploration and refining and the other at a global financial services firm.
So with all that said I summarize as follows: we are well positioned in the edge core and virtualized data center with our portfolios today and innovations in the pipeline.
Customer feedback around our solutions and recently launched innovations have been very positive.
We are pleased with the progress we are seeing and I'm satisfied with how we are delivering against our innovation agenda.
At this point I'm going to turn it over to Robyn.
Thank you.
Thank you Rami and good afternoon everyone.
I'm pleased to report that our third quarter results reflect continued momentum in revenue and earnings growth.
Revenue came in slightly higher than our expectations driven by continued strength in Service Provider Routing.
Non-GAAP earnings increased sequentially due to healthy growth margins partially offset by operating expenses that were at the upper end of our guidance.
Our focus on driving top line growth and operational excellence is unchanged.
With that goal in mind we continue to work to improve our cost structure.
In the third quarter we took additional steps to rationalize our product portfolios and rebalanced our investments.
I will talk more about this and associated restructuring charges later in my prepared remarks.
Looking at our demand metrics we continue to see signs of strength in the service provider market and for the first time in several quarters saw this in all 3 geographies.
We had a good bookings quarter with book-to-bill greater than 1.
Product deferred revenue was up slightly quarter-over-quarter and backlog remained at healthy levels.
Total revenue was $1 186 000 000 up 3% sequentially and 6% year-over-year.
Product revenue was up 4% quarter-over-quarter and 7% from a year ago.
Services revenue was down slightly versus the prior quarter primarily due to the timing of certain renewals.
Although we had no 10% customers this quarter we saw strong revenues from our top-tier carrier customers.
For the quarter GAAP diluted earnings per share were $0.19 including a $0.02 impact from restructuring charges.
Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share were $0.33 up $0.04 sequentially and increased significantly by $0.11 year-over-year.
The sequential growth was driven primarily by higher revenue and gross margins but also included a $0.01 benefit from the lower tax rate.
Now let me provide color on revenue by region market and business segment.
Americas revenue was down 2% sequentially and up 18% year-over-year.
The sequential decline was due to Enterprise.
As a reminder Q2's Enterprise results included the recognition of $34 million of government revenue that is previously being deferred.
Excluding this Q3 Enterprise revenue in the Americas would have increased by 1% sequentially.
Also Enterprise was up 6% year-over-year reflecting broad-based strength partially offset by some softness in the financial services and Federal markets.
Americas Service Provider increased sequentially by 4% and had its third quarter in a row of double digit year-over-year growth reflecting wins across content carriers and cable service provider verticals.
EMEA revenue was up 2% sequentially but down 5% year-over-year.
The sequential growth was driven by strong Service Provider performance as design wins in the U.K.
and Middle East began converting to revenue shipments.
Enterprise demand was weak in the quarter relative to a strong performance in Q2 due to some business taking longer than we expected to close.
APAC router rebounded sharply from a weak Q2 growing 25% quarter-over-quarter with double digit increases in both Service Provider and Enterprise.
This strong performance was driven by good growth in China Australia and South Korea.
Service Provider revenue was $788 million up 9% sequentially and 12% year-over-year with broad based strength across all 3 geographies.
Enterprise revenue was $397 million down 6% sequentially and 4% year-over-year.
Excluding the government deferred revenue recognition in Q2 Enterprise would have been up slightly quarter-over-quarter.
The year-over-year decline was due to weaker financial services and government business globally and the timing of some large switching builds in APAC and EMEA.
Now let me review our revenue by segment.
Platform Systems division revenue was $939 million up 3% sequentially and 13% year-over-year.
Total router product revenue of $609 million was up 5% sequentially and 18% year-over-year.
The MX product line had its second successive revenue record quarter growing 15% sequentially.
The recently released MX2020 and MX2010 product continued to gain traction with customers.
Core routing had a good quarter growing 11% sequentially with the T Series product line having its best quarter in the last 4 quarters.
Total switching product revenue of $148 million was down 8% sequentially from a record Q2 and up 1% year-over-year.
The sequential decline was primarily due to the timing in certain Service Provider data center deployment and the migration to the new EX9200 switching platform.
We did see strong bookings in the quarter and expect switching to regain its momentum.
SSD revenue was $246 million up 5% sequentially but down 15% year-over-year.
Total security product revenue was $144 million increasing nicely at 14% sequentially.
As I mentioned last quarter we were seeing early signs of the business turning around and this quarter's results are a positive sign.
Service Provider security revenue was strong in the quarter with high-end SRX growing double digits sequentially.
Enterprise security continued to stabilize with a record quarter for branch SRX and good sequential growth for high-end SRX in the data center.
This is still the early stage of our security business recovery and we continue to focus on growing revenue.
Our new products continue to secure design wins with revenues greater than $110 million for the quarter.
Moving on to gross margins and operating expenses.
Non-GAAP gross margins for the quarter was 64.4% compared to 63.7% last quarter and 65.6% a year ago.
Non-GAAP product gross margins were 65.4% an increase of 1.6% over last quarter and a decrease of 1.4% from last year.
As expected the sequential improvement was largely the result of the non-recurrence of last quarter's Federal revenue recognition.
Non-GAAP services gross margins were 61.3% a decrease of 2% from last quarter and a 0.9% from last year.
The sequential decline was a result of lower revenue and higher support-related costs.
Non-GAAP operating expenses were $530 million an increase of $14 million sequentially and a decrease of $15 million year-over-year.
This increase was primarily due to higher legal expenses.
We continue to focus on operational excellence and driving efficiency in our investments.
With that goal in mind we have taken some restructuring and rebalancing actions in October that will result in the elimination of approximately 280 positions in the fourth quarter.
We have also continued our real estate consolidation.
Looking at headcount we ended Q3 with 9 714 employees a sequential increase of 201 primarily in lower cost regions.
Non-GAAP operating margins for the quarter expanded to 19.8% compared to 18.9% last quarter and a significant improvement over the 16.9% last year.
The sequential increase was driven by higher revenue and gross margins and an improvement in operating expenses as a percentage of revenue.
The non-GAAP tax rate was 25.5% compared to 27.4% last quarter.
This improvement is due to the geographic mix of income and some onetime items.
Looking at the balance sheet we ended the quarter with $3 billion of net cash and investments.
We generated strong operating cash flows of $176 million in line with our historical patents.
Q3 DSO was 42 days up from 40 days last quarter.
Capital expenditures were $41 million down 43% sequentially as a result of the completion of the first phase of our Sunnyvale campus while depreciation and amortization expense was $41 million.
We repurchased 4.4 million shares for $93 million at an average price of $20.92.
And we have $1.2 billion remaining on our current authorization.
Now I will review our outlook for the fourth quarter.
As a reminder these metrics are provided on a non-GAAP basis except for revenue and share count.
We expect the December quarter to reflect continued strong Service Provider demand with some improvement in Enterprise.
However we are carefully monitoring any impacts in Federal spending from the recent U.S.
government shutdown.
For the fourth quarter we expect revenues to range from $1 200 000 000 to $1 230 000 000.
Gross margins are expected to be in the range of 64.5% plus or minus 0.5%.
Operating expenses are expected to range from $510 million to $525 million.
At the midpoint of guidance operating margins are expected to be approximately 22%.
This is expected to result in non-GAAP diluted EPS of between $0.35 and $0.37 per share assuming a flat share count and a tax rate of approximately 27.5%.
On a GAAP basis we also expect an additional restructuring charge of approximately $10 million related to the fourth quarter headcount actions.
To summarize we anticipate the overall demand to be healthy with some potential challenges in Federal.
As we drive to close out the year our product portfolio and focus on execution are very strong.
I would like to thank our employees for their continued dedication and commitment to Juniper's success.
And now with that let me turn the call over for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Rod Hall of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I just had a couple.
I wanted to go back to security because I thought that was a pretty positive number and just see if you could elaborate a little bit on what's going on there? What should we be thinking about trajectory et cetera? And where are those revenues coming from customer-wise if you can give us any more color on that? And then just on the guidance which is below what we were expecting -- I mean it feels like it's probably related to Federal/Enterprise but can you just clarify what the driver for this slightly weaker revenue expectation is for Q4? Yes thanks for your questions Rod.
I'll take the first one and then I'll hand off to Robyn to take the second question on the guide.
Yes on security we had a good sequential uptick on revenue in our security business.
And I think it's a reflection of the continued progress we're making.
As I mentioned before on these calls there's kind of 3 categories of scenarios that we're focused on in security.
One of them is securing Service Provider LTE networks and the mobile Internet.
The second is data centers both service provider and enterprise data centers and the third is campus and branch.
In the area of service providers and securing the LTE networks we did see some good momentum again on the service -- or this quarter on the service provider said which is one of the contributors on that uptick but we also saw very good growth sequentially on our high-end SRX which is used both for those service providers and the data centers.
So I think that the data center solution that we have that provides Web AppSecure Spotlight as well as that high-end SRX we believe is an industry-leading solution and we're seeing some continued progress especially with the high-end SRX.
And then for campus and branch we also saw good sequential growth in our branch SRX and that is also an area that we are doing some additional work for some new capabilities that we'll hear more about in the future.
But I think overall the SRX business did well.
The ScreenOS revenue as a percentage of the total is a lower percentage of the total than it was in the prior quarter which is a reflection of us continuing to make progress on moving that installed base and migrating from the ScreenOS revenue streams to the SRX and the rest of the security products.
So overall I think it's a good data point that gives us confidence we're executing against the right things.
But that said we know we still have a lot of work to do.
We're very clear about that.
We're very focused on that.
We have the resources applied to that and we believe we're well positioned for growth on our security business in 2014.
Robyn I'll let you take the question on guidance.
Yes.
So Rod on the guidance question in terms of the Service Provider momentum that we've been seeing and we saw in the third quarter we expect that to continue.
We're seeing good design wins in all 3 theaters and we continue to execute really well.
The guidance is tempered by our expectation of Federal being weak in the fourth quarter.
We did see some signs of that in the third quarter as we talked about in the prepared remarks and we do expect that in the fourth quarter.
And so absent that even through Enterprise we're expecting to continue on a good path.
But the Federal weakness we're expecting in the fourth quarter.
The next question comes from Tal Liani of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> On the core side I have 2 questions.
On the core side can you discuss where the strength is coming from PTX versus the T Series the new T Series? That's one question and if you can elaborate actually on PTX given that it's a architectural change.
And then this one is a broader question.
If I look at your chart Chart #9 basically the growth is coming from service providers in North America if I combine 2 pieces.
Is this a tied -- spending tied and that's what lifts up revenues? Or is this more company-related? That means if we have some slower growth of spending next year in certain projects are -- is there going to be a reversal of these positive trends? Or do you have enough product cycles that can lift you up even in a more challenging environment? Yes.
Thanks for your questions Tal.
Why don't I take your second question first and then I'm going to hand over to Rami to talk a little bit more about core and the trends that we see there.
Your second question had to do -- or sort of around broad growth in the service provider sector.
And I think what we see unfolding is very consistent with what we outlined in the last earnings call at the end of Q2 which is we continue to see service providers turn their attention and their CapEx investments to their IT networks.
And we saw a lot of strength in edge.
But this was a quarter where we also saw good sequential uptick in core.
We believe that is going to continue.
We believe -- if we look at the projects that we have there are a pipeline of projects that we're working on that will begin deployment in next year.
And so I think that we anticipate continued momentum going forward.
In -- specifically in our America Service Provider business not only did we see strength with our Tier 1 service providers but we also saw it in cable and the Web 2.0 content providers.
And so -- as well as the Tier 2 and Tier 3 carriers as well.
So it's a broad trend that we believe will continue.
In Europe I think with the service provider landscape in Europe I guess the way I would characterize it is that the large carriers were mixed but stable.
There were some that had projects that ended others that had projects that kicked off.
Some of those service providers projects that ended we have visibility to the next wave of projects.
So I think Europe service provider has stabilized and I think it's at the point they too need to invest CapEx in their IP infrastructure.
And there's been some wins that Rami mentioned that we had there.
And in Asia we also saw good sequential uptick in service providers primarily in countries such as Korea Australia China.
I think other countries were not quite as strong.
I think Japan was also a good performer.
So the net is I think on a global basis this trend that we see of service provider CapEx on the routing infrastructure was evident in the fact that all 3 theaters showed good sequential growth.
And we think that that's going to continue into 2014.
With that let me hand over to Rami.
And perhaps Rami you can take Tal's first question on core and what we're seeing there related to PTX T and some trends in core.
Rami? Yes I'd be happy to Kevin.
First I'll say that the main drivers that are sort of affecting our year-over-year performance in routing are still in the Edge.
And I think that the demand factors there are very strong whether it be capacity or service delivery or connectivity.
But that said we are pleased with what we've seen from a sequential standpoint in the core.
We've been saying now for a couple of quarters that the core networks are running hotter and therefore there is going to need to be an upgrade cycle.
And the fact that we're now seeing some sequential performance gives us conviction in that belief.
As far as the question around T versus PTX certainly both are performing quite well.
PTX year-over-year performance is very healthy.
T Series in fact I will say is driving a lot of the sequential performance.
You're actually right in that PTX is a bit of an architectural transition which is why we have the T and the MX as other options for our customers to round out our portfolio and make sure we're well equipped to address any sort of core build out.
The T Series remains the best investment story investment protection story in the industry.
And the PTX especially now is we introduced before the end of this year we've announced this already our 100-gig DWDM interfaces is really going to make it a very compelling packet optical solution for operators that are looking to consolidate layers in their network and simplify their network.
The next question comes from Kulbinder Garcha of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Maybe first for Kevin just in terms of going back to the previous comment you made it just feels like many of the service providers I'm thinking the telco service providers are indicating slowly -- it seems that they need to invest not only in the U.S.
but Europe is recovering.
There is signs of life continued signs of life in Asia.
I'm just wondering how has your visibility changed over the last 3 or 6 months in your conversation? And color you could give around that would be helpful.
And my second question is on the SDN side I know it's very early days if you were to guess today in terms of these customers going from the 40 or so trials to an actual stage of relatively meaningful deployment whatever -- however you want to describe that how long is that away? Is that 2 to 5 years 12 months? Just the discussions you're having with the products you've launched.
How do you see the whole shape of that evolving? Thank you for your questions.
I'll take the first question and then perhaps I'll hand off to Rami to talk a little bit about SDN and how he sees that unfolding in the marketplace.
In terms of looking at what we see as a continued building strength of the service provider industry and marketplace your question specifically was how we've seen visibility change in the last 3 to 6 months.
And I would say that the trends that we identified I would say in Q3 of the year ago so about 12 months ago are consistent.
Yet I would say our visibility to the specific projects has -- continues to improve and continues to strengthen.
And that's a function of bids that customers had that they were in the process of working that we have been awarded and the teams are now engaged working on those projects.
And in some cases it includes new features new software.
I think the fact that our backlog is up our deferred revenue is up the pipeline is strong all of those are data points that are indicators that the visibility to that service provider spending cycle has improved over the last 1 to 2 quarters.
Let me hand off to Rami to share our perspective then on SDN and how quickly Rami you see deployments unfolding.
Certainly.
So I look at a number of different layers.
With respect to SDN it is certainly still in the early stages and there are a lot of customers that we're having discussions with around the journey that they will undertake in order to deploy SDN in their network.
Today what we're doing in fact is we're implementing the hook into our systems into our platforms and the programmability into our platform that gives customers the peace of mind that they are investing in switching routing security that will evolve through this SDN journey without having to do a wholesale of network upgrades.
That is very much resonating with our customers and we're seeing momentum in the market as a result of that message alone.
Now we're also of course developing really industry-leading software like our Contrail Controller that provides unprecedented scales that provides things like resiliency and peering between controllers and so forth that our customers are starting to really think about how they're going to deploy in order to solve a number of challenges in their network.
I think that this is going to play out over multiple quarters.
I think that one of the most prominent applications for it will be in the data center to build out overlay networks for the purpose of virtualizing networks in the data center.
We want to do this both with our own systems and our own controller as well as with our own systems and partners like VMware.
As I said it's going to take a few quarters for this to pan out but we're very confident in the solutions that we're developing to address these applications that I mentioned.
The next question comes from Simona Jankowski of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just had 2 questions.
The first one was I think you commented that China bounced back in the quarter.
If you can just dig into that a little bit since some others have commented on weakness there.
And then the second one kind of back to the core routing dynamics and perhaps this one's for Rami are you seeing any impact at all from the new product introductions in the market from Alcatel as well as Cisco's CRS-X and the NCS whether in terms of market share or pricing or just any other implications? Thanks for your questions Simona.
I'll take your first question and then I'll hand off to Rami for the second question.
Just to clarify I think in the comments what we saw was we saw good sequential growth in APAC of which China was one of the contributors.
And I think my comments on China specifically on the service provider side is that our strategy has always been one that we've been very targeted or very surgical on the opportunities or the areas that we focus on in China specifically those opportunities that play to our strengths of having a differentiated product set in the areas of scale and performance for very -- obviously very high volumes of traffic in China.
And I think there were some opportunities in the quarter that unfolded that generated some revenue for us in China specifically in the service provider routing side of the market that contributed to the overall APAC results.
I think China -- we work closely with our partner Ericsson in many of the service provider instances.
And so Ericsson continues to be a very good partner for us in certain geographies.
And certainly China is one of them and that's a contributing factor as well.
Rami I'll hand over to you for the question Simona's question on the core.
Thanks for the question Simona.
I'll say that this market whether it be core routing or edge routing has always been a very competitive market.
And I certainly don't expect any of our competitors to stand still.
I operate -- we innovate under the assumption that both Cisco and Alcatel are going to be releasing new products as they both have.
It doesn't change the strategy that we are executing towards and the fact that I remain very confident in the technology that we're developing and releasing into the market.
I mean the fact remains that the PTX is still the only platform of its kind in terms of the efficiency of which it can move packets around.
So it appeals to the transport buyer.
T Series remains the best investment section.
It's been out there for a decade.
It's still growing.
It still has excellent capacity.
And then as I also mentioned in the past the 2020 the MX2020 now gives us an architectural approach that blends services throughout the entire network edge and core and that also is resonating with many of our customers.
So I remain confident in the technology that we're -- that we have today.
And of course were not standing still either.
We're working on next-generation silicon next-generation software to make sure that we maintain our competitive edge.
The next question comes from Mark Sue of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> You are proactively pruning the headcount.
Would you consider extending or pruning to the product portfolio? If I look at the Enterprise for example the routers there are down 50%.
Security is better now but it was -- it's been somewhat inconsistent and even for carrier WiFi -- enterprise WiFi products.
So I'm wondering are there benefits to becoming more focused and less broad? Or do you feel that with the return of the carrier router cycle that perhaps you'd double down in some of the other investments? Yes.
Thanks for the question Mark.
Let me comment on that and then I'll let Rami add to it a bit on the product portfolio side.
But let me just say first of all we have been pruning the product portfolio.
I think one example of that is MobileNext.
And just to give you some perspective there when we launched the MobileNext project it was part of an overall strategy to continue to increase our push into the wireless side of the business.
And we continue to see good growth in the wireless side as evidenced by the strong performance we've seen on the MX and some of the core convergence projects that were doing with PTX.
And now with the introduction of the ACX in the backhaul I think all those things have helped us continue to strengthen our position in the wireless side of service providers.
In addition the inflection point of network function virtualization and SDN we believe is going to create a paradigm shift in how evolved packet core solutions are deployed.
We believe that's going to become more of an x86 virtualized network function and something like Contrail will play a role in service chaining and help enabling that.
And so we took a decision to cancel that project.
And so that cancellation of that project is pruning the portfolio and is part of this reduction in the headcount that we just spoke of.
And I think there is a number of examples of smaller things like that that we are doing.
Now specific to your question on routing and you said enterprise routing was down keep in mind these are the same routers that we sell to service providers.
And much of -- well part of the reason it's down is related to the U.S.
federal and other large entities like that that have similar attributes to their business like service providers.
So unless we took a decision to start to prune the portfolio in our core business and service providers which I don't think makes sense these are the same products that we sell to many of our large enterprise customers.
But certainly we do believe that the strategy we're on is one of narrowing our focus.
We've been very clear that our focus on the service provider and specifically the domains of the core and the edge of their networks and now with ACX on the access layer of their networks as well as their data centers and that data center priority is one that then crosses over into enterprise.
You will hear more about some new things that we'll announce in the data center here later this month.
And then certainly there are some areas that we'll continue to assess but we're very committed to the fact that monetizing our investment in R&amp;D across both service provider and enterprise with products that sell to both is the most leveraged way to drive value both for our shareholders and for our customers.
Rami let me hand over to you and let you -- see if you -- if there are things you want to add to that or amplify.
I'll just add a couple of things.
I think you've covered it well Kevin.
The engineering principle that we're applying to our strategy are really all around focus and high leverage.
If you think about what we've done in the past for example in focusing our investing dollars in the MX as opposed to spreading them across multiple different edge platforms that is an example of a strategy that has worked very well for us and an example of what we are essentially doing now.
I want to make sure that we solve our customers' high-performance networking problems with the fewest number of high-quality differentiated platforms as possible and that's essentially what we're doing.
We want to make sure that we're leveraging between our data center and our campus.
We've done that in our organizational designs.
Between service provider and enterprise we've seen tons of opportunities to do that as enterprises start to seek the same sort of carrier class capabilities in their platform.
We're doing just that as well.
So I think these are just some of the principles that we're applying that have worked for us well in the past and will continue to work well for us going forward.
The next question is from Subu Subrahmanyan of the Juda Group.
Research Division</strong> My question is on the switching business.
Could you talk about excluding the lumpiness what are the other drivers you're seeing going forward? Is it share gain? Is it new products that you're releasing in the data center? And can you talk about QFabric versus a standalone best-of-breed product strategy how we should see that play out in 2014? Yes.
Subu thanks for your question.
Rami let me hand this one to you and I'll let you talk a bit about our switching portfolio.
Certainly.
So the major driver that we're seeing right now for switching are in data center and combined data center/campus opportunities.
We execute at -- a good fraction of our business goes to enterprises that are building common cores that serve both their data center and their campus.
10-gig upgrades are still happening.
They're coming strong from the growth in our 10-gig ports across our portfolio.
SDN as I mentioned earlier the discussion now is about making sure that our customers are equipped with the infrastructure that can help them move through the -- sort of their SDN strategy whether it be one with our own controller Contrail or one with our partner controllers for example VMware.
We did not break out the QFabric versus EX performance.
At the end of the day we have multiple different fabric options that will solve various different problems that our customers need solved.
The Virtual Chassis and the EX QFabric and the QFabric architecture are both different options.
And depending on who you're talking to or what problem you're trying to solve each one will have a sweet spot in terms of its applications.
And yes as we did say we're at -- revenue was essentially flat year-over-year.
The bookings momentum that we saw in terms of growth gives us confidence in -- and backlog that we built I should say gives us confidence in the next quarter.
And Kevin did mention that we are going to be announcing somewhat shortly some new innovations in the spaces that are going to help us and only increase our confidence.
The next question comes from Ben Reitzes of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk about services expectations for the fourth quarter? You mentioned there were some renewals that didn't get signed and maybe that implied some services revenue pushed into the fourth quarter.
I wasn't sure.
And then just on Federal is it still about 4% of sales? And what did it do in the quarter? And what's in your guidance for Federal? You said qualitatively.
If you can quantify any of that around federal that would be really helpful.
Yes.
Ben thank you for the question.
On the first question around services so we did see a slight decline in the revenue quarter-over-quarter.
We do expect that to come back over the next couple of quarters.
We also saw a drop or a decline in the gross margins by about 2 points and we do expect that to come back as well over the next couple of quarters as well.
So the services business is very healthy.
On the support side obviously as our footprint grows we need to continue to make sure that we're there for our customers in terms of maintaining the products that we have out in the marketplace.
So that's why the gross margin came down a little bit.
In terms of the federal revenue about a year ago I gave you the percentage of about 4.5% of total company revenue and that that had come down over the previous year.
On a year-to-date basis including the revenue in the second quarter the routing revenue that we've talked about in the second quarter we are at about that level at about 4.5% on a year-to-date basis.
I expect the fourth quarter to be weaker than what we typically see and therefore the percentage of overall total revenue for the year to be lower than the 4.5%.
I hope that clarifies it.
The next question comes from Brian Marshall of ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Obviously service provider continues to move in the right direction but enterprise is down a little bit.
Can you talk a little bit about sort of your partnership with IBM in conjunction with Pure and what else you're doing to address this kind of pre sort of configured pre-integrated stack? I think EMC earlier this morning talked about 50% year-over-year growth in their Vblock.
So I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about that? Then perhaps a quick update on the CEO search process and where we stand with that.
All right Brian thanks.
Let me hand your second question first and then I'll frame your first question and then hand it off to Rami.
On the CEO search on our last earnings call I commented that the board have put together a search committee and it started a search.
I would say that we're in the later stages of the process and I would expect -- there's no news to announce on that today but I would expect that when they conclude we'll make that news available certainly and just remind you that in the interim I will continue to fulfill the role as the CEO and will make sure that I'm available to have a smooth and thoughtful transition to my successor.
So the update is I think the -- I would characterize the board as being in the late stage of that process.
Your first question around the enterprise I think a couple of things as -- certainly as Robyn highlighted there were some weakness in Federal.
And we did see some good results on our SRX sequentially on the security business.
And then I think as Rami commented our bookings for switching we saw some good year-on-year growth with bookings and switching.
You put that together and I think there were some good signs of some progress and momentum there.
The relationship with IBM I think continues to be a very important one to us.
They're a key partner for our go-to-market in the enterprise.
I would say much of that relationship is anchored on the services side of their business and what we're doing to help enable their services side of the business.
And there are certainly opportunities for us to continue to expand that.
Your question specifically then is how are we addressing the integrated stacks of compute storage and networking that we're seeing on the market today.
And for that let me hand over to Rami and he can talk a little bit about the work we're doing with IBM in that area.
Rami? Yes Brian.
This is certainly an important segment of the market and this is precisely why we have created a partnership with IBM to make sure that we do have an offering that can satisfy that part of the market.
But I will just point out that it's not only about that.
There are the large sets of our customers especially the very large customers that are looking for much more modularity open interfaces between the various different stack elements in their data center and we're well equipped to have those discussions especially as a result of partnerships that we have with EMC and VMware and CloudStack and OpenStack and so forth.
We want to promote an open ecosystem of the different sort of software and hardware stack elements that will appeal to many of our customers.
So both segments of the data center markets are really important to us integrated and more disintegrated if you will.
The next question comes from Amitabh Passi of UBS.
Research Division</strong> I had a 2-part question on security and then one for Robyn.
Kevin or Rami just on the security side can you give us a sense of how the service provider market is? We're hearing some noise in the market of increasing competitive pressure in that market.
Just wondering how you would characterize the environment for your Service Provider security business.
And then Kevin just related to your data center strategy is there any -- or are there any metrics you can give us that give us a sense of how WebApp and Spotlight are developing? And then Robyn just one for you on the OpEx front.
If we assumed 5% 6% growth next year for top line how do we think about OpEx progression for 2014? Yes.
Thanks for your question Amitabh.
I'll take the first on and then hand over to Robyn for the second one.
The first part of your question was related to security specifically in the service provider market.
And the specific area that we are focused on with that is securing the LTE network.
So the mobile Internet of our large wireless carriers.
And we've had a significant number of wins and success in that area.
And the key driver is the fact that these require very high end systems to handle large amounts of traffic.
And the high-end SRX has been a very strong offering for service providers in securing their LTE networks.
We don't see a lot of competitive threats in that particular area of the service provider which is where we're focused on security.
Certainly service providers have other security needs in other areas whether it's data center their own campuses.
And certainly there are competitors in those areas.
But when it comes to securing the LTE mobile Internet I think we continue to feel like we've got a strong position and we enhance the product to have even more scale and the ability to handle more concurrent sessions and more throughput.
I think some of the evidence is just the sequential growth that we've seen on our high-end SRX is evidence of supporting that.
On the data center side your question was what do we see that -- with WebApp Secure and Spotlight.
With WebApp Secure and Spotlight we're now seeing some of the early stages of the deployments and the implementations of those.
By the same token we're seeing the high-end SRX that goes into data centers that sequential uptick was also contributed by wins in the enterprise.
And a number of these enterprise data center wins with -- in the area of security in many cases would fall into customer segments like financial services and Federal government that also have very large data centers and high-end computing needs.
So there's no specific data that I can give you on WebApp Secure and Spotlight today.
I would say it's -- we see sort of -- customers are now in the process of going through the early stages of deploying.
We're starting to see deployments increase.
But it's still early in that cycle.
But it does -- those deployments do reinforce the value of the high-end SRX and we did see good sequential uptick on the high-end SRX.
Robyn I'll hand over to you for the second part.
Yes Amitabh.
In terms of the OpEx side obviously as a company we're committed to growing revenue and also to continue our journey on the operational excellence front.
And we've done a pretty good job I think in terms of managing operating expenses and to reduce the overall cost structure of the company over the last 12 months or so.
As we move into next year obviously we're not at a point where we can give you guidance on that but I will refer you back to our operating model where we've talked about being -- OpEx as a percentage of revenue in the 39% to 42% range.
At the midpoint of guidance that I gave you for Q4 we'll be approaching that 42% range.
It's about 42.5% at the midpoint of our OpEx guidance for the fourth quarter.
So my view is that's where we're headed into the long-term model range as we move through next year.
The next question comes from Simon Leopold of Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to see if you could update us on the target for new products.
You mentioned on the call and the prepared remarks that you are at $110 million for that set of new products.
You've in the past talked about exiting the year at $150 million.
I'd like to get an update on that target as well as an update of how the mix has evolved in terms of your expectations on those new products.
Thank Simon.
I'll start and then I'll let Kevin comment as well.
So in terms of the third quarter we were over $110 million of revenue on the new products.
And as you will recall there were 5 products that I talked about at FAM a year ago in terms of what constituted that $150-million target.
It was T4K the T4000 the PTX QFabric and then we also included ACX and MobileNext.
It is very fair to say that the 3 products T4000 PTX and QFabric make up the bulk of the revenue in the third quarter.
And they have done -- over the past few years I've given you updates against that target.
We feel very good about the pipeline that we have and about the design wins that we have across the board in terms of our T4000 PTX and QFabric and the momentum on ACX is starting to build.
And so we're 90 days away from the end of the fourth quarter so we'll report out against that target in the fourth quarter.
But we feel very good about where we are in the cycle of new products that we've launched.
And don't forget since we've talked about these byproducts we've also launched some pretty compelling new products in the MX2000 series both the 2010 and the 2020.
And we've also had quite good revenue against those products as well as we've developed through the year as they've been out there for a quarter.
I'll let Kevin comment as well.
Yes thanks for the question Simon.
I think the -- when it comes to the core routing whether it's PTX or T Series I think we saw good sequential uptick on T4000 and we've done a lot of work to lay the foundation for that.
And as Rami mentioned earlier PTX continues to be a good performing product for us.
Key on us achieving that will be continued evidence that service providers are shifting or complementing their CapEx expenditures that we currently see on the edge and complementing those with continued upgrades and continued investment in the core.
And we saw evidence of that in Q3 we'll see how that unfolds in Q4.
The ACX addresses the access layer of the network and I think we're seeing some beginning traction in the ACX.
And we'll see how that unfolds as well.
That's a newer product in the product family but it does reinforce the strategy we have of focusing on the wireless service providers with a product set that gives us mobile backhaul.
In terms of data centers I think the -- we had a very strong quarter in Q2 with QFabric.
We continue to move forward with some of the key QFabric wins that Rami mentioned and this is both on the service provider side as well as the enterprise side.
And I think there's a number of deployments.
I think Q4 will be a function of how many of those new systems get deployed combined with how many of the existing installed base customers expand their networks.
And then I think in regards to MobileNext we commented earlier on the call that we had canceled that project based on what we see happening in the market with a shift more towards network function virtualization.
So I think the mix shift of perhaps what we expected to what we will see we're probably going to see a higher percentage certainly in core versus the MobileNext and I think Access will be probably about what we expected.
And data center I think will be about where -- perhaps where we expected when we set that target a year ago in June.
So the mix has slightly changed but not too far off.
And I think the key factor is going to be what we see in terms of SP CapEx focused on the core as well as some of these big data center deployments with QFabric.
Okay thank you.
That is unfortunately all the time we have today.
We'd like to thank you for your great questions and for your participation and we look forward to speaking with you again next quarter.
Thanks everyone.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Juniper Networks Fourth Quarter 2013 Financial Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Kathleen Nemeth Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you.
Ms.
Nemeth you may begin.
Thank you operator.
Good afternoon and thank you everyone for joining us today.
Here on the call are Shaygan Kheradpir Chief Executive Officer; and Robyn Denholm Chief Financial and Operations Officer.
Rami Rahim Executive Vice President Platform Systems Division will join us for the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Please remember when listening to today's call that statements concerning Juniper's business outlook economic and market outlook strategy future financial operating results and overall future prospects are forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors including economic conditions generally or within the networking industry; changes in overall technology spending and spending by communication service providers and major customers; the network capacity requirements of service providers; the timing of orders and shipments manufacturing and supply chain constraints variation in the mix of products sold customer perception and acceptance of our products; rapid technological and market change; litigation; the potential impact of activities related to the execution of Juniper's integrated operating plan; and other factors listed in our most recent 10-Q and the press release furnished with our 8-K filed with the SEC today.
All statements made during this call are made only as of today.
Juniper undertakes no obligation to update the information in this conference call in the event facts or circumstances change after the date of the call.
In discussing the financial results Robyn will first present results on a GAAP basis.
And for purposes of today's discussion we will also review non-GAAP results.
For important commentary on why our management team considers non-GAAP information a useful view of the company's financial results please consult the press release furnished with our 8-K filed with the SEC today.
For the detailed reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP results please see the Investor Relations section of our website.
On today's call Robyn will also be providing forward-looking guidance.
As a reminder guidance is provided on a non-GAAP basis other than that with respect to revenue and share count.
All guidance is forward-looking and actual results may vary for the reasons I noted earlier.
GAAP guidance measures are not available on a forward-looking basis due to the high variability and low visibility with respect to certain charges which are excluded for non-GAAP guidance estimates.
Please note that today's call is scheduled to last for 1 hour.
[Operator Instructions] With that I'll turn the call over to Shaygan.
Thank you Kathleen and thank you all for joining us today.
I'm pleased to be here on my 23rd day at the company and on my first quarterly conference call with you.
It's an honor to be selected as Chief Executive Officer of Juniper and to lead the company at this exciting time.
My first 3 weeks have been busy.
I have and will continue to engage with our customers employees investors and other key stakeholders.
I am actively reviewing the company's business lines operating model and capital structure.
We are building up a strong base.
We delivered record revenue this quarter good growth on year-over-year basis and a strong book-to-bill.
And I continue to see substantial opportunities for Juniper to grow and deliver value.
As you will hear shortly my initial priorities are centered around developing an integrated operating plan which is focused on profitable growth and shareholder value creation.
I will present the details of this plan to you more fully in a few weeks.
Before I hand it to Robyn I want to share with you why I made the decision to join Juniper and provide some insight into my and my team's initial priorities.
First I see a great opportunity with an iconic and pioneering company that has phenomenal assets technology and people that can address our customers' most pressing requirements.
Juniper uniquely leverages its strength in systems silicon and software to build the kind of networks that fits where our customers want to be and importantly where the market is evolving to: high performance agile secure automated context aware networks in an open framework.
I know this because I've been in this industry for 27 years as a customer in both the service provider and enterprise sectors.
I understand intimately their environments and imperatives for new revenue growth speed-to-market service quality operational and capital efficiency and how to put Juniper's portfolio to work in powerful ways that matters to customers.
To achieve this Juniper needs to be the leading provider of high-IQ networks and best-in-class cloud builder where the network is the most sensitive piece of the puzzle and has to be the first mover.
I intend to play an active role in guiding this transition.
But I'm also here as an agent of change.
Specifically I believe I can leverage my operational experience as well as my deep engineering and technology background to drive effective and efficient business operations and lead Juniper through the changes required to reach its full potential.
In short this is an outstanding platform for which to deliver a great customer value proposition and substantial shareholder value.
Since arriving at Juniper I've been interacting with the key stakeholders and analyzing our revenue streams including what customers are buying and for what use cases.
This information reaffirms my view of where the markets are headed and where Juniper has the most significant competitive advantage.
I can see our heritage secure high-performance networking open architectures and deep engineering talent converging with this future.
This I believe will position Juniper as a world-class provider of innovative high-IQ networks and cloud builder across our customer base.
This includes not only our strong base of service providers and public sectors customers but also newer customer segments such as Web 2.0 cable content and financial services as well as other customers who all want clouds and high-IQ networks.
I also recognize that we have work to do.
So my team and I are already hard at work developing an integrated operating plan that addresses 3 key priorities.
Firstly we are tailoring our strategy to focus on innovation that matters to our customers and where we excel bringing in the outside in customer imperatives.
I intend to restore Juniper's focus on thoughtful highly value accretive innovation and rebuild the get-it-done culture that unleashes the talent of our people.
Additionally we will implement a more efficient cost structure commensurate with our strategic focus and the competitive environment resulting in reduced costs.
I'll be taking a three-pronged approach: focused R&amp;D that matters radical simplification on automation and rightsizing.
We will do this in a smart way with an eye towards returns on investment and focusing on the cost drivers such as operational leading indicators.
This is something I've done before and I'm confident can be effectively implemented at Juniper.
Lastly we've been taking an in-depth look at our future cash flows and capital structure to assess how we can best return capital to shareholders while still maintaining the financial flexibility to invest for future growth.
We're actively evaluating the capital return policy which includes level of share repurchases and dividends.
While the company has been working on the areas of cost structure and capital return for some time since I've joined the team and I have been full-on on strategy cost structure and capital return and we resolve to deliver meaningful results in this area.
We will do this with an emphasis on disciplined execution on business fundamentals.
I look forward to announcing and sharing with you the details of our integrated operating plan in the next few weeks.
You have my commitment that the plan we present to you will be well considered specific and achievable.
I also look forward to spending additional time with our shareholders and analysts in the coming weeks.
And as we have said previously we are very interested to continuing a constructive and open dialogue with our shareholders.
I've been talking about what I've been doing and will continue to do in the next few weeks.
As I indicated Juniper had a strong Q4.
And I now hand it to Robyn to take you through the details.
Thank you Shaygan and good afternoon everyone.
I'm pleased to report that our Q4 2013 results reflect strong sequential and year-over-year revenue and earnings growth.
We had a record revenue quarter driven by strength in both service provider and enterprise.
Non-GAAP earnings increased sequentially due to higher revenues partially offset by high variable operating expenses.
In the fourth quarter we completed the restructuring actions that we announced 90 days ago.
We have been comprehensively analyzing our cost structure in the context of our strategy and as noted by Shaygan we will provide additional details on our integrated operating plans in the coming weeks.
Looking at our demand metrics we had a very strong bookings quarter with book-to-bill greater than 1 and net backlog at a very healthy $471 million.
While total deferred revenue was up $48 million quarter-over-quarter product deferred revenue was down $35 million sequentially primarily due to strong channel sales resulting in lower ending channel inventory and the timing of certain future feature releases.
Total revenue was $1 274 000 000 up 7% sequentially and 12% year-over-year.
Product revenue was up 8% quarter-over-quarter and 15% from a year ago.
Services revenue was also strong at $300 million up 5% sequentially and 2% year-over-year.
For the full fiscal year of 2013 total revenue was $4 669 000 000 up 7% year-over-year.
There were no 10% customers in Q4 or for the full fiscal year which reflects the continued diversity of our business.
For the quarter GAAP diluted earnings per share were $0.30 including a $0.04 pretax impact from restructuring charges and a $0.04 benefit from a lower tax rate.
Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share were $0.43 up $0.10 sequentially and increased significantly $0.15 year-over-year.
The sequential growth was driven primarily by high revenue and operating margins which were at their highest level since Q1 of 2011.
For the full fiscal year GAAP diluted earnings were $0.86 up $0.51 for the year.
Non-GAAP diluted earnings were $1.28 up by $0.43 or 51% year-over-year.
Now let me provide color on revenue by region market and product area.
Americas revenue was up 4% sequentially and up 13% year-over-year.
Americas service provider revenue was down 2% sequentially and up 6% year-over-year.
The trend in bookings however was notably different as we saw strong bookings in the Americas service provider business up more than 50% quarter-over-quarter.
We continue to see strength across the customer base especially in cable and content or Web 2.0 providers.
Americas enterprise grew strongly at 16% sequentially and 29% year-over-year driven by strong performance in both financial and federal sectors.
EMEA revenue was up strongly at 17% sequentially and 6% year-over-year.
The sequential growth was driven by strong service provider performance in Germany U.K.
and Eastern Europe.
EMEA enterprise also rebounded nicely in the quarter.
APAC increased 5% sequentially and 18% over Q4 of last year.
Both service provider and enterprise grew in the region.
While we are encouraged by the performance in the quarter there's still some work that needs to be done to get the region growing on a more consistent basis.
Service provider revenue for the quarter was $827 million up 5% sequentially and 12% year-over-year with good new design wins across all 3 theaters.
Enterprise revenue was $447 million up 12% sequentially and 11% year-over-year with broad-based strength across the customer verticals.
For the full fiscal year service provider revenues were $3 054 000 000 up 9%.
And enterprise revenue was $1 615 000 000 up 4%.
While the growth was across all customer segments content and cable were the key drivers.
It is worth noting that over 50% of the total revenue growth in 2013 came from the web services content and cable customers.
Now let me review our revenue by product area.
Total router product revenue was $618 million was up 1% sequentially and 16% year-over-year.
While routing revenue in the quarter was healthy bookings were very strong and grew over 20% sequentially and over 30% year-over-year driven by MX and PTX product lines.
In addition our newly released MX104 router is off to a solid start.
For the full year router product revenue grew 14%.
Total switching product revenue was a record $199 million up 35% sequentially and 36% from a year ago.
This was driven by strong sales of EX and QFabric.
And we are very pleased with the EX design wins with top enterprise and service provider customers and key data center wins which resulted in significant sequential and year-over-year increase in QFabric revenue.
In the quarter we also shipped the QFX5100 top-of-rack switch and expect it to be a very good contributor to our switching portfolio going forward.
For the full year switching product revenue grew 15%.
Total security product revenue was $157 million an increase of 9% sequentially.
Bookings also increased sequentially for the third quarter in a row.
We saw a moderation in the decline on a year-over-year basis to 7%.
As I've noted in the last couple of quarters we have begun to see good signs in this business and customer feedback is encouraging.
So while revenue for the full year was down by 16% the last few quarters of demand indicated that we are in the midst of a turnaround.
Our new products as designated by the Financial Analyst Meeting in 2012 including T4000 PTX QFabric MobileNext and ACX generated slightly less than $140 million in bookings in Q4 short of our goal of $150 million.
Since we set the goal we eliminated the MobileNext product and have also introduced a number of other new product lines not included in the above goal.
Moving onto gross margins and operating expenses.
Non-GAAP gross margins for the quarter was 64.2% compared to 64.4% last quarter and 65.3% a year ago.
Non-GAAP product gross margins were 64.9% down slightly over the last quarter mainly due to product mix.
Non-GAAP services gross margins were 61.9% up 0.6 points from last quarter.
Non-GAAP operating expenses were $539 million an increase of $10 million sequentially and higher than we expected.
This increase was primarily due to high commission-related costs due to the higher demand and an increase in legal expenses.
Absent these items our operating expenses would have declined sequentially.
I had mentioned at the last earnings call that we would be undertaking some restructuring and rebalancing actions in the fourth quarter.
We executed to that plan and eliminated 248 positions of which 112 were in R&amp;D and 95 in sales and marketing.
We ended the quarter with 9 483 heads down 231 heads or 2% sequentially.
In the quarter we took an $18.9 million restructuring charge of which $13.9 million was related to headcount action.
For the full year operating expenses were $2 102 000 000 or 45% of revenue down from $2 124 000 000 or 48.7% of revenue for the 2012 year.
This reduction was in spite of legal expenses in the year that were approximately $30 million higher than expected.
As Shaygan outlined we are focusing on making changes to the overall cost structure and will present that plan to you in a few weeks.
Non-GAAP operating margin for the quarter expanded to 21.9% compared to 19.8% last quarter and up strongly over the 18.2% last year.
The sequential increase was driven by higher revenue and an improvement in operating expenses as a percentage of revenue.
For the full year operating margin expanded by 23% to finish at 19.2% for the year.
The non-GAAP tax rate was 18.8% compared to 25.5% last quarter.
This improvement is primarily due to the geographic mix of income and some onetime items.
Looking at the balance sheet.
We ended the quarter with $3.1 billion of net cash and investments.
We generated strong operating cash flows of $390 million due to the higher operating margins and our continued focus on the cash conversion cycle.
Q4 DSO was 41 days down from 42 days last quarter.
Capital expenditures were $50 million while depreciation and amortization expense were $45 million.
We repurchased 11.8 million shares for $242 million at an average price of $20.47.
We had $1 billion remaining on our current authorization.
And as Shaygan previously noted we have been working on our capital allocation policy and we will present this strategy along with our integrated operating plan in the next few weeks.
Now I will review our outlook for Q1 of 2014.
As a reminder these metrics are provided on a non-GAAP basis except for revenue and share count.
We believe that the underlying demand trend for our markets will remain healthy in 2014.
We expect the March quarter to reflect typical seasonality in the top line.
And as a reminder we see a Q1 increase in OpEx as a result of the impact of FICA taxes.
We also expect legal expenses to continue at their elevated levels that we've seen since Q3 of last year.
Please note that our outlook for March does not include the potential impact of activities related to the execution of our Integrated Operating Plan which we will be sharing with you within the next few weeks.
For the first quarter of 2014 we expect revenues to range from $1 120 000 000 to $1 160 000 000.
At the midpoint this reflects a growth of 8% year-over-year highlighting our expectation of continued momentum in the underlying demand.
At the midpoint of guidance gross margins are expected to be in the range of 64% plus or minus 0.5%.
Operating expenses are expected to be flat to slightly down from the fourth quarter.
At the midpoint operating margins are expected to be approximately 17%.
This is expected to result in non-GAAP diluted EPS of between $0.27 and $0.30 per share and assumes a flat share count.
We expect a tax rate of approximately 25% assuming that the R&amp;D tax credit is approved by the end of March.
If it's not approved the tax rate may be higher by 1.5 percentage points and would impact EPS by about $0.01.
To summarize we anticipate overall demand to remain healthy and we will continue to focus on our innovation and our operational excellence objectives.
I would like to thank our employees for their continued dedication and commitment to Juniper's success.
And now with that let me turn it back to Shaygan for some final thoughts before we take your questions.
Thank you Robyn.
I'm excited to begin this journey with you and leverage my experience and expertise as a customer and operating executive and a technology innovator to drive value for all of our stakeholders.
And I very much look forward to meeting with you listening to you and presenting our Integrated Operating Plan in a few weeks.
Now to the operator for questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from Ehud Gelblum of Citi.
Research Division</strong> So a couple of questions if I could.
Clearly on the revenue side guys switching was incredibly impressive.
Strong as it's been in -- certainly from a growth perspective in [indiscernible] in forever.
QFabric seems to be doing very well.
Can you give some insight as to what got QFabric going now? And is it all top-of-rack switches is it just a -- I mean are they actually deploying real QFabric are they just using the top-of-rack switches instead of the EX? And was there a new sales plan was there a growth in the VAR channel was it new products or something that really -- what really got QFabric going? And if you can give us a little bit of insight on the security side which was nice and strong as well was it new products was it something of that sort to give us a sense? And then Shaygan you've been here now for I guess 2.5 weeks.
You said you're going to come out with a much larger plan on business model on the company going forward.
Clearly there's an activist involved that might be leading you to that.
Do you think that coming out in 5 to 6 weeks after you got there is the right time or do you -- would you actually rather have longer to take a look at the company and maybe come out with a plan maybe 12 to 15 weeks? And if so should we be looking for successive revisions to whatever you're coming out with as we go forward and you learn more about the company? Hi Ehud and good speaking with you.
I'll take both of those questions and I'll then pass them to Rami and Robyn they can drill in on your switching question.
So first of all I came into the company of course being 25 years in the industry as a technology builder and as an operator.
So I have a great deal of understanding of what the customers are really looking for and more importantly where they're going.
In fact that's connected to the switching question as well which I'll come back to.
And obviously I spent my last 3 years at an investment bank with my telecom expertise.
So I came in with a lot of thoughts and an understanding of the company.
And from the second that I was announced I've been sort of working myself and now -- since January 1.
So we're in full motion getting started here.
As far as -- and I'll pass to Rami -- I think the very first thing I did Ehud when I first came here I've been peppering everybody with questions of yes we know they bought they're buying a lot who's buying and why? And the why piece of it has pretty much reaffirmed what I thought from a customer angle which is people are buying pretty much the same things across multiple customer sets for the same reason which is everybody's trying to build what I call high-IQ networks and cloud ecosystems.
And as you see in our switching results and in our security results it sort of jumps out.
Those are key components of high-IQ networks and cloud ecosystems.
We'll have a lot more time to talk about this when I meet you all.
But I'll now pass to Rami to drill in on this Ehud's switching question.
Sure.
Thanks Shaygan and thanks for the question Ehud.
On the switching side first of all yes we're certainly very pleased with the results that we saw in Q4.
A couple of things that I will say over the last year or so you know that we have been in the process of essentially integrating our 2 separate switching business units.
As a result of doing that we not only streamlined the portfolio we actually simplified the portfolio and focused it on the most pressing problems that our customers are solving today.
So if you take a look at the result a lot of the performance that we saw is it came from that hard work in new products that we introduced just last year like the EX4300 the EX -- the EX9200 are both examples of those products.
And then from a market dynamic standpoint we have large customers now both on the service provider and the enterprise side that are building a cloud network that require the kind of high performance products that we are developing.
And they love not only the product themselves but the tie-in that we have developed with our SDN solution whether it be Contrail or with our partner at SDN solutions like VMware.
And just to add to that on the security side so we saw good growth sequentially in terms of security.
And we moderated the decline year-over-year.
What's driving that growth is the same that's been driving the bookings growth over the last couple of quarters and that is high-end SRX.
And it comes back to the theme that both Rami and Shaygan talked about in terms of data center and what we're doing with our service provider customers as well as our enterprise customers.
And so that is what drove the growth this quarter the high-end SRX.
The next question is from Amitabh Passi of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Robyn I was just trying to reconcile the commentary around strong bookings with what appears to be slightly subseasonal guide.
You're guiding revenues down 10% 11%.
I think the last 3 4 years it's been down 7% 8%.
So I would just love to get some incremental insight.
Was there some one-off orders you saw of revenues this quarter that you think won't repeat? Would love to get some clarity on the guidance relative to the bookings commentary.
Thanks Amitabh.
So on the actual guidance for Q1 at the midpoint of guidance what we're reflecting is an 8% year-over-year growth.
And our perspective is that the business is healthy across the board.
We've got good design wins in all 3 geographies across the business areas.
In Q1 it typically does take us a little time to get moving if you like but we're very pleased with the demand fundamentals that we have across all 3 areas of the business.
The next question is from Ben Reitzes with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> My question is for Shaygan.
Shaygan I wanted to ask have you -- within the plan not that you can go through the details but have -- is there any feeling about the product line at Juniper in your initial thoughts? Is there -- are you wed to any products or is everything deserve a full look? And then just my second part of the question if you don't mind is you went through the 3 points you'll address in the plan I was just wondering if accountability will be part of it and you will tell us how we can hold you accountable for whatever we do here to make sure that the promise is fulfilled sir.
Hi Ben.
And also hi to Amitabh I both look forward to seeing you both shortly.
So as far as the -- I'll start with the second one.
Accountability is one of the big tenets of our plan which is we're going to have a detailed Integrated Operating Plan which includes who's going to do what when are they do it and discrete milestones that we can track with tangible observables and make sure we are on course.
The reason it's integrated and we can't do this thing in piece parts as you well know Ben is that it starts with what is your strategy where can you win? That goes into what customers want.
Where are the markets going what are your strengths that you can win in those markets? We have to get that down and we've got a lot of progress already on that and there's good convergence and thinking with the team.
So that's on that.
That flows into your structure your company structure.
That flows into your cost structure.
And the cost structure you probably have an unfair advantage because you are from Barclays.
It sounds similar right? We focus on markets.
We focus on automation on process improvement 21st century industrialization you would know that term.
And then you'll focus on rightsizing to make sure we are sized right for the anticipated volume of the business.
All of these things gets wrapped in.
And then from there you flow into return of capital.
And you wrap it all in in an integrated plan detailed milestones with hard accountability and you can hold us accountable quarter-after-quarter for results.
And I'm holding my team accountable personally for their pieces.
And we know how to do this.
I've done this all my career.
And the team here is excited and energized to hit the afterburner button so to speak.
So be assured of that.
The next question is from Subu Subrahmanyan of The Juda Group.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to understand Robyn a little bit more on the routing side.
Routing growth you've mentioned orders had grown much more strongly than revenues.
If you could clarify that? And then U.S.
service provider down in traditionally seasonally very strong quarter can you just talk about what the dynamics behind that were? Yes.
Thank you Subu.
In terms of your question from a routing perspective we were very pleased with the routing performance in the quarter in terms of the sequential increase and year-over-year increase.
We had a 1% increase sequentially off a record quarter last quarter for routing and a 16% year-over-year increase.
And the strength of that is amplified in the bookings.
So and that's why I called it out.
The trend on revenue as you know sometimes follows the trend in bookings but not always the case in terms of the one quarter view.
So I wanted to add some color in terms of the bookings in routings which were very strong.
And as I said they were up over 20% sequentially and over 30% year-over-year.
So the team has done a very good job on driving the design wins to bookings in the quarter from a routing perspective.
The next question is from Paul Silverstein of Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two quick questions if I may.
First off on the security I thought I heard you call out the high-end SRX in particular is driving the security.
My question to you on security is given this sort of lumpiness of the high-end SRX and your efforts in the branch SRX can you share with us insight on the progress with branch SRX? And the other question on the service provider routing piece can you comment on the competitive landscape in pricing in particular Alcatel-Lucent and Huawei as well as the new Cisco core routers if that's having any impact in the landscape.
Thanks Paul.
I'll comment first on security and then I'll hand it over to Rami in terms of the competitive landscape in routing.
If you look at security we've had 3 quarters in a row now of good sequential bookings growth and it is coming from the high-end SRX.
As we've talked about that product set we sold both into service provider and into enterprise.
And the service provider buildouts are lumpy as we've called out before.
What drove the growth this quarter was actually enterprise was the predominant reason for the high-end SRX increase.
And we've talked about it in prior quarters in terms of some bookings momentum on the data center side.
But on the revenue side that is what was behind the growth in high-end SRX this quarter.
And so on the routing competitive dynamics Rami? Sure certainly.
The competitive situation for routing hasn't really changed.
This remains a very competitive industry in the -- so the way in which we compete is essentially the same.
In the Edge for example it's about having a single unified the most complete most scalable highest performance Universal Edge which is the MX which is really growing nicely for us and competing very well there both with incumbents and new players.
In the core yes there are different dynamics that are happening here.
Certainly there are sort of incumbents and new challengers that are coming in but I would say that that has not again changed the way in which we compete.
It's a high leverage strategy using our massive T Series deployed base.
It's an architectural approach to packet optical transport with our PTX.
And we're actually seeing some pretty good early momentum with the MX2020 for high service rich cores around the world.
In certain geos like you mentioned there are sort of geo-specific competitors like in Asia.
And there it's just about being laser focused on the areas where we believe that we have the highest amount of technical differentiation.
That's why we're successful.
The next question is from Simona Jankowski of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Shaygan I had a question for you.
You talked about your views on strategy influencing your approach to cost cutting and rightsizing the business.
And I just wanted to ask you if at a high level you still view the strategy as staying in both service provider and enterprise is the correct strategy for Juniper? And then conceptually how you think about businesses in which you may have a relatively small market share such as switching for example in which your share is about 3%? Is that the kind of scale that you think is sufficient to keep investing in the business? Simona good speaking with you.
Look forward to meeting you.
We have -- as part of the Integrated Operating Plan we have one big work stream around our R&amp;D.
And so I'm actually personally involved in that one too given my engineering background and the background in networks.
What I would tell you Simona is when I entered here -- so we do all the work and then we'll present to you in 3 weeks or 4 weeks or whenever that is in a matter of weeks.
But we -- what customers are buying the customers says we're looking at and I count them and this is sort of from my perspective coming from the customer side these are not necessarily a taxonomy that some of you may have used in the past.
So you've got our -- a great service provider customers which is like AT&amp;Ts and Verizons and BT and DT and down the chain.
You have those sets of customers.
Then you move into the cable and content and then Web 2.0 customers like Google and Amazon and the rest.
And then you move into special enterprises yours being one Goldman Sachs and all the companies that are represented on this call.
Those 4 sets of customers with a little bit -- maybe a few others like federal government and so forth they pretty much are all coalescing around the same set of things as far as networking is concerned which is clouds and high-IQ networks.
Rami talked about and Robyn talked about the key components MX QFabric PTX SRX with the big brain called Contrail.
Essentially that's what people want to buy because they're trying to solve some very specific business problems that we'll get into when we sit down with you and go over it.
So the markets are changing for a set of these customers and we just have to make sure that we will be able to win and win big in these markets given our heritage of high performance networking only really pure play company out there in IT networking in high performance in open architectures carrier-grade super big SRX defending the cloud and so forth and so on.
And in fact this was my view when I came in as a customer being on both sides operating obviously at Barclays CIO CTO on Verizon.
And in fact the buying -- or what people are buying and the mix is sort of confirming that.
Now as I've said it last quarter this has to continue but it has certain logic to it.
So I think that's the -- that's what in my mind if that helps.
The next question is from Simon Leopold of Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I want to ask what I think is a pretty quick one and then maybe more involved.
First for Shaygan if you could just maybe articulate how the activists have either influenced you or not influenced you starting in on your job.
And then I wanted to follow-up on the guidance in that you highlight a number of areas with very strong bookings so that leads us to try to figure out what's weak or are you suggesting a much better than seasonal growth rate in the June quarter? Well thank you for the question.
As I said I've been in this business now exactly 27 years.
And so I come in with a lot of views on where the markets are going and what the customers want.
And I think that is -- since I've been actually a builder in these companies so I have great appreciation for building.
And since I've had tens of thousands of people in my organization from an operating perspective I was the heart of sort of operations.
So I come in with a good view of what is a well-run operation.
I come in with a view of what the customers want.
And I come in with a view of technologically what's the art of the possible and where the markets are going.
So I sort of took this job because I saw great opportunity at this phenomenal company sort of ready to go to put in play 27 years of my experience.
So that's on that end.
On the other end obviously I am on a big listening tour and our shareholders is one of the most important stakeholders.
I've been listening to shareholders I continue to do that and the investors and the sell-side and the buy-side analysts and of course our customers to pull all this in.
And we also have urgency of action because every month that passes 2014 I want to make sure the new Integrated Operating Plan is in place the company is behind it and we can move and drive shareholder value and make sure that our customers get to solve their business problems which is all around how can I generate more revenue? How can I bring down my operating costs? How can I make sure I don't get hacked? And so forth and so on.
These are -- when you put a customer hat on these things -- when you actually live and sweat the details in a customer these are -- get a different gravity.
So I'm actually very confident that we will be able to come up with a great Integrated Operating Plan and put it in motion and really solve our customer problems and in the process drive great shareholder return.
And just hold on for a few weeks and we'll unveil it.
So on the guidance question -- in terms of the midpoint of guidance as I mentioned before is an 8% year-over-year growth which is actually -- reflects our confidence in the strength of the underlying business.
Our view is that there is a sequential -- sorry seasonal pattern to our Q1 business particularly on the enterprise side.
And we saw in the fourth quarter the enterprise actually drove a lot of the year-over-year growth.
And so what I want to make sure of is that we take that into account.
That's what we've taken into account.
The underlying demand trends are healthy.
Q1 always has a seasonality to it and we wanted to appropriately reflect that in our guidance.
The next question is from Mark McKechnie of Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Shaygan welcome.
I certainly look forward to working with you.
A very refreshing approach here.
I had a few questions.
First your background at Verizon and Barclays 27 years in the business.
I'm kind of curious I don't know if you can expand a bit on your interaction with other carriers and enterprises.
I'm sure you work with them but are the meetings you're having with customers new engagements or you're meeting with familiar people? Whatever you can say there.
And then on the routers I know people have beaten on this a bit but I wanted to get a sense.
I mean that was really strong bookings 20% sequentially.
I wanted to get a sense for areas of strength where you attribute that.
I mean is this the PTX big orders here for the U.S.? Are you participating over with China Mobile? Is this Europe? Is it the T4000? I mean what can you tell us about that? And how you see that playing out through the year.
Sure Mark and hi great to be speaking with you.
So yes somebody asked me that question the other day and said "How do you feel?" And I said "Well I feel like I'm back home." In the sense that many of the accounts I go to they are friends and colleagues from the past.
Now as I said I've been here 27 years so some of the friends and colleagues have retired but there's still quite a bit that are still there.
And so yes I know many of my friends have been there for a long time.
We've worked together on the buyer side of things.
We have a similarity in thought across the planet.
I actually used to chair the CTOs for telecoms a number of years ago when I was at Verizon.
And by the way on the enterprise side I used to chair the CIOs for a number of years.
And so I have a lot of friends there as well.
And in fact my rotation at Barclays which I have to say was completely phenomenal and magical I've gotten to be even closer to my CIO friends at the banks and financial services.
So yes it sort of feels in the family but of course as time goes on I become more of the supplier and they become more of the buyer.
But at this point it's very much like coming back home.
As far as the routers and PTX is concerned I'll ask Rami to give us some color on that.
Yes sure.
Happy to.
Thanks Mark.
So on the router side I think one of the really encouraging things about the booking was just the diversity in who bought.
So we saw strength in our large telcos even our smaller Tier 2 telcos our cable operators and also the Web 2.0s.
So that diversity is something that we track and something that we consider as very healthy.
From a product standpoint very specifically MX continues to do very well and the particular applications here that we're driving are convergence of Edge and aggregation networks to simplify operations for our customers data center interconnect to connect clouds together.
And then the other area where we saw some real strength from a booking standpoint is in PTX.
As you know PTX is somewhat of a different architectural approach.
So the sales cycles are long and what we're seeing now are the results of the design wins that we had several quarters ago now turning into sales.
And the last thing I'll just say is in each of those product line the MX and PTX we introduced new specific products in Q4.
We introduced the MX104 that takes all of the sophisticated capabilities of the MX down to a very small power efficient form factor that's ideal for smaller operators and now into the access navigation part of the network.
And similarly the PTX3000 that takes the transport capabilities of that platform and takes it into the metro transport area.
So we're expanding the applicable footprint for each of these product lines.
The next question is from Brian Marshall of ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Shaygan congratulations on the new opportunity.
Obviously some of the fastest-growing workloads on the planet are housed in a lot of the hyperscale guys.
And you gave some comments on the conference call with respect to how much that and in conjunction with some other businesses like cable are growing for you over 50% of your incremental growth over the last 12 months.
But I guess I was wondering if you care to take a stab did your hyperscale business actually grow in line with what we estimate is kind of 30% CapEx growth year-over-year? Or perhaps maybe what percent of your total revenue is coming from this group? 5% 10% something like that? Any color would be helpful.
Brian good to meet you.
A really good question.
This -- the Web 2.0 and by the way the cable and the content businesses are also dear friends of mine for many years got good insight into those networks have worked with them for many years.
And I'll ask Robyn to take that question around their cloud that they're building and their growth.
Go ahead.
Yes.
I think Brian in terms of the overall full year what we wanted to give you color on is where the growth was coming from.
And the comments that I made was that it was -- those areas of web services content and cable actually accounted for more than 50% of the overall growth of the company for the 2013 year.
And I think the comment that Shaygan made is very applicable because it's a cross-sector view of those types of companies.
And even in some of our traditional companies there are faster growing parts of that company's revenue with us or their CapEx spend with us if you like than other parts.
And so that's what we were trying to convey with that comment that there is faster parts of the market that are growing even in some of the traditional areas as well as some of these newer opportunities and newer type companies on the web services and cable side.
The next question is from Rod Hall of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Shaygan welcome aboard and congratulations.
So I just had a quick one I guess for Shaygan.
Can you help us understand how in prior leadership positions that you've taken on you've thought about the structure of your leadership team? And just as an example we've had a person take over our company recently as the new CEO and he said "I like to have 1/3 of the people existing managers 1/3 internal promotes and 1/3 external." So just any rules of thumb that you think about when you think about structuring your leadership team? And also just timing on that how soon do you want to make critical hires if you have to make them? And then I wanted to ask Robyn if -- Robyn could you talk to us a little bit about government revenues and what happened in the quarter? I don't think I heard you comment on that.
So if could you give us any indication on what federal and non-federal revenues did in the quarter? And then Rami I wanted to just go back to your commentary on the switching and also Robyn's commentary on the routing order growth.
Can you help us understand what the concentration of those orders is? Like in switching was it a handful of big customers or is it spread pretty broadly? And then also on the routing orders is that a few big customers or broadly spread? Thanks Rod.
Thanks for the question.
A broad question.
As I said I've had many many years in this both Verizon and Barclays and many -- tens of thousands of people.
And I think it's at the top level it all starts with what are we trying to do where are we trying to win.
So this is why it's really important to get the focus on product innovation and our markets really right because that flows in what I used to call strength on strength.
Have excellent people positioned in the areas that they can put -- push the ball for us forward through excellence.
And then it's working as one team as one Barclays -- I'm sorry one Juniper one Juniper one Juniper.
I've had one Verizon one Barclays one Juniper I'm consistent.
And then as you talk to the people about me it's all the same right? Because you have success and you repeat that.
And then you have execution with no excuses and metabolism execution with no excuses.
I look for people who are detail oriented they're hands on not a lot of layers massive focus on the customer massive know-how internally and really have that outside-in focus brought infused with an inside-out art of the possible camp on customer's door and execute.
And so that's sort of the management philosophy.
And now I'm going to pass in to Robyn for the second part of the question.
Thank you.
Thanks Rod.
In terms of the government business I did actually call out that the government area -- enterprise was actually very strong in the quarter.
We had good sequential and year-over-year growth in enterprise all up.
The federal team did an outstanding job this quarter.
If you remember back to the guidance that we called out on last quarter I was expecting federal to be weak this quarter.
And actually the team did a really good job and actually they had a good quarter in Q4.
Clearly the federal business the government business is down for us for the full year year-over-year which also underscores the fact that enterprise absent the full -- from a full year perspective absent government has actually been growing very nicely all year.
The other commentary on the fourth quarter was that financial services was strong and that's a global comment.
So from my perspective a good enterprise quarter a good service provider quarter and a good federal quarter in Q4.
Go ahead Rami.
The only thing I will add is I already added some color on the diversity of customers on our routing side.
On the switching side there too we saw a good distribution between enterprise especially at the financial services Web 2.0s and also service provider.
We have said in the past that the service provider component of the switching business can be lumpy.
And for this quarter or Q4 I should say we saw real strength in both SP and enterprise.
I think that just based on the -- what we're seeing in terms of demand metric I'm pretty confident about 2014.
The final question comes from Brian White of Cantor Fitzgerald.
Research Division</strong> Shaygan welcome.
I'm wondering what type of forum are we -- are you introducing the Integrated Operating Plan you said 3 to 4 weeks.
Is this an analyst type meeting or is this going to be a conference call? That's question number one.
Number two maybe talk a little bit about what Juniper is seeing in emerging markets.
A lot of peers are complaining about emerging markets specifically China.
Maybe give us just an overview of what Juniper is seeing in emerging markets.
Thanks for the question.
On the forum actually we are working that as we speak.
So stay tuned on that.
As far as the emerging markets Robyn you want to take that one? Yes.
In terms of emerging markets for us and there are many different emerging markets around the world for us.
What I would say at a high level our strategy is quite different in some of the emerging markets.
You mentioned for example China.
What we've done at the company is be very focused in terms of the areas where we are most differentiated in that market and Rami mentioned that before.
And so our approach varies by market.
We're very surgical in some markets where we focus on those areas where we have the most differentiated and we win opportunities in those markets.
So from my perspective our emerging market strategy is different.
We sell through partners in a number of different locations through the -- across the world.
From a technology perspective the technology that we sell is consistent and it's in high demand in different parts of the world in terms of that focus.
Okay thank you.
That unfortunately is all the time we have today.
Shaygan would you like to have a closing comment? Yes.
It's -- I'm thrilled to be here and I'm really looking forward to seeing all of you very shortly and have a much deeper conversation about everything we talked about and hear your views of Juniper and our industry.
So look forward to seeing you all.
Thank you.
Have a great day.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Juniper Networks First Quarter 2014 Financial Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Kathleen Nemeth Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you Ms.
Nemeth.
You may begin.
Thank you operator.
Good afternoon and thank you everyone for joining us today.
Here on the call are Shaygan Kheradpir Chief Executive Officer; Robyn Denholm Chief Financial and Operations Officer; and Rami Rahim Executive Vice President Juniper Development and Innovation.
Please remember when listening to today’s call that statements concerning Juniper’s business outlook economic and market outlook strategy future financial operating results and overall future prospects are forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors including economic conditions generally or within the networking industry changes in overall technology spending and spending by communication service providers and major customers the network capacity requirements of service providers the timing of orders and shipments manufacturing and supply chain constraints variation in the mix of products sold customer perception and acceptance of our products rapid technological and market change litigation the potential impact of activities related to the execution of Juniper’s integrated operating plan and other factors listed in our most recent 10-K and the press release furnished with our 8-K filed with the SEC today.
All statements made during this call are made only as of today.
Juniper undertakes no obligation to update the information in this conference call in the event facts or circumstances change after the date of the call.
The purposes of today’s discussion we will also review non-GAAP results.
For important commentary on why our management team considers non-GAAP information a useful view of the Company’s financial results please consult the press release furnished with our 8-K filed with the SEC today.
For the detailed reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP results please see the Investor Relations section of our website.
We’ve extended today’s call to an hour and a half in order to accommodate more questions.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Shaygan.
Thank you Kathleen and welcome to all of you who are joining us on today’s conference call and webcast.
I joined this iconic company because I saw a unique opportunity to optimize the organizational’s phenomenal assets deep customer relationships great technology and fantastic people to address our customers’ most pressing needs high performance agile secure automated context-aware networks all delivered in an open framework.
It is also my belief that we can deliver improved results for our shareholders by working in a more efficient structure with greater customer connectedness and accountability for performance.
These are the areas I’m going to cover with you today.
First a review of our quarterly results and second an update on our IOP and the steps we’ve taken to achieve our stated target of $160 million in annualized OpEx savings.
Our quarterly financial results demonstrate that we are on our way.
On a year-over-year basis we delivered 10% revenue growth and expanded our non-GAAP earnings per share by 21%.
And we achieved this while creating our integrated operating plan and kick starting an execution.
In addition today AT&amp;T announced that Juniper has been selected as a strategic vendor to help deliver their Domain 2.0 vision to deploy a User-Defined Network Cloud.
This is an honor for our company and one I know we are all very proud of.
I want to recognize our team that collaborated so well across the company in support of AT&amp;T.
Clearly this is an exciting and important time for us as a company and I am thrilled to be on this journey with my colleagues around the world.
I am pleased with our Q1 2014 results which reflect continued momentum in the business.
Importantly our revenue was well-diversified.
We saw continue demand from our service providers across Web 2.0 cable and carriers in all geographies as well as from the Americas Enterprise customers reflecting significant opportunity to capture share in the meaningful high-growth segments our Cloud-Builder and High IQ networking across the globe.
Robyn will give you more color on the quarter in a moment but before she does so let me share with you the progress we’re making related to IOP.
I am very impressed with the thoughtful and disciplined approach the team has taken to ensure the success of our IOP.
We have already demonstrated our ability to execute quickly as one unified organization or what we call one Juniper.
I want to thank all of my colleagues around the world who have been responsible for implementing this plan and delivering the outstanding results this quarter.
So here is an update on our progress across the four dimensions of IOP.
First we have sharpened our strategic focus on the highest growth opportunities in the networking as customers migrate to best-in-class cloud environments and High IQ networks.
The demand for highly scaled sophisticated secure automated context-aware networks and cloud environments requires the ensemble of agent core routing switching security virtualization capabilities and network intelligence and control all working seamlessly together in an open framework.
That is the value proposition that Juniper alone can offer.
This strategy is focused on the continued diversification of our revenue with a deeper focus on a set of targeted customer segments that are in the build cycle for High IQ networks and cloud environments.
We see four clear customer segments that fall into this category carriers cable and content providers where the network experience is fundamental to their business.
Web 2.0 companies who are also at the forefront of building advanced secure intelligent networks.
A set of enterprise customers like financial services and national governments who are building large-scale internal clouds and other enterprise customers who view the network as mission-critical to their business.
This strategy is clearly resonating with our customers.
In addition to today’s announcement with AT&amp;T we have secured a very important design win with a major global financial services company in transforming their network for best-in-class cloud builder and high IQ attributes.
Second we have implemented a One-Juniper structure to create a more focused connected agile and execution-oriented company centered around the fastest growing opportunities in the marketplace where we see the market evolving too and equally as important where we excel as an innovation driven company.
So let me tell you what we’ve done to execute towards the One-Juniper initiative.
On the go-to-market side we have evolved our model to one that is focused on targeted industry verticals.
This is the next stage in our evolution from a geography and sector-based model.
We have consolidated our advanced technology teams with a focus on being true centers of excellence around cloud building and high IQ networks.
We are becoming more deliberately focused on a key set of partners who deliver these solutions and see them playing an important role in furthering our commercial business going forward.
This structure allows us to be more connected to our customers than ever before to ensure we anticipate and co-create with them to meet their ever-changing needs driven by their highly dynamic end markets.
I think of this as an outside-in customer imperative fused with Juniper’s inside out approach to innovation.
On the R&amp;D side of the house you will hear more from Rami shortly about the new consolidated organization positioned to capitalize on Juniper’s engineering expertise across routing switching and security tightly linked with our CT organization.
This new consolidated R&amp;D structure will optimize our engineering resources across product lines and leverage our products in a more holistic and differentiated fashion.
Third we are on schedule to eliminate $160 million in annualized structural costs from our operations with a clear glide path from second quarter 2014 to first quarter 2015.
We have a detailed execution plan within each category of delayering automation and focused innovation that matters.
These efficiencies will strengthen the company by focusing our resources on high growth areas of the market.
Importantly we have a governance model in place to ensure complete accountability.
Our newly formed cost innovation board reporting directly to me meets regularly to ensure we stay on track with execution.
We continue to work with an independent consultant to provide outside expertise as needed.
And our entire leadership team is unified and fully committed to appropriately managing our cost structure.
Robyn will cover our cost actions in more detail during her remarks.
Fourth in February we introduced a new capital allocation program which preserves flexibility for future growth while returning capital to our stockholders via buybacks and dividends.
Robyn will review the progress we’ve made on this program during her remarks as well.
In summary I’m very confident in our integrated operating plan.
The granularity of the execution plan and the level of oversight give us the confidence to achieve the goals we committed to in our IOP.
Our strategy is the right one centered on meeting our customers’ most pressing needs with innovation that truly matters to them.
We are committed to executing on the goals set up in February including reducing our cost base and significantly increasing our operating margin profile to deliver profitable growth and shareholder value.
In closing this is my commitment.
We will remain relentlessly focused on disciplined execution and we’ll continue to update you on a regular basis.
Thank you for your time today.
Now I’ll pass the call over to Rami.
Thanks Shaygan.
I would like to first share details of our new Juniper development and innovation organization or JDI and then provide insight into the key drivers behind our first quarter results.
As Shaygan discussed a key component of the IOP is to streamline our organization and our product portfolio combining our best-of-breed products for the world-class cross-functional innovation and solutions to solve the most challenging and most meaningful used cases for our customers.
In the first quarter we made a serious of related organizational changes to ensure our R&amp;D and go-to-market functions are focused on cross-functional execution attainment of JDI strategy and business plan.
This included merging Juniper’s three product marketing teams into a single integrated marketing function and creating an integrated business operations team consolidating what was once two separate teams into a single team focused on driving JDI execution.
These changes are consistent with our One-Juniper approach to reduce unnecessary complexity increased clarity ownership and improved efficiency.
In addition this new structure focuses our R&amp;D resources on areas of innovation that matter most to our customers and partners high IQ networks and cloud.
In short these changes will give up the opportunity to truly focused on resources and double down on value creating technologies.
For example we have identified several pre-revenue generating project and are currently transitioning those resources and investing in technologies that matter most to our customers.
Juniper remains firmly committed to our existing security switching and routing businesses.
As Shaygan mentioned each plays a vital role in our high IQ network and cloud builder strategy and they areas where we excel as a company.
Now let me shift gears and share with you some insight into the performance drivers behind the first quarter results.
Routing product revenue was up 7% year-over-year driven by strong performance in MX.
Our increasing focus on customers building smarter networks capable of generating faster return on their capital investment is paying off.
Our MX Universal Edge continues to win in the market and this quarter we enabled many new customers with these capabilities.
These customers include large carriers in North America EMEA APAC and Latin America.
This quarter we will begin taking orders for the world’s fastest rich IP line cards with the MX2020 clocking in at over a half of terabit per second.
Core was down this quarter mostly as a result of the lumpiness of build-up by large operators but I’m pleased with current pipeline for core routing.
Also industry trends continue with service provider investment in Edge and Metro are outpacing that in core.
Clearly the MX is benefiting from that.
We secured a number of new PTX logo wins in the past few weeks alone and that give us confidence in the future.
In Q1 we shipped the industry’s highest density packet optical solutions with new Gig-E DWDM line cards for the PTX.
We had a very strong quarter in switching with product revenue up 46% year-over-year following a 36% year-over-year growth in Q4 2013.
including web services financial services and infrastructure-as-a service provider with differentiated solution focused execution and high responsiveness to customers.
During the first quarter we had wins at top tier web services companies large content providers global banks including a recent win with a major global financial services company and with high growth public cloud service providers.
We’re encouraged by early interest and the sales ramp of the recently introduced QFX5100 top-of-rack switch in both enterprise and service provider applications.
We are making good progress in our security business.
While total product security revenue was down 2% year-over-year we are seeing continued strength in our high-end SRX business with double-digit year-over-year growth as data center consolidation and clouds drive the need for performance and scale.
We remain fully committed to our security business focusing on what matters the most of our customers and where they are spending.
It’s important to note that security is a critical element of and fully aligned with our strategy and high IQ networks and cloud.
We’re seeing good traction with our 100 Gig-E SRX I/O Card launched in the fourth quarter of last year.
Juniper remains the only Firewall on the market with 100 Gig-E connectivity leading to wins in large cloud environment.
For example in the quarter we had a win at a major Web 2.0 company whereas 100 Gig-E was a critical differentiator.
Q1 also saw the successful introduction of new innovation to embed security in the cloud with a Firefly product suite.
We closed a key win in a top financial services firm on the strength of features like high availability and better operational efficiency through automation support.
So with all that said I summarize as follows.
We’re a laser focused on achieving our IOP goals and have taken concrete steps to do so.
The results of these changes is an optimize One-Juniper structure which is focused connected more agile and execution-oriented and I’m confident that we’ve got the talent and technology in place to deliver.
At this point I will turn it over to Robyn.
Thank you.
Thank you Rami and good afternoon everyone.
I’m pleased to report that our Q1 2014 results reflect good year-over-year revenue growth and significant continued earnings expansion.
Revenue grew 10% year-over-year and non-GAAP earnings per share grew 21%.
We also continue to see strong demand signals.
This sets the stage for what we expect will be continued year-over-year earnings expansion.
I’m very pleased with the diversity of our revenue.
We saw year-over-year growth in all three geographies with good revenue growth coming from our newer target areas within both the Service Provider and Enterprise segments.
We continue to see strong demand from our Web 2.0 and cable customers.
The trend that we saw in 2013 has continued in the third quarter.
In the quarter revenue growth was driven by strength in our switching and routing products and continued growth in our SRX-based security products.
Before I go into detail behind the results of the quarter.
I would like to review the financial impacts related to our integrated operating plan.
On April 2 we disclosed restructuring charges related to the cost-saving initiatives that we have begun under our IOP.
In Q1 we booked $122 million of restructuring and other charges.
We announced a head count reduction of approximately 6% and the vast majority of the affected employees have already been notified.
In Q1 the head count related restructuring charges were $28 million.
Non-cash asset write-downs of $94 million included $85 million related to the cancellation of the development of the application delivery controller technology and $8 million related to inventory.
As we have stated we are committed to achieving an annualized operating expense run rate reduction of $160 million.
We are making good progress towards this target.
These changes are expected to be structural.
We anticipate the mix of savings to be as follows approximately 60% related to head count savings 20% related to program and project reductions with the balance coming from facilities consolidation and other savings.
The fiscal 2015 we expect an expense to revenue ratio of approximately 39%.
Please refer to our chart in our supplemental slide deck posted to our website of our expected quarterly operating expense path over the next four quarters.
In addition to our IOP cost reduction activities during the quarter we announced robust and comprehensive capital allocation strategy.
I’d like to walk you through the actions we have taken which highlight our strong balance sheet and cash flow potential.
As part of our commitment to return a minimum of $3 billion of capital to stockholders over the next three years.
We initiated $1.2 billion accelerated stock repurchase program of which $900 million worth of shares were initially delivered in Q1.
We also raised $350 million of debt allowing us to fund the ASR in a way that is consistent with our liquidity policy.
Now I would like to move into a discussion with the Q1 results.
Looking at our demand metrics we begin the second quarter with a very healthy backlog.
Our book-to-bill in Q1 was slightly below one which is typical of our Q1 trends.
Product bookings were healthy with a year-over-year growth rate exceeding the revenue growth rate.
Total deferred revenue was up $174 million year-over-year and $85 million sequentially.
Product deferred revenue was down $14 million sequentially due primarily to lower channel inventory.
Total revenue was $1 170 million up 10% year-over-year and down 8% sequentially.
The sequential decline is in line with our typical seasonal pattern.
Product revenue was up 12% year-over-year and down 10% sequentially.
Services revenue was $294 million up 6% year-over-year and down 2% sequentially.
There were no 10% customers this quarter reflecting the continued diversity of our business.
For the quarter GAAP diluted earnings per share were $0.22.
We recorded a GAAP restructuring charge of $122 million which resulted in $0.25 impact on GAAP earnings.
This was offset by a $0.33 gain from the sale of minority equity investments.
Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share were $0.29 up $0.05 year-over-year and down $0.14 sequentially.
The year-over-year growth was driven primarily by higher revenue and operating margins.
In the quarter we had a positive impact from the reduced share count of about $0.01.
Now let me provide color on revenue by region market and product area.
All regions reflected year-over-year revenue growth.
Overall Americas revenue was up 15% year-over-year and declined 1% sequentially.
Americas service provider was up 13% year-over-year and 7% sequentially.
As a reminder our service provider revenue includes carrier cable and Web 2.0 customers.
Americas enterprise increased 22% year-over-year and declined 15% sequentially.
The strong year-on-year growth was led by federal and financial services.
EMEA revenue was up 2% year-over-year and down 18% sequentially.
Of note we saw strong year-on-year performance in the German and UK market.
APAC increased 9% year-over-year and decreased 16% sequentially.
These results reflect service provider growth year-over-year in both Korea and Australia.
Service provider revenue for the quarter was $783 million down 5% sequentially and up 10% year-over-year with growth across all three geographies.
Enterprise revenue was $387 million down 13% sequentially and up 12% year-over-year due to broad-based strength in the Americas and public sector spending in EMEA and APAC.
Now let me review our revenue by product area.
Routing product revenue was $550 million down 11% sequentially and up 7% year-over-year.
Revenue was driven by strong performance in MX while the new MX2000 series and the MX104 continue to gain traction and experience solid growth sequentially.
This growth was offset by a decline in T-series revenues both sequentially and year-over-year.
Total switching product revenue was $192 million up 46% year-over-year and down 3% sequentially from a record Q4 2013.
This was driven by strong sales of both EX and QFabric product families.
And we are pleased with demand for both areas.
Total security product revenue was $134 million down 15% sequentially and 2% year-over-year.
This is due to the continued decline of the oldest ScreenOS products and non-Junos-based products now represent less than 15% of our security revenue.
The SRX products grew 13% year-over-year led by good growth in the high-end SRX.
Moving on to gross margins and operating expenses.
Non-GAAP gross margins for the quarter was 63.5% compared to 64.2% last quarter and 64.6% a year-ago.
The sequential decline was largely due to a decrease in services gross margins.
Non-GAAP product gross margins were 64.8% down one-tenth of a point from last quarter and seven-tenths of a point from a year-ago.
The sequential decrease reflects anticipated lower volume whilst the year-over-year decrease is primarily due to mix.
While the pricing environment remains competitive we remain focused on innovation and cost improvements in our supply chain.
Non-GAAP services gross margin was 59.7% down 2.2 points sequentially and down 2.4 points year-over-year.
The declines are related to high support costs and increased spares.
Non-GAAP operating expenses were $542 million about what we anticipated due to an increase in legal costs.
Non-GAAP operating margin for the quarter was 17.2% reflecting a year-over-year expansion of 1.5 points due to higher revenue offset by lower gross margins.
The non-GAAP tax rate was 25.6% compared to 18.8% last quarter.
This change is primarily due to the expiration of the federal R&amp;D tax credit and one-time items that were reflected in the prior quarter.
The GAAP tax rate was 25.3% compared to 18% in Q4.
The increases is primarily due to the net gain on the sale of minority equity investments and the expiration of the federal R&amp;D tax credit.
This is partially offset by the impact of restructuring other charges.
Looking at the balance sheet we made substantial progress on our commitment to return capital to our stockholders.
During the quarter 33.3 million shares under the ASR program were initially delivered and retired for an aggregate purchase price of $900 million.
These actions reduced the average diluted share count to 497 million down by 9 million shares sequentially.
We ended the quarter with $2.1 billion of net cash and investments.
Net cash declined by approximately $1 billion sequentially primarily due to the ASR.
We continued to generate strong operating cash flow of $126 million down sequentially due to the seasonally lower income and annual payments for incentive comp.
Onshore cash and investments represented 29% of total growth balance.
In line with recent trend DSO was 46 days and capital expenditures were $57 million in the quarter.
Depreciation and amortization expense was $46 million.
Now let’s look at our outlook for Q2 of 2014.
As a reminder these metrics are provided on a non-GAAP basis except for revenue and share count.
As demonstrated in our recent results we are executing well and the assets we are making to drive further execution improvements are taking hold.
We see underling demand in the markets we serve is healthy and we expect to continue the year-over-year expansion in earnings.
For the second quarter we expect revenues to range from $1 200 million to $1 230 million.
Gross margins are expected to be 64% plus or minus 0.5%.
Operating expenses are expected to be $520 million plus or minus $5 million and we’re well positioned to deliver on our cost reduction commitments.
Operating margins are expected to be a healthy 21% plus or minus 0.5%.
And this is expected to result in non-GAAP diluted EPS of between $0.36 and $0.39 per share assuming a share count of approximately $480 million.
We expect a flat tax rate versus the third quarter.
As a reminder and as previously disclosed in Q2 and throughout the rest of this year we expect to book additional restructuring charges the majority of which will be related to facility and other asset write-downs.
To summarize we anticipate overall demand to remain healthy and our product portfolio continues to be strong.
We are very focused on executing on our integrated operating plan and continuing to drive innovation.
Now let’s open the call for questions.
Thank you.
We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is from Brian Marshall of ISI Group.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks.
This is Stephen Patel calling in for Brian.
Could you clarify in your OpEx guidance about 20% of the cost savings coming from actions taken to programs and projects.
Have those actions already been announced and how should we think about any associated revenue growth impact from those cuts? Yes Stephen for Brian thanks for the question.
We have a very deterministic glide path that we shared with you and we track these – our cost saving cuts very rigorously almost on a weekly basis.
We have taken a lot of the actions it’s actually front loaded and – but the savings of these will come – the actions are taken but the savings will come through the second quarter and the third quarter.
Most of the head count related cuts have been already taken and we’ve executed those.
They will come – some of them already done some of them will take longer because they are in regions which just takes longer to get off payroll.
And let me see if Robyn you want to say anything else on that? No I think you answered the question well.
Thanks Shaygan.
Okay.
Next question? Thank you.
The next question is from Ben Reitzes of Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Yes good afternoon.
A few if I may Could we just parse out that legal expense and what costs would have been in the quarter without it and how much is recurring? I think that will help lend visibility to your plan and credibility behind that cadence you have on the slide.
And then also Shaygan if you could just talk about the sustainability of the switching momentum what are you really seeing there and how sustainable is it because obviously 46%.
I think that need everybody’s model for the second quarter in a row.
And what you see in the competitive dynamics there? Thanks a lot.
Sure Ben.
So the first question I’ll ask also Robyn determine.
Most of the upward pressure we saw on the first quarter was due to legal on G&amp;A.
I will ask her to parse that I suffice it to say before I pass the Robyn.
And then I’ll come back on the switching.
Is that we are committed and we see our way clearly to the $160 million cost cuts as laid out in that charts that we have published between now and first quarter 2015 quarter-by-quarter.
So for example we would be at $520 million in second quarter and $510 million in the third quarter and less than $500 million the first quarter 2015.
We are quite clearly to that we’ve got most of the actions front loaded and executing.
So you shouldn’t worry about the 160.
And in terms of the legal.
I’ll pass it to Robyn and then I’ll come back on switching.
Thanks Shaygan.
In terms of the legal expenses that Shaygan mentioned they were above what we were expecting for the quarter.
If you look at the G&amp;A increase quarter-over-quarter a substantial is $7 million to $8 million.
And the majority of that in fact more than that increase is due to legal in the quarter.
Some of which was expected and some of which wasn’t as I mean in prepared remarks.
If you look year-over-year in terms of OpEx we have been making progress and that is in pre-out recently announced actions that we have been taking.
So if you look at our OpEx is a total as a percentage of revenue is about 46.3% of revenue in the first quarter of 2014 versus 48.9% for last year.
So we have been making some progress even though the legal expenses did increase more than we were anticipating in the quarter.
And if I can thanks Robyn.
I’ll take the switching.
Obviously we had we are very pleased with the switching quarter.
I can tell you and I have been engaged since I have been here with a lot of conversions with the customers of what they are doing why they are doing and specially in regard to switching.
It’s actually quite fascinating.
It’s a lot around Cloud-Builder and is putting in place our switching with our routing and security as an ensemble and our controller and Contrail into sort of many accounts.
Now every single one of them that I have been engaged if you’re actually sophisticated implementations and each company is doing something quite interesting.
And so that is also lend itself very well to Juniper’s DNA on sitting with the customers and cranking.
So they love features in Cloud-Building like in service software upgrade that’s a fantastic feature do you love.
They love things like micro-bursting which gives them lot of telemetry and very fine-grained levels.
They love the fact that they can write get the on some switches.
And on and on and on.
And they like the fact that they are open high for scale with sort of no extra package and they can do a lot of things that each of them once they are slightly differently.
And the fact they work very well with MX and SRX.
And so I think that is in cloud building which is a sophisticated build and the cloud by the way is people said is both private and public obviously you got the Web 2.0’s but on private and carriers in large enterprises like financial services and like Rami do you want to say anything else on the switching? And expectation setting?  Yes I think you covered most of it I’d just say that the team has been working really hard over the last year and so when we consolidated our switching organization we streamline simplified our portfolio and we implemented as number of capabilities from fabric technologies IQ and a number of different things that Shaygan mentioned has made our portfolio including switching routing and security really appealing to both enterprise and service provider.
Yes I would just say one other thing its Rami hit as a nail on the head where the leverage engineering between routing and switching actually quite phenomenal and why customers buy in a switching it’s not your grandfathers switch and security is your grandfathers this is a new world and all the leverage engineering we are getting from Junos really giving us a leg up and of course open net derivatives since you talk about.
Okay great.
Next question please.
Thank you.
The next question is from Ehud Gelblum of Citi Group.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys thanks I appreciate it couple of things but I am curious to hear with the AT&amp;T win you have been talking about AT&amp;T for a very long time a number of products.
And just understanding what is difference about I mean your way of dealing with AT&amp;T going forward.
And that what as you said before you talk about T series as AT&amp;T as well MXs.
And so just to understand I think what is how does that change? Shaygan you mentioned the pre-revenue projects that you are getting rid off and of course that you are trimming the cost structure you are finding a number of these can you give us some example beside from the right opt for the riverbed deal where you can give us best example and that’s things you have gotten out of so we can understand this kind of put a red basket box whatever targets around kind of understand the different areas that you are getting about and identify any other areas kind of that you can that you think you still might be looking toward.
And then finally Robyn again it’s been at the legal thing and again brought up last conference call and then it’s brought up here again.
But can we just be specific in terms of what was the actual legal amount this quarter? what we are expecting I know there was some controversies last quarter on whether its $15 million this quarter you expecting from legal.
So we assume that it was $15 million plus 7 to 8 you actually spent $23 million this quarter on legal.
But you expected $15 million if you are going to just give us the Q1 legal where that goes in Q2.
So we can compare what that looks like in Q2 and just levels that us a Q4 number as well and that’s a lot but that really it’s kind of set that bar as to what’s the ups and downs in legal and kind of how that is falling through those three quarters that would be great.
Thanks.
And Ehud I think that was like 18 questions rising there but … It was three main topics broken down to a category part… I know I know I am just kidding I am just kidding yes yes.
So on AT&amp;T as I am sure you are familiar to have this program called domain 2.0 which is called the user defined network cloud.
And essentially they are pushing their network into the next phase which is around clouds and it’s around a lot of attributes of the cloud.
So what are those attributes they obviously is a carrier class nature of it which you are very good at Fort Knox security which is very very good at.
Multi tendency and in terms of the high IQ piece of it it’s a lot around automation for efficiency and effectiveness in terms of virtualization and so forth and so on.
Service chaining traffic movements a lot of STN so a lot of the attributes that you put together to create a modern cloud based architectures they have been very clear this is what they want.
And they – we are very fortunate to be sort of selected for these attributes.
And we have by the way products in all of these categories and they work and they work very well each other.
So and I believe I don’t know this to be a fact but I believe that would a first re-routing and a supplier announced I don’t know but that’s so I think we’re very pleased with that.
What was the other question? Some of the project that we might be investing from Rami has that.
Right.
So I’ll pass it on to Rami so and he can go more but I would just say that with high IQ looked at our product lines are very carefully through operated charge in terms of return on investment in terms of the match to cloud builder on high IQ our strategy so fact that to say we are focusing on growth and we are focusing on accretive work that matters to our customers.
And based on that we have – you saw decision on ADC and as far as normal course of business we do continuous mark-to-market to evaluate our products and projects.
And we are transitioning our portfolio to technologies that match our strategy and on our workforce and where can get leverage engineering Rami do you want to say a few more words on that.
I’ll just add that we on an ongoing basis are always in the process of evaluating the ROI expectations the market conditions of all of our project and making decisions based on this analysis.
And the IOP was really no exception to that we did take a look across the board of all of our projects and we did identify a number of pre-revenue generating projects that we will transition resources off of and to put them on projects that are more highly aligned if you will with our strategy things like STN and NFB like many of our forward thinking customers are thinking about today and on legal Robyn.
Yes.
Let me just add on the project side the projects we evaluate with not just R&amp;D Rami went through some of the R&amp;D projects.
We’ve also evaluated other projects that we’ve been doing on the infrastructure side within the company as well and some of those will I’ve seen targeted for completion or preparation if you like as well.
So it’s an across-the-board review of our project across all three of the areas.
So specific to legal I’m not going to give you the dollar amount but I will point you to the G&amp;A line that you can see in the press release and on the various filings that we’ve done.
And what you can see that G&amp;A is up significantly year-over-year it’s 39% year-over-year increase and the legal expense increase is more or less the entire increase.
So you can say that it is – has been a large amount.
Having said that as Shaygan mentioned we are committed to achieving the $160 million of cost reductions on an annualized basis exiting Q1 of next year.
Thank you.
And we are co-listing all our resources around driving profitable growth and connecting report and growth.
Thank you.
Okay.
Next question Manny? Thank you.
The next question is from Jess Lubert of Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
LLC</strong> Hi guys two questions maybe just a follow-up on your earlier switching question but given some of the cloud momentum and big wins you mentioned on the call do you think Q1 is a new base off of which we should see sustainable sequential growth moving forward or would you expect some lumpiness there? And then I was hoping you could help us better understand some of the dynamics driving the uptick in support costs and spares that impacted service margin in the period when you think about the likely range of service margin moving forward.
Should we be thinking about numbers getting back into the 61% to 63% range we’ve seen over the last few years or should we expect service margin to remain closer to current levels? Thanks.
Sure.
I will pass this question.
The first one is about forward momentum on cloud building.
Just suffice it to say that we – we are pleased with the momentum and the pipeline of what we see.
Rami do you want to give some more color to that? Yes I would be happy to thanks Jess.
So as you know our Switching business has an enterprise component where we are selling to enterprise IT private cloud and data center machine critical campus combination as well as service provider applications including things like cloud data center intra-POP infrastructure connectivity certain parts of access infrastructure.
And I have said in the past that especially the service provider components of that business can be lumpy.
In Q1 we actually saw strength in both enterprise and service provider.
So can you expect this level of performance going forward I would say that’s probably unrealistic.
Our goal is to continue to take market share and I’m very confident in our ability to do so.
And Robyn do you want to take that.
Yes so in terms of the services gross margin Jess the gross margin in the quarter was 59.7% it has been quite some quarter since we’ve been below 60%.
And the reason for that as I mentioned in my prepared remarks was that the support costs were higher in the quarter and we also had increased bearing.
We normally get increasing bearing when we have our new customers or new contracts or new product introduction.
And so the timing of those do vary from time to time in terms of when we get those spares on board.
So we do expect the services gross margin to improve from this low level of 59.7% in the quarter.
Great.
Next question please Manny? Thank you.
The next question is from Jeff Kvaal of Northland Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hi thank you very much and happy to be back in business.
Could I ask a couple of questions one is from a high-level? There has been some talk about our core routing refresh cycle and I think talk about some of the carriers running hot.
There seems to be now your commentary was more focused on growth from the edge than the core.
If you could sit some light on that I would to be delighted.
And then Robyn for you could you clarify a little bit lower products deferred revenue outlook the channel is that driven by seasonality is that driven by a pullback from certain areas of business what goes into that reduction in the channel? Thank you.
Okay on the first one I’ll ask Rami to comment the hedge dynamic versus the core dynamics which is obviously different.
And can you just focus on the core please.
Sure thanks Jeff.
But you’re right the strength we saw on routing was primarily back in the hedge and primarily driven by our MX product line.
And that’s essentially a play out of the strategy that we have been developing on the MX product line around the universal edge.
So in carriers and service providers are looking to consolidate their services onto fewer networks and to provide virtualization to enable business residential in video and mobile type services we really have a fantastic weapon to compete within the form of the MX.
On the core you’re right core was in fact down I think the biggest things that we saw in Q1 was primarily that of lumpiness in spending and in the builder.
I say that because if you take a look at Q4 of last year the core investment was actually quite okay.
And then if you look at our pipeline if you will.
They’re again I think what you see somewhat encouraging.
There is in fact also an industry trend which we had mentioned in the past where the bulk of the investments and routing is still happening in the edge and in the metro.
And that of course is putting pressure on those parts of the network the edge and the metro which the MX benefits from and to some extent it can elevate some of the pressure from the core.
So that might push out the need for investments in the core of it.
The best thing that Juniper can do in a situation like this is to execute on a high leverage R&amp;D strategy for a product that satisfied both market segments edge and core and to be ready for the cycle irrespective of where it actually start to occur.
Thank you Rami and Robyn you want to talk about deferred revenue question? Yes Jeff in terms of the channel inventory it is typically the case in our Q1 that there is a seasonal reduction in the inventory.
But I would also so we had a strong channel quarter as well.
So a strong finish all the way through to the end of the quarter through the channel.
And as Shaygan mentioned in his prepared remarks we are doing a lot of business with our channel partners in terms of particularly on the enterprise but also on the service provider area as well.
And so we have a strong focus on partnering and on the channel so.
And the inventory volumes will lower as we exhibit the quarter.
Thanks.
Okay great.
Next question please.
Thank you.
The next question is from Sanjiv Wadhwani of Stifel.
Please go ahead.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong>  Thanks so much.
Two questions perhaps if you look at the router outlook right now versus a year ago.
I just wondering if you guys could make a comment on sort of how things stand now versus a year ago.
And as far as the cost of announced in early April.
Any color on where they happened and specifically what product areas where impacted that most in those cuts? Thanks.
Sure Sandeep.
So again I’ll start and then I’ll pass them to my colleagues here.
So on routing what’s going on I’ll give you the top-level dynamic as I see them.
First of all you’ve got obviously that – well everybody knows which is the bandwidth growth which is driven really by mobile and content concentrated by video there is pressure there.
Now that actually that pressure people usually think about it in the carrier networks spread – it splashes also into data centers and clouds and also some interesting ways.
So that’s an end-to-end pressure and routing is very much front and center on both ends of this.
Then you’ve got Rami mentioned the second one is convergences and convergence is in two forms one is on the access sides that’s things like P&amp;G and then there is now finally a good move towards wireless and wireline network convergence and when that happens and you’ve got the beautiful machine called MX which is right at the front center and PTX.
And then the key part of this is more and more every month that passes we all are getting stuff as a service that is an undeniable fact and that – to do that you need to build this giant cloud systems and High IQ networks a lot of the attributes we’ve been talking about and there it’s much more a layer 3 discussion and as soon as you have layer 3 discussions you land on routing you land on routing you land on MX PTX and T series and all the rich both the rich functionality on the agents there is so many we can’t even count and then super high scale at the core.
And so all of these three things we don’t see that these pressures are abating relative to last year.
Rami do you want to sort of give the overview on it? The only thing I’ll add Shaygan is that if I look at service provider again with that definition of web services and telco and cable then the market in fact should be a healthy market for us in this year.
So it really comes down to the competitiveness of our products and our ability to actually go and satisfy the pressures that they are seeing and that’s where I’d just reiterate that I’m actually quite confident in product and the technology that we have in the market and what’s coming up in the roadmap.
Very good so as far as the second question was around cost cuts right? Yes so the cost cuts I would say all of them will make our company stronger going forward because they are around taking bureaucracy out delayering the organization the duplicating repetitive effort and as fact so basically all of those that aren’t closed about our customers like its grade I can go directly back to back with your best people be it on go to market and engineering.
Its going sort of back to way it was in a bigger fashion so that’s good.
The biggest leverage is actually amongst all it.
Its not that they have put teams together for example in engineering there is all sorts of leverage work that we can get across the board in one – one are in the organization as an example.
And sharpen your focus on things that matter which is on cloud building and High IQ and things frankly that we are not going to focus on either because its not really our core competency or its not where the market is going and we’re going to focus on growth.
So that really their focus and the cost cuts I’m certain of it they are going to make the company stronger going forward for the following reasons.
There is a lot of work its not only in R&amp;D in go to market having focused on those verticals that are in the business of cloud building High IQ networks and where our networks are mission critical and little deepening relationship putting our entire portfolio in play in interesting ways to take share more valid share out of those accounts.
And then be a little bit deliberate on partners much more much deliberately partnered dependent and then the whole organization is one Juniper focused on the strategy.
So the cost cuts should really be viewed in that way that they that out there – they will actually make the company stronger.
Robyn do you want to say anything?  No I think you’ve covered a lot.
Also earlier in the Q&amp;A Rami went through that in R&amp;D we had cut some projects like the agency that were non-revenue generating and therefore and not aligned.
So there was a thorough review done in terms of both projects that would not revenue generating and also not aligned with the cloud builder in High IQ strategy and so the teams has done a very good job on executing and spacing those types of projects as well.
It’s not accretive and it’s not aligned to the strategy and its not leverage engineering it doesn’t really survive.
Okay great.
Next question please Manny.
Thank you.
The next is from Simona Jankowski of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
I had a couple of questions on the cost side and on the revenue side as well.
So first on the cost side I think you talked about some cuts and consolidation you did in R&amp;D operations and marketing or there any outflow cuts to sales? Yes they were Simona there is cuts in sales and marketing as well in fact if you look at our slide deck we put the glide path in there from Q4 of 2013 quarterly OpEx and we’ve also put a chart that shows by area R&amp;D sales and marketing and G&amp;A.
What we expect the profile of our go forward OpEx to be and again the profile from where we are coming from which is the Q4 2013 numbers versus the Q1 2015 estimates that we have in terms of the post IOP post 116 reduction on an annualized basis.
And so there are cuts across the board G&amp;A R&amp;D and sales and marketing.
Yes.
Of course in G&amp;A Simona there is operation.
Robyn side exactly right on the sales front we really are focusing both on service provider and enterprise those segments that we mentioned.
We are gathering our forces around those segments so they can go deeper and more focused and frankly all those customers sets they want the same things that for example in AT&amp;T and Verizons which is depth and with a lot of technical hands on skills.
And so that’s really the sales motion and getting that focus will also gives us synergies which is in another way of what Rami is doing win he is doing go to market Rami is doing good to get the leverage on engineering and making sure we’re focused on cloud building and high IQ network.
So you should think of it more as a focus on debt and leverage rather than sort of cuts that weaken you.
And Simona do you have a follow-up question as well.
Manny can you open the line again for Simona I believe Simona had a follow-up.
Sorry and just one moment.
Thank you.
Yes thank you very much.
Yes I did have a follow-up question on the revenue side so you talked about de-emphasizing or cutting some of the resources for three revenue project does that imply that you are still focusing on some early revenue projects like Junos Pulse the wireless LAN business and the access business.
And really the bigger picture question here I’m trying to get to is you’ve given us a lot of hopeful detail on the cost saving side but as we tried to think about what is the sustainable revenue growth profile for Juniper now with this set of businesses in the next two to three years how should we think about that and part of the missing piece is that we don’t really know if you’re still pursuing some of the enterprise edge on access kind of businesses that I just mentioned? Yes Simona this is Shaygan again.
I would just summarize that we are not providing competitive information on this call.
So that sort of point number one we are not drilling into that zone.
On the cuts the cuts are structural they will remain with us.
And in fact this is a muscle that the organization is building which is good we can always get more efficient all the time and we will leave it at that.
And when we have more news about anything in terms of products we will share with you.
But right now suffice it to say we’re focused on Cloud Builder and High IQ.
And Rami do you want to say anything else there? No I think that summarizes it.
I will just – I just want to reiterate what I 100% committed towards switching or routing and our security businesses.
I think we got a great team great technology fantastic roadmap and now one that is very highly aligned with our forward looking strategy with Cloud Builder and High IQ.
Yes and I just want to remind you as well that the integrated operating plan is about also focusing on the top line revenue growth.
It’s not just about cost reductions.
We’re talking a lot about cost reductions today because it’s the first time we’ve unveiled our glide path and the detail of the cost reductions.
But what – we’re about is actually growing and expanding our operating margins and our earnings over time.
And we know that to do that we have to invest in the right innovations and the right market that really our customers need and want.
And that will actually ultimately drive our revenue growth as well which we’ve been doing very well over the last six quarters or so in terms of revenue growth.
Great.
Thank you.
Manny next question? Thank you.
The next question is from Mark McKecknie of Evercore.
Please go ahead.
Great thanks.
Hi Shaygan and crew I appreciate you get me in here.
So a couple of questions one last quarter your router orders were pretty strong up 20% quarter-on-quarter 30% year-on-year.
So looking at the near-term and the context of your guidance it looks like about 5% sequential at the midpoint and we heard a lot of comments on the Switching business would you expect a little bit of growth next quarter quarter-on-quarter for routers what type of margin impact that might have on the mix? And then the second question is on the AT&amp;T award first off congratulations on that but I wanted to know who you competed against their.
It sound like this is more for sort of public cloud business as opposed to some of the NFP.
I want to understand that and I’m assuming this is QFabric in some of your Contrail on a controller.
But on that front are you going to work with someone else’s controller VMware someone else or is this a full QFabric and Contrail type solution? Thanks  Sure first thanks for congratulating us on the AT&amp;T.
We are all very excited about that.
And by the way on the AT&amp;T question you should reach after them about that this scope of it.
Suffice it to say it’s a material and it’s really that Domain 2.0 kind of work that they’ve been talking about.
As far as routing is concerned the pipeline the design wins and the backlog they are all pleased with those numbers for routing.
And as both Rami and Robyn was said there is a different dynamics between edge and the core and the lumpiness of the core and they are out in the first quarter and all the activity around hedge that is happening under first quarter.
But the pipeline we are pleased both from pipeline and design wins and the backlog on routing anything else Rami you want to add that.
I’ll just add for Rami don’t forget that last year in Q2.
We had a sizable amount of our enterprise routing with the government customers.
So just there in mind with that when you look at our result.
Having said that we are very pleased with the strength of routing particularly in the service provider space in terms of pipeline and design wins that we have as Shaygan mentioned.
So we are actually expecting Q2 on the service provider side to improve in terms of routing in the second quarter.
I would just agree with that.
I would say I’d expect continue to strength in our edge portfolio and keep in mind that we are continually enhancing these product offering itself that we are starting to take orders now for new line cards that’s going to give us a real good performance increase in addition to new software capabilities.
On enterprise routing was actually good for us in Q1 and I see a good pipeline there.
And then finally I provided some commentary on the core the pipeline for the core coupled with some wins that we’ve had recently in our PTX in fact it’s our brand new logo for us.
Are going to start to pay off now is that going to happen this quarter or the next quarter is difficult to say usually there is a certification cycle that takes a good couple of quarters maybe even three quarters to play out.
But based on all of that all of the above I said have pretty good confidence in Q2.
Gotcha thanks.
Shaygan nothing on the competitive front for this AT&amp;T when I guess will find out? Yeah I mean I should really situate – I don’t have average ability like that all I can say is the engagement with them has been fantastic and very forward looking across the board all the things.
There was a question I think also about Contrail and I don’t want to talk about anyone specific customer but I will say that network function virtualization is a very hot topic today as many of you already know.
We’re engaging with the number of our customers on that topic and showing them proof-of-concepts of technology that we have that essentially couple.
Our high performance services on the edge on the MX for example along with the layer 4 to layer 7 service is that virtualize on general-purpose processors.
Now that solution has to be nicely coupled together and provided in a way provide seamless service experience across both physical and virtual and Contrail plays a fundamental role in that.
So Contrail now in fact over just a past short period of time has gone into life deployments and we have gone to probably around 2 to 3 dozen engagements and live trials with some customers around the world.
Okay great.
Next question please Manny.
Thank you.
The next question is from Amitabh Passi of UBS.
Please go ahead.
Hi thank you ask couple of quick questions on your security segment.
This is a segment that has been quite volatile although we are seeing year-over-year trends improve.
I was wondering if this is a segment that you actually believe can grow in 2014 particularly when we are hearing greater competitive pressure from companies like a F5 particularly in the service provider community.
And I also wondered on Shaygan do you requiring incremental investments in this part of the business and can you support that given all the OpEx rationalization that you’re doing? Yes thank you for the question.
So I’ll go through it.
The quick version of the answer is that yes we expect our security to grow year-over-year now what I have to tell you is securities are paramount importance to our strategy because you can’t really as I said have a cloud be a Cloud Builder and not have security.
In fact it’s much more important than before.
We are pleased with our performance and growth in our SRX and Firewall both in enterprise as well as on service provider we have as you know decline in our ScreenOS the declines are – we had 6 ScreenOS flagship design it was 20% of the base in that 15% so that’s diminishing.
As you said correctly it is I would believe it is stabilizing it is too be minus 18% minus 7% minus 2% year-over-year and we expected to return to growth by the end of this year.
Having said all that we are not satisfied of where we are and we need to execute better we acknowledge that and now that we have security in are coming R&amp;D team.
I think we are going to get a much better leverage engineering and with everything else we have.
And as you well know security market is changing security is moving into the core cloud security is virtualizing everywhere else.
Security is in desperate needs of high analytics.
Because when you have a cloud and High IQ networking have a lot of valuable assets in it.
And so having analytics to defend especially against things like military spider attack is very important.
And of course you have to and need to have high efficacy.
And we have a lot of capabilities now we have to execute better they all under one R&amp;D organization and that’s our focus is to return back to year-over-year growth.
Rami do you want to say anything else on that?  I will just add we saw a great growth in the high end that direct double digit growth and I don’t think that’s an accident that the result of a lot of really hard work had gone into improving the session scale the performance the efficacy of that solution something that we are proud of and I think we demonstrated what we can do when we focused on the rest of the portfolio and that’s exactly what we’re in the process of doing right now.
And it’s going on the last thing as I says that there will be a high leverage approach to doing so.
The work that we’ve done in the high end absolutely applicable for the rest of our portfolio.
Next question please.
Operator? Thank you.
The next question comes from Rod Hall of JP Morgan.
Please go ahead.
Yes hi guys thanks for taking my question.
I just had a follow-up question on earlier question and then other one for Shaygan.
So I just wanted to see if Robyn or Rami you guys would give us the order volume growth rate for routers in Q1.
And then kind of related to that and that $471 million of backlog exceeding the year.
And I know you don’t usually get that number except for the Q4 but it sounds like I mean your book-to-bill is such as just slightly less than one is it right to think you’re carrying pretty much as similar level of backlog on its Q2.
And then for Shaygan I just Shaygan could you comment on I think you made comment before about how you’re reallocating technical resources for large accounts and trying to just get more effective the way you put together Juniper’s product range when you talk to these big accounts or looking at architecture.
I just wondered if you could comment on how far through that you are and whether you have learned anything from those changed engagement levels with some of those accounts? Thanks.
So Rod.
I’ll start on the order booking commentary.
So as I mentioned in my prepared remarks the order booking overall for the company was higher then our revenue growth and that’s very good thing for Q1 actually.
And as you know typically when we are going into the next quarter a lot of the backlog is our routing products.
And so as Shaygan mentioned earlier that is one of the reasons why we are confident in our routing in a pipeline because we have visibility to that we also have visibility to the design wins and we have a very good portfolio in terms of routing across the board as Rami mentioned.
So I think that answers your question with that our overall bookings rate was higher than our revenue growth in the quarter.
And Rod on your second question.
Yes I have embedded deep personally with our teams in many of these accounts that’s have been here across all those segments that we mentioned.
And I have tell you once your are underground and you see the action and you see all the interesting workloads and very new and non-linear workloads that our customers are trying to handle and the problems were trying to solve on the innovation side on the quality side revenue generation automation and like it is absolutely paramount that we have our in the best and brightest teams on go-to-market on operations on technical and engineering shoulder-to-shoulder with them.
And so this now have you heard this saying people have heard me to say this before have been through.
These cycles when we are going through non linearity or inflection points in tech.
We are absolutely going through one of this five years from now history if is a judge we normalize and then we can go normal formations and every can do there little bits and brigade can begin of delivery.
This is not one of those times if you sit in with the cloud providers Web 2.0 carriers and so forth and so on cable financial services and the like.
They are trying to solve stuff that frankly they had never seen before in terms of sophistication complexity scale why is that the case is because everything is more as a service delivered to the end market continuously and that requires a different level of scale and sophistication and every company has a different starting point every company has a different enduser market that they are trying to satisfy.
Every company is trying to get an edge in this new world that they all see.
And so being in force and in-depth in these companies to ensure you don’t miss those nuances and we can execute on them and normalize those features in your product line is absolutely crucial.
Now the great news about Juniper is this is what Juniper is.
They are a builder company by DNA so it’s a fantastic opportunity for all of us in Juniper to engage and grow up our sleeves.
And I have to tell you I’m having a fantastic time being at the shop floor of all these accounts and it’s phenomenal what’s going on on the ground.
I’ve been in this business almost 30 years in networking and this reminds me of the days when I first came out of college and I saw this it’s very cool it’s very exciting it’s very sophisticated and the world out there really desperate to meet all these innovations that we are an increasingly in place to deliver and to do that you have to have different skill and know-how and be able to take customers from one side of the river to the other side and build a bridge for them.
So yes long answer to your question.
We are super excited to Juniper about this opportunity.
Okay great.
Next question please? Thank you.
The next question is from Brian Modoff with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
I have a couple of questions if I could.
First in terms of the cutbacks in R&amp;D do you worry about any of those cutbacks impacting some of your next generation ASIC developments for your kind of a MX PTX products coming out next year? Second can you talk about kind of work here in the STN framework what your least fine strategy is do you plan right now is 110 gig switches top-of-rack switches that are driving your revenues? What’s your strategy on 1040 can you talk a little bit about that please? Thank you.
Sure.
So let me assure you we are not cutting any muscle out of R&amp;D that matters to our strategy and to our customers in fact it’s the opposite.
We are focusing our forces around a set of things that we think truly matter and we’re putting all the force rather than be distributed and distracted.
So we should view IOP as a focus on sort of big things that matter and obviously ASIC know that you just mentioned is one of them.
On the switching side I have Rami chime in obviously we cannot give competitive information where we’re going.
But I can tell you what the customers tell me about their switching line is that it already has a lot of capabilities like I mentioned in service software upgrade micro bursting Virtual Chassis which people love and so forth and so on.
And in terms of its fees and feeds Rami do you want to take that? Yes sure.
First I’ll just reiterate what Shaygan said about R&amp;D from the guidance running R&amp;D it’s pretty much most of the cuts we’ve made for structural nature were a result of the decomplexifying if you will the organization streamlining things so I am not concerned our ability to compete.
And in fact you mentioned silicon I am very excited about the silicon roadmap that we had in the works right now in Juniper.
On the FDN framework in fact part of the reason why you’re seeing the growth that we have right now in switching is preciously because of the fact that we are building a set of switching building blocks.
These are building blocks that have a number of different applications the data center and cloud automation being a very important used case.
So we are building directly into our switches the kinds of automation visibility controllability and very importantly open this there are customers absolutely like.
And that give us the ability to work with great partners like VMware where we are going in addressing private cloud like virtualization environment for many of our customers but also with contrail where for example in public cloud scenarios or in network function virtualization.
There is a really nice seamless if you will tie in between the controller and our switches.
This is very much a 10-gig story today but the products were offering are all 10-gig 40-gig and there is in fact going to be this migration overtime to 40-gig.
So work that well setup to take advantage of that 10-gig to 40-gig migration that’s happening in the market.
Okay great.
And we do have time for couple of more questions.
We’re coming up on the hour so operator next question please.
The next question is from Jason Ader of William Blair.
Please go ahead.
LLC</strong> Thank you.
I just wanted to follow-up on an earlier question around the identification of other user product lines that you might be exceeding and I know you want to give competitive information which I totally respect.
But I guess the question is have you identified other use in product lines at this point or you still in that process.
And then secondly just for Robyn can you give us the guidance for interest and other income now that you have in your debt flowing through the balance sheet? Rami you would answer the question Yeah sure.
I’ll start.
The question of did we actually take action already the answer is yes we have gone through the analysis we’ve evaluated the projects that we are already undertaken and we have in fact reallocate resources of the project that all pre-revenue and that has already given us an ability to start to focus on some of the really important strategic initiatives around cloud High Q network function virtualization FDN that’s just very meaningful to our customers and I just kind of leave it that.
Thanks Rami.
So on the interest side yes clearly the interest rate borrowings that we made in the quarter will add to our interest expense in the quarter next quarter.
So we expect that we had reasonably low interest quarter for this quarter is just under $10 million.
We expected to be in the $14 million to $16 million range for the next quarter.
Okay great.
Next question operator.
Thank you.
The next question is from Kulbinder Garcha of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Thanks and most of my questions has been answered.
I just wondered a broad one for Rami in the routing side we’ve seen historically just cycles in this business driven partly by product repurchase sometimes by macro.
I am just thinking as we come to this repurchase can you speak about how it’s different and how this won’t be a situation where by from now with difficult comps looking at significant deteriorated revenue line what’s different of value which is - what that top two or three things that come to mind that would help? Okay yes sure Kulbinder I’d say again you have to take a look at the market opportunity and the service provider spend in light of cable and in light of web services.
And also telcos of course and each of these have a very different set of drivers and the cable space for example there is a huge amount of demand on the network because of the video traffic.
In the web services space its things like cloud data center interconnect and peering technology.
And telcos the things like consolidation of different network functions into fewer networks that are capable of providing a multitude of different services.
Network function virtualization and so forth.
These are trends that have been in the market for some time and they will continue.
Now there might be ebbs and flows if you will of spending in different parts of the market like in the core or on the edge and different architectural approaches that our customers take might in fact put more pressure on certain parts of the market or network then in others.
And again I will just go back to my statement that is just really important for us to make sure that we’ve got the solutions and the product that can satisfy those architectural trends irrespective of the way that they in fact play out or timing of how they play out.
If you look at all that and you look again at the broader definition of the service provider that I talked about I think that the opportunity for us to have a good revenue its healthy growth in the TAM and a great product portfolio help that took advantage of it.
Okay great and operator we have time for one more question before we close today.
Thank you and the next question is from Paul Silverstein of Cowen and Company.
Please go ahead.
It’s always great to be last you can ask unlimited number of questions.
Let me start off.
Hi Paul.
Hi Kathleen appreciate you taken the question.
A couple of questions if I may first of can you all talk about pricing trends in switching co-routing and edge routing.
In switching how much of the growth is new customers how much is from existing customers and with the respect to existing customers how much of that growth is from a refresher or upgrades to the new 9200 relatively new 9200 platform from the older EX platforms and how much is more organic.
And that on to security piece can you set some insight I know you told us that the old NetScreen OS point products are now 15% down from 20% but with respect to the SRX.
How much of the revenue is from the enterprise SRX which you have been struggling on track and how much is from the higher end product that’s been doing so well as we try to understand going forward.
One last question which is I know the legal expenses questions has been asked a lot but my simple question is if then when legal expense comes back to normalized level is that over and above the OpEx reductions that you have projected in the IOP or is that part of the IOP projections? Okay so we’ll go one at a time quickly.
We start with the IOP question we have a very rigorous disciplined execution path 4160 we are committed to 160 – and so that’s we leave it at that so that I think it’s the moving parts we are going to hit 160 in the glide path as Robyn went through and we put on our slide back.
What was the other question? Okay on pricing Robyn do you want to take a cover? Yes Paul as I mentioned in my prepared remarks it is a competitive environment overall.
And what you could see now in gross margin – our product gross margin we are actually doing quite well on that.
Year-over-year we saw a slight degradation due to mix but quarter-over-quarter actually was only one can stand and as you can see we are moving into different categories and that type of thing and our gross margins are doing very well.
And so that’s because we are focused on innovation and differentiation with the product set.
It’s also because we are focused on reducing our costs over time as well and as a company we’ve had a huge focus on that over the past four to six quarters.
Rami do you want to add anything in terms of competitiveness.
No that’s it.
We focused on the parts of the market where the discussion with the customers certainly in both pricing but it’s not purely about pricing it’s about a multitude of things and capabilities in addition to pricing and that’s what we do I think quite well.
And then I think that last one and maybe I’ll ask Robyn and Rami as well is I mean I coupled a last sort of two questionnaires this company the diversity revenue now across those segment it’s just not that one segment it is multiple segments and then when you overlay the dynamics of these segment with all the different types of workloads that they are trying to handle as they build their clouds in High IQ networks.
It’s a – one size doesn’t fit all right and we see that sort of in switching security and routing like your questions on switching mostly new customers but its frankly when you look at the that the type of workloads it is not sort of commodity closet switches.
It’s actually quite interesting sort of the used cases that we handle.
Rami do you want to sort of take the switching question and I think that was also part of your question.
I don’t have an exact figure in my head of what the ratio is it’s both.
I mean we love selling to our customers chassis that are partly populated with lying card whether they have been in switching and routing or security because we are reserving self base that we can go and populate over a period of time and there is a lot of that going on.
But as we also mentioned in the prepared remarks and earlier in the Q&amp;A we’re winning global bank we’re winning web services companies that are all leveraging our switching routing and security products and that just adds on to our business some it’s the combination.
So on the security side I can answer that for you Paul in terms of our Junos Space firewall security product you were right it was less than 20% a year ago and now it’s less than 15% that’s related to the non-Junos Space products.
In terms of the SRX products they grew 13% year-over-year and in terms of the contribution to that growth the majority in this quarter was service provider but we also had year-over-year growth in terms of enterprise as well.
And as Rami mentioned before some of the focus that we’ve had on the high end SRX over this last four quarters to actually improve the performance of that is equally applicable in terms of the branch SRX and those types of products and that’s what the team has focused on as we move forward here.
Okay great.
So that is all the time that we have this afternoon.
We appreciate your participation and all of your great questions and we look forward to speaking with you again next quarter.
Thank you so much everyone.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Juniper Networks Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Ms.
Kathleen Nemeth Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you operator.
Good afternoon and thank you everyone for joining us today.
Here on the call are Shaygan Kheradpir Chief Executive Officer; and Robyn Denholm Chief Financial and Operations Officer.
Also with us is Rami Rahim Executive Vice President Juniper Development and Innovation who will be available for the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Please remember when listening to today’s call that statements concerning Juniper’s business outlook economic and market outlook strategy future financial operating results and overall future prospects are forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors including economic conditions generally or within the networking industry changes in overall technology spending and spending by communication service providers and major customers the network capacity requirements of service providers the timing of orders and shipments manufacturing and supply chain constraints variation in the mix of products sold customer perception and acceptance of our products rapid technological and market change litigation the potential impact of activities related to the execution of Juniper’s integrated operating plan and other factors listed in our most recent 10-Q and 8-K filed with the SEC.
All statements made during this call are made only as of today.
Juniper undertakes no obligation to update the information in this conference call in the event facts or circumstances change after the date of the call.
For purposes of today's discussion we will also review non-GAAP results.
For important commentary on why our management team considers non-GAAP information a useful view of the company's financial results please consult the press release furnished with our 8-K filed with the SEC today.
For the detailed reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP results please see the Investor Relations section of our website.
Please note that today’s call is scheduled to last for one hour and please limit your questions to one per firm.
With that I'll turn the call over to Shaygan.
Thanks Kathleen and welcome everyone.
I am pleased to report that Juniper had another solid quarter delivering on the upper end of our guidance.
On a year-over-year basis we grew revenue 7% and expanded our non-GAAP earnings per share by 38%.
Our revenue was well diversified across our target verticals including carriers Web 2.0 cable and financial services and across all geographies.
We're seeing good trends in U.S.
federal aided by more stable market environment and government budgets normalizing after a protected period of constraint.
We delivered good performance across our routing and switching product lines both of which grew year-over-year.
I am particularly pleased with our routing performance which grew 7% year-over-year and if normalized for last year's deferred revenue recognition of $34 million grew 14% year-over-year.
Our highlights include switching growth of 25% and continued customer transaction of Contrail SDN.
While overall security was down Junos Space SRX products delivered good year-over-year growth of 9%.
All-in-all a very good performance for the June quarter.
Since the last earnings call I have been on a whirlwind tour meeting with over 70 customers and partners.
They are all enthusiastic about our strategy to be the leading provider of High-IQ networks and best in class cloud builder.
What’s really resonating is our approach of listening and understanding in a deep way to the particular business imperative and linking them to Juniper’s out of the possible innovation.
Parts of our renewed focus aligns our efforts across our go-to-market and R&amp;D organizations by taking a deliberate used case driven approach to helping our customers deliver innovation that matters to their customers and operations.
While our strategy is clearly resonating with our customers there are some specific customer specific dynamics in the near-term that we are factoring into our outlook.
Specifically within U.S.
based service providers their market dynamics including M&amp;A activity are impacting both sequencing and timing of projects.
While this will impact our near-term outlook we are well positioned with these customers with major design wins in key areas of their network including next generation projects.
Despite the current near-term uncertainty there are number of positives.
First we expect continued strong growth in our Web 2.0 cable and federal customers; second EMEA is showing positive momentum with customers continuing to build out their network capacity; third we are seeing good performance out of our enterprise sector.
I am very confident that our market position is strengthening and our momentum in winning new business and new customer logos over the medium and the long-term is strong.
Now I'd like to spend a few minutes discussing the four pillars of our Integrated Operating Plan.
We are maintaining a disciplined approach to our commitments and I'm pleased with our progress.
First we pivoted our strategy towards growth areas of the market centered on cloud building and High-IQ networking.
And we deliberately aligned our resources and partner ecosystem to customers in defined verticals that are in a build cycle for these growth areas.
We are seeing clear signs of success as well as an increasingly diverse customer set.
For example three of our top five customers this quarter are either Web 2.0 or cable companies.
Second we successfully implemented to organizational structure required to drive our strategy.
By streamlining the company with a One-Juniper mindset one go-to-market organization one R&amp;D organization and one aligned infrastructure organization.
We have focused our go-to-market and R&amp;D resources on projects with highest potential for growth and we continue to drive leverage engineering across our routing switching and security products via Junos Silicon end systems.
As part of this realignment today we announced that sale of our Junos Pulse business which is our SSL VPN solution for securing remote network access.
We are making the pivot fully toward stated high growth strategy of Cloud-Builder and High-IQ networks for which security is essential and we are shifting our resources into security areas to commensurate with this strategy.
In terms of how we work.
We are implementing initiatives to drive greater collaboration and co-creation across organizational boundaries as well as setting new standards of accountability.
These changes will allow us to grow faster work more efficiently and be more responsive to our customers business imperatives.
Third we continue to drive structural efficiencies across the organization and have executed on specific cost management actions focused on four key areas consolidation and reduplication de-layering the organization greater automation of business processes and focusing on innovation that matters most to our customers.
Our OpEx this quarter was $515 million which is $24 million lower than Q4 2013.
Our baseline for the IOP.
This represents an annualized savings of approximately $100 million nearly two-third towards our goal of $160 million in annual savings.
The $24 million of in-quarter savings are primarily headcount related costs and structural in nature.
Approximately three-quarters of our headcount savings comes from de-layering and reduplicating management positions.
We also reduced approximately 10% of our facility footprint by implementing a new dynamic workplace model.
In addition we have made decisions that will give us line of sight to do remaining cost savings goal by Q1 2015.
Our cost control committee under my leadership continues to drive implementation of efficiencies throughout the organization.
All actions to-date are strengthening Juniper's muscle and smart efficiencies with mechanisms in place to ensure cost will not come back even after we reach our targeted savings goal.
Finally we've greatly improved our allocation and management of capital.
We continue to deliver very strong cash flows from our operations.
This has been a consistent area of our strength for Juniper enabling us to invest in growing the business as well as generating returns for our shareholders.
The actions we’re taking include the initiation of the quarterly cash dividend this quarter and then aggressive return of $3 billion to our shareholders as per our plan.
In addition we’ve successfully concluded our patent litigation and recorded a gain of $195 million.
We are committed to delivering our integrated operating plans and driving significant value for our shareholders.
Now let me talk about the industry outlook.
As the customization of demand for rapid innovation as mass scale our customers willing to continue to invest in the network.
We are seeing our key verticals at the forefront of this wave of change making the transition to high-IQ networking and Cloud-Building and they’re all driving towards a common set of network architectures that are converging across verticals.
Market fundamentals for Juniper’s routing products continues to be healthy and increasingly diversified.
Routing demand is being driven by consolidation of networks across business and residential services wireline and wireless and the need for Cloud-Building.
Bandwidth demand continues to increase and favors our products speed and density advantage such as the industry’s first 0.5 Terabyte per second line card in our MX platform that we’ve just begun shipping.
Demand for switching products also remain strong driven by four trends.
First next generation data center transformation projects and the need for carrier grade availability and operational simplicity.
Second hyperscale cloud build outs.
Third proliferation of big data and video requiring very high performance networking and 10 Gigabit Ethernet refresh.
And fourth increasing need for open architectures and end-to-end automation.
These trends favor our products.
For example our customers have been using our QFX5100 line as a fundamental building blocks for carrier class layer 2 and 3 switching as well as the foundation for automation capabilities such as seamless workloads movements.
In addition many of our customers are going into production with Contrail as they look to automate and orchestrate the creation of highly scalable virtual networks.
In Q2 we have had two large public clouds go live with Contrail one in APAC and the other CloudWatt the largest cloud in France.
We've helped launch private cloud as well including one with a global leader in enterprise security.
In security the decline of our legacy NetScreen product has accelerated and while we disappointed with overall growth rate we are pleased that our Junos Space SRX portfolio was up 11% in the first half of the year the growth was driven by demands for high performance Firewalls virtualized Firewalls high IQ features for stress detection and mitigation and end to end management simplicity.
As I've noted before SRX based security offerings are a differentiated and critical element of our strategy of Cloud-Building and delivering high IQ networks.
Let me walk you through why.
One our Cloud-Building customers are increasingly aware that integrating carrier class security is an imperative and therefore are choosing our security ramping and switching products as an on-sample for the cloud and virtualized data centers.
Two as our customers make the transition to LTE and NFV security has become a crucial component of their overall solution.
And example is security based services that work seamlessly with our MX and Contrail products.
And finally there is a significant level of technology sharing between our Junos-based SRX security routing and switching across silicon systems and software that enables a very high leverage R&amp;D strategy.
We are executing on this strategy focusing our security investments on projects with the highest ROI while improving the overall profitability of our company.
As the only high performance pure play IP networking company we are uniquely positioned to build the bridge of the future for our customers.
We are playing a critical role in helping them be more relevant as they look to create new business models increase productivity and optimize for rapid deployment of new services.
I see great opportunity across our customer base and I am confident that Juniper can help our customers change the world in creative new ways.
In summary while there are some specific customer dynamics that we are carefully navigating in the near-term I am confident in our opportunities and growth prospects in the medium and long-term.
I would like to thank our employees for the commitments and relentless focus on our customers and execution.
Now I will turn it over to Robyn to provide more details on our financial results.
Thank you Shaygan and good afternoon everyone I am pleased to report that our Q2 ‘14 results reflect healthy revenue growth and continued strong earnings expansion.
Revenue increased 7% year-over-year with growth in all three geographies driven by good performance in our routing switching and SRX security products.
Non-GAAP earnings per share grew 38% year-over-year marking the sixth consecutive quarter of strong double-digit earnings growth.
Before I go into detail on the quarter's results I’d like to provide an update on our Integrated Operating Plan.
One of the important elements of our cost reduction activities is that we have been very mindful of how we allocate and shift resources to ensure that we continue to invest in areas that will drive the future growth of the company.
In the quarter we consolidated our Sunnyvale campus discontinued several R&amp;D projects which had a lower return on investment and lastly completed our headcount restructuring.
As a result of these actions in the quarter we recorded restructuring and other charges of $72 million approximately $10 million with the headcount actions taken during the first half of the year the remaining $62 million was related to asset write-downs including $44 million for facility consolidation $14 million for inventory and $4 million for R&amp;D project cancellations and asset impairments.
This brings total restructuring charges to-date to $194 million versus our original total estimate of $220 million.
We are pleased with the pace with which we are taking out structural cost out of the business and anticipate our future restructuring charges to be in the order of $5 million to $10 million.
I'm also pleased with the execution of our capital return plan.
As I mentioned during our call last quarter we initiated a $1.2 billion ASR of which $900 million of shares were delivered in Q1.
We expect the remaining shares to be delivered no later than the end of August.
Given our strong cash generation we intend to opportunistically repurchase a minimum of $550 million in addition to the ASR by the end of the year.
This means that before year-end we'll complete at least $1.75 billion against our commitment to repurchase $2 billion by the end of Q1 2015.
I am also pleased to announce the initiation of a quarterly cash dividend of $0.10 per share of common stock.
This puts in place another piece of our commitment to returning $3 billion to our shareholders over the next three years.
As we have said before we expect to grow this dividend over time.
These capital initiatives reflect our confidence in the underlying long-term strength of Juniper's business as well as our commitment to enhancing shareholder value.
We have carefully structured the program to ensure flexibility to support innovation and growth initiatives.
And as you would expect we will provide update on our progress against these initiatives each quarter.
Now I would like to move into a discussion of the Q2 results.
Looking at our demand metrics our book-to-bill was approximately 1.
Total product deferred revenue was up sequentially $20 million and down $26 million year-over-year.
The sequential increase was due to an increase in channel related inventory.
Total revenue for the quarter was $1 230 million up 7% year-over-year and 5% sequentially.
Product revenue was up 8% year-over-year and 6% over last quarter.
As you may recall in Q2 of 2013 we recognized $34 million of previously deferred routing revenue from a U.S.
government customer.
If you exclude the revenue recognition from last year’s results total revenue growth this quarter would have been 10% and product revenue growth would have been 12%.
This revenue recognition also impacted the year-over-year growth grades through enterprise and routing.
Services revenue was $300 million up 5% year-over-year and 2% sequentially.
There were no 10% customers this quarter.
For the quarter GAAP diluted earnings per share were $0.46 an increase of $0.27 year-over-year.
This included a net gain of $195 million related to a patent litigation settlement which resulted in a $0.41 positive impact to earnings.
This was offset by restructuring and other charges of $72 million which resulted in a $0.15 negative impact.
In the quarter we also incurred a charge of $0.03 associated with an industry wide memory product quality related item.
Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share were $0.40 up $0.11 year-over-year and over last quarter.
This represents a 38% increase both sequentially and year-over-year.
The sequential increase was due to a substantial improvement in operating margin fueled by higher revenue improved gross margins and the decrease in operating expenses.
We had a positive impact from reduced share count of approximately $0.02 year-over-year.
Before I go into detail on revenue I’d like to highlight some of the trends that we saw this quarter.
We continue to see healthy drivers of long-term demand and design wins with customers across the world.
In the U.S.
we saw continued momentum in demand with Web 2.0 cable and enterprise customers.
This diversity of demand is a key strength for us going forward.
However life in the quarter we saw some delays in the timing of project with the few key U.S.
service providers.
Based on current visibility we expect these delays to impact second half results.
Outside of the Americas we saw continued strength in EMEA carrier spending coupled with several good build in select markets in APAC.
Now let's look at the results in detail.
All written experience sequential revenue growth Americas revenue was up 5% year-over-year and 4% sequentially.
Americas service provider was up 13% year-over-year and 3% sequentially driven primarily by Web 2.0 customers a reflection of the continued diversity of our revenue.
Americas enterprise decreased 9% year-over-year.
However taking into account the previously mentioned government deferred revenue recognition from last year the growth rate would have been 6%.
Sequentially Americas enterprise increased 6% led by strength in the U.S.
federal market.
EMEA revenue was up 8% over last year and 10% sequentially due to healthy growth in the service provider market with particular strength among large carriers in Central and Eastern Europe and the Middle East.
APAC was flat sequentially an increase $0.11 year-over-year primarily driven by strength with regional carriers across the theatre as well as growth in the enterprise market.
Service provider revenue for the quarter was $832 million up 15% year-over-year across all three geographies and up 6% sequentially driven by EMEA and the Americas.
Enterprise revenue was $398 million down 6% year-over-year excluding the government deferred revenue recognition from last year so year-over-year growth rate was 2%.
Sequentially enterprise revenue was up 3% led by healthy U.S.
federal and financial services demand partially offset by routing products revenue with $618 million up 12% sequentially and 7% year-over-year; the sequential growth was driven by a strong performance for MX and significant improvement for (inaudible).
Switching products revenue was a record $200 million up 25% year-over-year and up 4% sequentially.
The sequential growth rate was driven primarily by QFabric products.
The year-over-year growth was driven by a combination of both QFX and EX products.
Total security product revenue was $112 million down 17% sequentially and 11% year-over-year.
We are disappointed with this performance however it does reflect the trend that we have been seeing as steady increase in Junos-based security products and a significant drop in the non-Junos-based security products.
Our SRX platform and security software were up 9% year-over-year and up 11% for the first half of the year.
We have included a table in our slide deck breaking out the security product revenue.
Moving on to the gross margin and operating expenses.
Non-GAAP gross margin for the quarter was 64.2% compared to 63.5% last quarter and 63.7% a year ago.
The sequential improvement was driven by an increase in both product and services gross margin.
Non-GAAP product gross margins were 65.4% up six-tenth of a point from last quarter and up 1.6 points from a year-ago.
The sequential improvement was primarily driven by increased volume.
Non-GAAP services gross margins were 60.5% down 2.8 points from a year ago and up eight-tenth of a point sequentially.
The year-over-year decline is higher support cost.
The sequential increase is due to higher revenue and flat support related cost.
We expect services margins to continue to modestly improve in the second half of the year.
We are pleased to report that our non-GAAP operating expenses were $515 million at the lower end of the range that we gave last quarter reflecting our focus in execution against our integrated operating plan.
This represents the $27 million or 5% sequential reduction.
This includes a $6 million reduction in patent litigation related expenses versus the first quarter due to the settlement.
The remaining legal and litigation fees in Q2 were $12 million consistent with Q1.
We are on track to deliver against the $160 million of annualized cost reduction goal that we announced in February.
Our headcount ended the quarter at 9 083 which represents 5% decline sequentially and year-over-year.
Non-GAAP operating margin for the quarter was 22.3% reflecting a year-over-year expansion of 3.4 points and a sequential increase of 5.1 points due to higher revenue improved gross margins and lower operating expenses.
The non-GAAP tax rate was 26% compared to 25.6% last quarter.
The GAAP tax rate was 24.9% compared to 25.3% in Q1.
We ended the quarter with $2.6 billion of net cash and investments an increase of approximately $480 million sequentially.
This includes a $165 million related to the patent litigation settlement.
Onshore cash and investments represented approximately 37% of total growth cash balance.
Q2 operating cash flows were unusually strong at $425 million.
This included $75 million of cash received from the patent litigation settlement.
The strong cash flows during the quarter were also attributable to higher net income lower incentive compensation payments and improved working capital metrics.
Inline with recent trends DSO improved to 41 days.
CapEx was $41 million in the quarter and depreciation and amortization expense was $45 million.
Now I will review our outlook for Q3.
As a reminder these metrics are provided on a non-GAAP basis except for revenue and share account.
As previously mentioned there were some customer specific dynamics in the near term that we have factored in into our outlook.
While we are well positioned with these customers with our current visibility to we expect sequencing and timing related delays to effect both Q3 and Q4.
This is partially offset by science and strength in emerging verticals such as Web 2.0 and cable as well as a positive outlook for enterprise.
We see positive momentum in EMEA with customers continuing to build out their network capacity.
For the third quarter we expect revenues to range from $1 150 million to $1 200 million.
Gross margins are expected to be 64% plus or minus 0.5%.
Operating expenses are expected to be $505 million plus or minus $5 million which at the midpoint is a $10 million reduction from Q2 and a $5 million reduction from our previously published targets.
We’re delivering on our cost reduction commitments.
Operating margins are expected to be 21% plus or minus 0.5%.
This is expected to result in non-GAAP diluted EPS of between $0.35 and $0.40 per share assuming a share count of approximately $475 million.
This continues our strong expansion of earnings with growth of 14% at the midpoint of the guided range.
We expect a flat tax rate versus the second quarter.
As you know we announced the sell of our Junos Pulse business today.
The impact has been factored into this guidance and it’s immaterial to our revenue outlook for Q3.
The revenue impact beyond Q3 can be guided from the supplemental table provided.
We expect this sale to close late in Q3.
We have factored the cost-savings associated with this sale as part of our goal of achieving a $160 million in cost savings as we exit the first quarter of 2015.
To conclude I am really pleased with the performance of the entire Juniper team.
The first half of 2014 has been a time of solid execution for the company we have lots of moving parts and we have continued our focus on the things that matter most to our customers and shareholders.
I am very proud of our team and thanks them for their continued dedication and commitment to Juniper.
Now let's open the call for questions.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen we will now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from the line of Tal Liani with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi first just housekeeping item and then my question.
Can you provide us the numbers for Pulse and also the all platform also for Q3 and Q4 of last year then we'll have a complete picture of how security was trending? Second question and then that goes back to my main question.
When I look at your and this is more kind of a statement than the question I would like to here maybe Shaygan might I'd like to here your view.
When I look at your plan the expense side of the equation is almost done you almost finished with the expense reduction.
And then I look at the numbers in switching is relatively flat for three quarters now the growth is mainly because you have easy comps from last year.
In security we are back to the levels we are down back to the levels of March 13 you quoted the six months numbers but if you actually look at Q2 numbers were down sequentially back to the levels of first quarter '13 and in routing there are delays.
So how long do you think if put the expenses aside how long do you think is going to take us to see the changes you are implementing on the product portfolio and growth acceleration and impact on switching and routing and security et cetera? Thanks.
Hi Tal this is Shaygan good afternoon.
On your first question on drilling into Pulse I am going to ask Robyn to sort of go through the numbers and then we’ll take the second one.
Yeah so in the slide deck that’s on our website we have provided the data for the last six quarters so you can see the Junos Pulse revenues for the quarter Q2 of ‘14 we did product revenue of 15.9 million which is included in our security product revenue and we also did about $15.5 million worth of services.
And as I mentioned the transaction on the Pulse file I will conclude right in third quarter is what we are expecting and so we don’t expect any impact to the revenue in Q3 but you can use the table to model the impact to Q4.
Just going back to the other housekeeping question the ScreenOS product revenue for Q2 ‘14 was about $13.2 million which is less than 12% of our total product revenue that compares to previous quarter where it was under 14% at about 18.3%.
So it’s dropping off quite significantly from the ScreenOS perspective.
Thanks Robyn and Tal on your second question I would say that we continue to take share on both switching and routing.
And as you mentioned before on security this year the stabilization phase if you look at our numbers this quarter if you normalize for the one time from last year at this time on routing routing was up 14% switching was up 24%.
We are taking share and we continue to do significant enhancements at both product lines.
For the balance of the year we mentioned in our prepared remarks that we have a couple of U.S.
service providers with whom we are very close at all levels and in continuous dialog.
Because of their market environment and what they need to do they are risk sequencing and that's going to impact some of the timing of our programs as we were working with them.
We are -- the growth drivers our product positioning we are very encouraged by both and overall for our 2015 we have an overall constructive view of where we are heading.
So overall we feel good about our product positioning and our market positioning.
And I think this quarter's growth and growth year-to-date for both routing switching and I would also say even though in security we are tuning in now heavily to our SRX space Junos space products it has respectable growth of 9% year-over-year.
So we feel good.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Rod Hall with JP Morgan.
Please proceed with your question.
Yes hi.
This is Ashwin on behalf of Rod thanks for taking my question.
I want to understand a little bit about the customer specific dynamics you talk about.
You said it's going to be weak in Q3 and Q4.
So are we sort of expecting a better seasonal Q1 and Q2 next year? Also if you could comment on which verticals you see impacting that would be helpful.
Yes your first question was about -- Ash was about the dynamics the market dynamics of the couple of the service providers.
I don’t want to really go into that but I think you can see they’re very transparent in terms of where they are putting their capital for what reason and there is some M&amp;A that is in the market we know that and I encourage you to think about M&amp;A in the broader sense.
And when you put it all together and I have lived in those markets in the U.S.
specifically for a quarter century it makes everything comes together and some of our internal metrics also late in the quarter sort of flash.
So we want to be prudent and we want to be cautious for the balance of the year.
But we're also because of the growth drivers that we talked about and where we are from a product perspective we are overall constructive for 2015.
Robyn do you want to add anything there? I think you've discussed it quite well Shaygan.
Thanks Ash.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
Our next question comes from the line of Simona Jankowski with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi thank you.
Can you clarify if Pulse was contributing positively to EPS for new account for the associated expenses? And then just remind us how much of your revenues go in to campus or access environments as opposed to the focus areas Shaygan that you’ve talked about of datacenter and cloud.
Hi Simona this is Shaygan.
I will pass the question to Robyn.
I will just say about Pulse two second.
Pulse is a good asset.
The issue is it's not in line with our strategy which is very much focused on cloud build or High-IQ and how those markets are shaping.
And we want to really focus our security line around growth where the markets are going and very strong in.
So with that I am going to pass to Robyn to take the question on Pulse.
Yes.
As Shaygan mentioned intent of doing strategic review with our portfolio Pulse was an asset a good asset but as Shaygan mentioned not directly in the line with strategic focus of the company.
And therefore we have announced the sale of the asset today.
It has been mildly accretive for us over the years in terms of the overall P&amp;L but given the focus of the company and the intent to return on investment we’ve decided that that’s an asset that with better in the hands of the another entity to look after it.
And Simona on your second question I am going to ask Rami to comment and say few words.
Yes.
On the question on campus versus -- sorry Simona on the question about the campus versus data center aspects of our switching business.
The majority of our switching business goes into data center and combination data center campus switching scenarios.
There are in fact large enterprise customers where the line between their mission critical campus and the data center is essentially blurring.
They view the campus as an onramp to the data center.
We’re not going after the smaller wiring clauses types of campuses; we’re really going after the larger strategic high performance High-IQ type of campus networks that many of our customers are building.
Thank you.
Thanks Simona.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ehud Gelblum with Citigroup.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey guys hey Robyn hey Shaygan.
How are you? Hi Ehud.
Hi.
A couple of quick questions.
First of all back to the SRX it was strong in Q3 Q4 was very strong in Q1 and then fell fairly hard to about $80 million in Q2.
I want to get a sense if that’s seasonal or because Q2 last year also had a similar impact or was there large build that one on for those three quarters Q3 4 and 1 or any other color that we can get on the dynamics over there.
Then I wanted to pick up a little bit on Contrail.
You talked about continued traction in Contrail.
Can you give us a sense as to is that -- is Contrail actually selling the standalone product yet is there some revenue we can be looking at that or is there pull through that we can be looking on possibly the QFX or other products? And now that Cisco is out with their ACI and their APIC how are you seeing that change of dynamic in the conversations on Contrail? And then lastly Web 2.0 and cable guys Robyn you talk about these guys a lot now.
Can you give us a sense how large to Web 2.0 guys are? Are they 5% of your revenue now? Give us a sense as to what we should be looking from that vertical? Thank you.
Thanks Ehud.
There is I think four or five questions there so I'll punch them some quickly and I’ll have Robyn and Rami also chime in if they want.
So on SRX as we have pivoted to Junos Space SRX security line obviously this is a cloud builder High-IQ service provider carrier grave kind of firewalls.
And the sales of that obviously is more lumpy than I would say your grandfather’s firewall in normal branches and stuff.
So you will obviously see lumpiness in those sales just because of the nature of what we are selling which is very very high end.
On Contrail we are very happy and encouraged with the progress is that we are very early in the game obviously and it’s all about design wins holistically for clouds be it private clouds or public clouds infrastructure as a service and so forth and so on.
So they started this just last year late last year they have a large number of talks proof of concepts they have pivoted now from talks making those go into production and the funnel keeps growing on talks.
And they are being very deliberate on these wins because they are big they are sophisticated and we have to get them right and we are doing that.
The other two questions were Robyn and Rami.
So I can answer the question.
One thing I wanted to underscore on the SRX Ehud so you are right it is lumpy and Q1 we did have a deployment in the service provider area and so that is one of the reasons why we saw the sequential decline in SRX based products.
In terms of Web 2.0 and cable they did drive the growth in the Americas both sequentially and to some extent year-over-year and as Shaygan mentioned three out of our top five customers as a company are in that Web 2.0 cable sector in the quarter.
So they are obviously an important part from a future perspective around the diversification of our revenue.
Having said that obviously our carriers are also very important to us and as we highlighted in the outlook given their size and relevance to our revenue any reduction in their revenue in the near term does have a direct impact on us.
Thank you Robyn.
And Ehud on your last question I would say suffices to say we are intense of course with our customers all the time and clearly the customers that we work with Cloud Builder High-IQ types they are very much want open no lock in and future proof solutions under cloud solutions.
So that's all I say Rami do you want to say anything else on that from that front? I'll just add on the SRX front there is a service provider component to the business that tends to be somewhat lumpy the biggest use case being for example LTE security.
And then on the Contrail side I think Shaygan already mentioned it.
The one thing that I will add is that we are seeing that in the first few deployments they are being deployed Contrail being deployed in heterogeneous networks where there is a combination of Juniper and other peer type of infrastructure and it just speaks to the openness of the solution which our customers very much appreciate.
[And no lock in].
Yes.
Thanks Ehud.
Thanks Ehud.
Next question please operator? Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jess Lubert with Wells Fargo.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi guys.
Thanks for taking my question.
I was hoping to understand to what degree the delays are likely to be the most impact of routing business in the second half or if you are expecting to see impact in switching and security given many of your carriers who have buying portfolio products.
And then I was also hoping you could help us understand if you expect revenue for the second half of the year to be up relative to the first half of the year and is there any reason we shouldn't expect the overall you to grow in 2014?  Hi Jess.
So on your first question since they are -- the softness is coming from a couple of U.S.
service providers and you are right they buy upon sample but they are very -- we are very heavily embedded with them with our routing products of MX and TTX series.
So the impact is going to be more on our routing rather than switching and security.
And the second question I forgot but I think you will have a Robyn? Yes.
So overall as we said in terms of the outlook we are expecting a down quarter for the third quarter and we are expecting these delays to impact our fourth quarter as well.
We do expect on the switching side Shaygan mentioned the routing side we do expect in switching that in the second half of the year that we will grow that business as well the products in switching area.
Just bear in mind the compares that we have as is that look at the second half for us to switching.
And on security we expect the same trend that we've seen over the first half that the ScreenOS product will continue to decline and the Junos based SRX platforms will increase over the second half.
Jess this is Kathleen just to answer your question specifically we do expect overall 2014 revenue to be up this year.
Thanks guys.
Thanks Jeff.
Our next question comes from the line of Ben Reitzes with Barclays.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi guys.
This is Trevor (inaudible) in for Ben.
My questions on security specifically and around the strategy so what gives you the confidence in the strategy in general and the ability to return to growth across the portfolio? While SRX seems to be core to the strategy it’s on a negative trajectory at the same time as 1Q ‘13 and while the other two businesses are growing pretty nicely despite this.
So at what point does it make sense to consider alternatives given that returns to growth seemingly would require significant investment? Hi Trevor this is Shaygan.
We are very committed to security.
Point number one I went through in my prepared remarks of the logic behind that behind our SRX based security which we think is very differentiated and it’s a very critical element of cloud builder and high IQ networks.
I don’t want to repeat what I said in my script but you can go it I think we’ve laid it out very nicely quickly know what is going to buy cloud with the big giant hole on the side.
So that’s why it’s critical for there.
It’s critical for our service provider customers which are even with our increasing diversity of our revenues as you can see they’re still very material customers.
And in their transition to LTE and NFV it is an absolute critical component for their transitions and it works seamlessly with MX and Contrail as hand in glove.
And finally if you come into our labs and see the amount of commonality in terms of componentry Silicon Chassis of course Junos software they are all I would I think leverage engineering is now doesn't quite do justice too it's a lot of commonality.
And now that all three switching routing and security are under our JDI organization that's led by Rami we expect growth to pick-up over to medium and long-term on our security the logic is very sound and impeccable and pick-up profitably because of the natural synergies that exists between these product lines.
So yeah we are very committed to SRX based security products and actually very encouraged to the medium to long-term prospects for the rationale that I went through.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Sue with RBC Marketing.
Please proceed with your question.
Shaygan will you recognize the company will keep the assets routing switching and security/SRX.
Are there other non-essential assets that you can further divest or we [missed you] done with that.
And as we look at improving the strength of the SRX and perhaps the other product portfolio segments.
Should we think about how should we think about R&amp;D spending how should we think about spending potentially going backup or in the process of reducing OpEx but I will be at a point where you need to defend your market share and also improve the products so that the OpEx needs to kind of increase again.
How should we think about from a planning point of view what the steady rate OpEx should be on an annual basis? Yes.
Mark again very quickly.
As you have managed the business very closely and very prudently and very focused we continue as a matter of course continue to always look at our portfolio to make sure that they are aligned with our strategy point number one which is the one you have stated which is IOP which is cloud that there are High-IQ which is around growth and profitable growth that matters to our customers we continue to do that.
As a matter of course we talked about Pulse this was one of them that didn’t fit our (inaudible) charts and we took action.
So that’s just been normal course of our business and now that we have a very clear strategy that we have tested over and over again internally externally I just came back with 70 partners and customers it’s just a very vivid that this is where the world is going and what we are doing is exactly right.
So we have the right filter to balance that upon.
The second question is it’s about we are also very committed to our IOP targets and I reemphasized that so you should rest assured there.
And I think our track record so far should give you some comfort that we know how to land the IOP targets.
And the last question was…  Yes sure just on the planning purposes on the OpEx side in the slide deck we included our charts obviously we are committed to the 160 in terms of cost reductions exiting Q1 of 2015 as Shaygan mentioned.
We have also said that will be less than $500 million for Q1 of 2015 we have just achieved the low end of their range for Q2 in terms of 515 and we have given you guidance for 505 plus or minus 5 for both Q3 and Q4.
So as Shaygan mentioned we are very committed to the OpEx target and we are doing it in a way that makes it clear that we continue to invest in our long-term future around product development.
And yes….
And thank you Robyn.
And Mark the last point is IOP is all about focusing on where the market is going and profitable growth.
So all the actions we are taking is actually putting our best engineers our best go-to-market people very focused around areas of growth and strengthening those.
So as we’ve said before this is not a slash and burn kind of a project.
It's very surgical very focused we are -- the thing we just did with Pulse and some of the best engineers and so forth and so on.
We all focusing them on the growth of security and SRX based products as opposed to in a wide spectrum of things which we may have net prospects for growth.
So we feel very good about our strategy and feel very good about our focus on the product line our level of talent where the products are going very excited about the pipeline and very extremely happy with the level of customer engagements the way I described in my prepared remarks in terms of going deep with them on the strategic customers and strategic partners.
This is what IOP is all about.
And the good news is when you focus you also eliminate unnecessary cost.
This is what we're doing and we're committed to all of the above.
Thank you.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Amitabh Passi.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi guys thanks for squeezing me in.
Shaygan Robyn I was wondering is there a way to quantify what do you think the impact is from the delays with the U.S.
based service providers? If I look at the midpoint of your guidance you are about 85 million short of where consensus was.
And I am just trying to get a sense is the majority of that explained by these delays? And then just a quick follow up on Junos Pulse Robyn why wouldn't we see incremental OpEx savings in the fourth quarter once the divestiture has occurred?  Hi Amitabh this is Shaygan.
I think the answer to your first question quick answer is yes it is those couple of U.S.
based service providers for very specific market reasons in their markets and dynamics that have impacted their second half.
I will now hand it to Robyn to take the rest.
Yes in terms of the OpEx related to Pulse that is included in $160 million of OpEx savings.
We had identified this as an area for which we believe that we could save some OpEx and focus the company in terms of the overall strategy that we were focused on.
Okay.
All right thanks Amitabh.
I would like to thank everyone for joining us today.
That is all the time that we have.
We appreciate your excellent questions and we look forward to speaking with you again next quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Juniper Networks Third Quarter 2014 Financial Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I'd now like to turn the conference over to your host Kathleen Nemeth Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you operator.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today.
Here on the call are Shaygan Kheradpir Chief Executive Officer; and Robyn Denholm Chief Financial and Operations Officer.
Vince Molinaro Executive Vice President Chief Customer Officer; and Rami Rahim Executive Vice President Juniper Development and Innovation will be available for the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Please remember when listening to today's call that statements concerning Juniper's business outlook economic and market outlook strategy future financial operating results overall future prospects planned operating expensed reductions and capital allocation plans are forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors including: economic conditions generally or within the networking industry changes in the overall technology spending and spending by communication service providers and other major customers the network capacity requirements of service providers the timing of orders and shipments manufacturing and supply chain constraints variation in the mix of products sold customer perception and acceptance of our products rapid technological and market change litigation the potential impact of activities related to the execution of Juniper's Integrated Operating Plan and other factors listed in our most recent 10-Q and 8-K filed with the SEC.
All statements made during this call are made only as of today.
Juniper undertakes no obligation to update the information in this conference call in the event facts or circumstances change after the date of the call.
Our discussion of the financial results today will include non-GAAP results.
For important commentary on why the management team considers non-GAAP information a useful view of the company's financial results please consult the press release furnished with our 8-K filed with the SEC today.
For the detailed reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP results please see the Investor Relations section of our website.
In today's call we will also be providing forward-looking guidance.
As a reminder other than revenue and share count guidance is provided on a non-GAAP basis.
All guidance is forward-looking and actual results may vary for the reasons I noted earlier.
A reconciliation of non-GAAP guidance to GAAP measures is not available on a forward-looking basis due to the high variability and low visibility with respect to the charges which are excluded for non-GAAP guidance.
As a reminder we completed the sale of our Junos Pulse security product line earlier this month.
Please ensure your financial models are appropriately adjusted.
Further information and our long-term model will be shared during our Investor Day later this month in New York City.
Please note that today's call is scheduled to last for 1 hour.
[Operator Instructions] With that I'll turn the call over to Shaygan.
Thanks Kathleen and welcome everyone.
I wanted to give you an update on progress at Juniper including the impact of industry trends on our revenues our work on our Integrated Operating Plan and steps we are taking to ensure we are well positioned to deliver shareholder value going forward.
While we have made significant progress executing beyond our IOP commitments associated with capital return and operating expenses we are disappointed with our revenue performance this quarter.
Our Q3 revenue declined 5% year-over-year and 8% sequentially.
The primary driver was lower-than-expected demand and slower ramp-up of new projects from service providers particularly in the U.S.
That said our traction with Web 2.0 leaders has allowed us to partially offset the decline in carrier spending and increase the diversity of our revenue base.
Notwithstanding these industry headwinds we delivered non-GAAP EPS within our guidance range.
We did so by maintaining strong gross margins diligently managing expenses and executing aggressively against our IOP capital return goals.
We have met or exceeded our commitments set forth in our Integrated Operating Plan in February while not losing sight of strategic engagements with key customers.
We achieved our original cost reduction target this quarter by getting to a $500 million quarterly OpEx level from $539 million in fourth quarter of 2013.
This came 2 quarters ahead of the original commitment.
We're now further reducing our operating expense levels to $1 900 000 000 for the fiscal year 2015 a meaningful reduction from current levels.
We believe that by continuing to take this kind of surgical approach to our cost reduction efforts we can still invest sufficiently to grow our business and lead the next wave of IP networking innovation.
Our One-Juniper organizational structure is allowing us to get products to market faster and cheaper as our common operating system and coalesced engineering and go-to-market teams continue to operate faster and more efficiently.
In fact we are excited about our product pipeline ahead and pleased with progress in our pivot to strategic vertical markets focused on cloud building and high-IQ networking.
We have also exceeded our capital return commitment set forth at the Integrated Operating Plan.
Our commitment through Q1 2015 was to return $2 billion of capital.
We will return greater than that by Q4 2014.
Our commitment through 2016 was to return $3 billion in capital.
We have increased the size of our capital return program by $1.1 billion and now plan to return $4.1 billion by the end of 2016.
Given market conditions we will take an aggressive stance and will plan to repurchase $1.5 billion by the end of Q2 2015.
We also announced today a $0.10 per share cash dividend to be paid in Q4 with the intent to grow it in line with earnings over time.
I'd like to spend a few moments discussing the macro environment and our business.
As I've stated previously I believe the global networking market is at an inflection point presenting substantial opportunities for growth.
The underlying long-term demand trends support the need for increased investment in the network.
Based upon historical trends and discussions with customers we feel investment will return in the second half of next year and that our integrated portfolio of routing switching and security products will be well positioned to address critical customer requirements.
Despite weaker macro conditions the market fundamentals for Juniper's routing products continue to be healthy and our customer base continues to be increasingly diversified.
In Security we saw good demand for high-end SRX products from service providers.
Switching revenue declined quarter-over-quarter as we experienced an ebb in the wave of customer build-outs that we saw earlier in the year.
Though we continue to see momentum for our switching products we expect modest improvements until the recent wave of customer design wins ramps in 2015.
We continue to see our integrated solutions as a fundamental building block and a differentiating factor for customers of cloud building and high-IQ networking including the focus on secure routing and switching solutions for active defense.
So what should you expect moving forward? We are focused on continuing to drive long-term shareholder value through profitable growth.
We assume the carrier spending will remain constrained for several quarters and we are streamlining our business with the before-mentioned operating expense reductions.
We expect this to result in healthy year-over-year operating margin expansion in 2015.
I am enthusiastic about our technology roadmap to deliver the next wave of IP networking and I'm confident in our strong market position.
We remain intensely focused on operational excellence cost discipline and targeted growth initiatives.
We appreciate the support of our shareholders and thank our employees for their ongoing commitment and relentless dedication to execution.
Now I'll turn it over to Robyn to provide more details on our financial results.
Thank you Shaygan and good afternoon everyone.
The September quarter was challenging from a revenue perspective primarily because the Service Provider demand particularly in the U.S.
is slowing more than expected.
Despite this we delivered non-GAAP earnings within our original guidance range due to our continued focus on cost reduction initiatives.
Before I go into detail on the results of the quarter I'd like to provide an update on our Integrated Operating Plan.
We continue to make good progress against our targets.
We have achieved our IOP quarterly operating expense target 2 quarters earlier than expected.
We also completed the consolidation of our Sunnyvale campus and negotiated an early exit of our lease which has resulted in a credit of $26 million against our prior restructuring estimate.
As announced on October 2 we finalized the sale of the Junos Pulse business.
As a result we anticipate booking a GAAP gain on the sale in Q4 of 2014.
As expected our Q3 results reflect a full quarter of this business.
We are executing well on our capital return plan.
We paid our inaugural dividend of $0.10 per share in September.
We also completed our $1.2 billion ASR in July and repurchased an additional $550 million of shares in Q3.
Since inception of our Integrated Operating Plan we have reduced our fully diluted share count by 10% and 13% over the last 2 years.
I'm very pleased at the pace of our cost reductions and our progress towards a more efficient capital structure.
In the outlook section I will provide detail on the additional costs and capital allocation action mentioned by Shaygan.
Now let's turn to an analysis of the Q3 results.
Demand was relatively weak in the quarter.
Our product book-to-bill was approximately 1 and bookings were almost $100 million less than we expected.
Total product deferred revenue declined $57 million year-over-year and $29 million versus last quarter.
The sequential decrease was mainly the result of the sell-through of channel-related inventory and the reclassification of the Junos Pulse deferred revenue to a held-for-sale asset category.
Total revenue for the quarter was $1 126 000 000 down 5% year-over-year and 8% sequentially.
Product revenue was $810 million down 10% year-over-year and 13% over last quarter.
Services revenue was $316 million up 11% year-over-year and 5% sequentially.
For the quarter GAAP diluted earnings per share were $0.23 an increase of $0.04 year-over-year including a $0.03 benefit from restructuring credit.
Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share was $0.36 up $0.03 year-over-year and down $0.04 versus last quarter.
The sequential decrease was due to lower revenue partially offset by improvements in gross margin and operating expenses.
Looking at our revenue for Q3.
There were 4 primary factors which negatively impacted our results versus our expectations.
U.S.
carrier spending was worse than we had expected and Web 2.0 Switching revenue was lower than anticipated due to the timing of deployments and the slower ramp of new projects.
To a lesser extent we saw a softening in the broad-based enterprise market and a greater-than-expected slowdown in demand from Eastern European service providers.
Now let's look at the revenue results in detail.
Americas revenue was up 3% year-over-year and down 5% sequentially.
Americas Service Provider was up 1% year-over-year and down 7% sequentially.
The year-over-year increase was driven primarily by Web 2.0 and cable provider growth partially offset by decline from carrier demand.
The sequential decline was driven by weak demand by large carriers and a significant reduction in Web 2.0 Switching revenue in the quarter partially offset by continued strength in cable providers and Web 2.0 routing.
Americas Enterprise was up 5% year-over-year and flat sequentially.
Sequentially we saw continued strength in the U.S.
federal market and financial services which was offset by some softness in the broad enterprise market.
EMEA revenue was down 5% over last year and 11% versus last quarter.
The year-over-year decrease was due to declines in Western Europe and the Middle East primarily in Service Providers whilst the sequential decrease was driven by weakness in Eastern Europe.
APAC was down 28% year-over-year and 19% versus last quarter primarily due to Service Provider weakness in China and Japan.
Service Provider revenue for the quarter was $742 million down 6% year-over-year due to EMEA and APAC and U.S.
carriers partially offset by a slight increase in the Americas from Web 2.0 and cable providers.
Sequentially Service Provider revenue for the quarter was down 11% due to declines across all 3 geographies.
Enterprise revenue was $384 million down 3% year-over-year and sequentially.
APAC and EMEA were down in the broader enterprise market year-over-year.
Sequentially the decline was partially offset by continued strength in the U.S.
federal market and financial services.
By product area Routing product revenue was $533 million down 12% year-over-year and 14% sequentially.
The declines were driven by weakness in the carrier market in both core and edge.
We saw good traction in both the PTX and MX2020 product lines.
Enterprise Routing was healthy.
Switching product revenue was $155 million an increase of 5% year-over-year driven by QFX into service providers partially offset by a decline in the EX mainly in the broad enterprise market.
Sequentially Switching product revenues declined 22% coming off a record revenue in Q2.
The decline was the result of lower demand from our Web 2.0 and softness from our broad enterprise customers.
Security product revenue was $121 million down 16% year-over-year but up 9% versus last quarter.
Our SRX platform and security software were down 6% year-over-year and up 11% sequentially mainly as a result of increased demand by service providers.
Moving on to gross margins and operating expenses.
Non-GAAP gross margins for the quarter was 65.2% compared to 64.4% a year ago and 64.2% last quarter.
The improvements were driven by an increase in both product and services gross margins.
Non-GAAP product gross margins were 66.1% up 0.7 points from both a year ago and last quarter mainly due to favorability in product mix and reductions in costs.
Non-GAAP gross margins for services were 63% up 1.7 points from a year ago and 2.5 points versus last quarter.
The increases were due to lower support-related costs from operational improvements and savings from variable costs.
We are pleased to report that our non-GAAP operating expenses were $493 million well below the range we gave last quarter reflecting our focus on cost as well as the benefit of reduced variable costs in the quarter.
Our headcount at the end of the quarter was 9 059 which includes approximately 200 employees who transitioned as a result of the sale of the Junos Pulse business.
Adjusting for the exiting Pulse employees headcount declined 7% versus Q4 of 2013.
Non-GAAP operating margin for the quarter was 21.5% reflecting a year-over-year expansion of 1.7 points due to continued cost reductions.
We experienced 0.1 point sequential of decline due to lower revenue partially offset by improved gross margins and lower operating expenses.
The non-GAAP tax rate was 27% compared to 26% last quarter as a result of the increase in the mix of U.S.-based taxable income.
The GAAP tax rate was 37.4% compared to 24.9% in Q2 due to a change in the geographic mix of earnings and other onetime items.
We ended the third quarter with approximately $2 billion of net cash and investments.
The decline was primarily due to the capital return of $594 million.
Onshore cash and investments represented approximately 26% of total gross cash balance.
For the quarter we saw a net cash outflow from operations of $79 million mainly due to timing differences in working capital specifically an increase in accounts receivable payments for incentive comp tax payment and a reduction in deferred revenue.
In Q4 we expect to return to our historical pattern of strong positive cash flows.
DSO was 49 days up from 41 days last quarter due to the timing of shipments and invoicing linearity.
Capital expenditures were $43 million and depreciation and amortization expense was $44 million.
Now I will provide our outlook for Q4.
As a reminder these metrics are provided on a non-GAAP basis except for revenue and share count.
The demand environment for our largest U.S.
carrier customers continues to be challenging.
We have good relationships and design wins with these customers.
However the timing of deployments and improved demand is uncertain.
At this stage we are taking a prudent and cautious stance on revenue over the next several quarters.
As previously mentioned we completed the sale of Junos Pulse and the quarterly revenue impact of approximately $30 million has been factored into the Q4 guidance.
For the fourth quarter of 2014 we expect revenues to range from $1 025 000 000 to $1 075 000 000.
Gross margins are expected to be 64% plus or minus 0.5%.
Operating expenses are expected to be $480 million plus or minus $5 million.
Operating margins are expected to be 18.5% at the midpoint of guidance.
We expect a flat tax rate versus the third quarter.
We expect non-GAAP diluted EPS of between $0.28 and $0.32 per share assuming a weighted average share count of approximately 435 million.
I'm also pleased to report that the board has approved a dividend of $0.10 per share for the fourth quarter.
For the full year 2014 using the midpoint of Q4 guidance revenues are expected to be approximately $4 576 000 000.
Gross margins will be approximately 64%.
Operating expenses will be approximately $2 030 000 000 and operating margins will be just under 20%.
EPS is expected to be approximately $1.35.
Excluding Junos Pulse revenues of $95 million for the first 3 quarters of 2014 Pulse adjusted full year revenue will be about $4 480 000 000.
Now I'd like to move into a discussion of how we are planning the business for 2015.
We see the long-term demand drivers as healthy and we are confident in our innovation pipeline.
We continue to earn good design wins across our carrier web services cable and enterprise accounts.
That said we are planning for the overall revenue environment to be challenging over the next several quarters as near-term factors are impacting demand from our largest Service Provider customers.
Given this market environment we are targeting 2015 operating expenses of $1 900 000 000 plus or minus $25 million.
This is a $130 million reduction for our estimated full year 2014 operating expense levels and translates to a $260 million aggregate IOP commitment.
To achieve these additional savings we will continue to carefully manage headcount drive efficiency improvements and prioritize revenue-generating projects and resources.
As part of our ongoing commitment to drive shareholder value we also announced earlier today that the board has approved an additional $1.1 billion to the previously authorized capital return program.
This brings our total capital return commitment to shareholders including dividends to $4.1 billion through 2016.
As a reminder our original IOP commitment was to return $3 billion to shareholders through 2016.
We have been opportunistic and aggressive in reducing our share count and have paid our first dividend.
This brings the total return to shareholders through the end of Q3 2014 to $1.8 billion.
We expect to continue to be opportunistic and aggressive in reducing our share count given the current market conditions and we are currently expecting to complete a minimum of $1.5 billion in aggregate share repurchases before the end of Q2 2015.
Given these additional actions even with a cautious revenue outlook we expect significant year-over-year operating margin and earnings per share expansion in 2015.
In summary we remain committed to returning value to shareholders while maintaining the financial flexibility to invest in innovation and growth.
I am very proud of our team and thank them for their continued dedication and commitment to Juniper.
Now let's open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Jess Lubert from Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> You gave some color on your expected operating expenses for 2015.
Can you also let us know if you expect to grow next year? And can you help us understand how you're thinking about Q1 seasonality given the weaker second half? And then despite fairly soft router sales you suggested fundamentals in the business remained healthy.
So I was hoping to understand what's driving confidence here in this market.
And given the carrier focus on NFV technologies and reducing costs what leads you to believe the business will snap back in the second half? Jess this is Shaygan.
I'll make a few comments and I'll pass it to Robyn.
One I would say that the visibility to revenue in the near term in the next few quarters is poor.
And this is because we're going through a cycle as you know and these cycles take 2 to 4 quarters.
We think it started last quarter.
Plus in our last earnings call we also mentioned that there are some specific dynamics in the carrier market in the U.S.
So put them all together it gives us poor visibility into the near future on revenues.
Because we think these cycles typically take 2 to 4 quarters at this point in time our planning assumption is that growth will return in the second half of 2015.
And we're planning our business accordingly.
Robyn do want to say a few words? No I think that's very good Shaygan.
In terms of the near-term environment as we mentioned for the fourth quarter our guidance -- we obviously put that number out there.
And then we do expect that we're in this 2- to 4-quarter cycle as Shaygan talked about.
For the full year next year we're not putting out specific revenue numbers.
As Shaygan mentioned the environment is challenging.
We expect that to continue for the next several quarters.
So our planning assumptions at this point is that we expect that challenging environment to continue through the first half of next year.
Our next question comes from Amitabh Passi from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Shaygan if I look at Juniper over the last 4 years you had an up year a down year an up year a down year.
And it seems like the company is becoming increasingly cyclical.
So I guess I wanted to get your thoughts.
We talk a lot about a lot of secular underlying drivers but we're not quite seeing it in your business.
And so would love to get your thoughts in terms of can we get a secular growth trajectory for Juniper or is the company increasingly now cyclical? Amitabh good question.
I mean if you look at the curves your statement is actually correct.
It looks like sinusoids going back many years.
But you also -- the other observation is the magnitude of the sinusoids are coming down in terms of how they swing.
What I can say is our business is increasingly diversified.
If you look at it this year Amitabh most of our growth has come from Web 2.0s a little bit from cable and so forth.
So our strategic vertical that these are selected we selected them for this specific purpose because we think be it cable carrier Web 2.0 financial services federal government and so forth these are the verticals that are going to carry us forward.
And we think while some are taller than others in terms of growth capability we think over the medium to long term they're going to be within -- I mean some of them are going to be within the same zone.
So we see continued diversity of revenue but we are -- traditionally has been -- we have a carrier base.
And as you know the carrier CapEx cycles do exist and it's something that we don't control industry spend.
And when they swing down we swing down with them.
And when they go up we go up with them.
But now we have these other 3 engines and we expect them to grow over time.
Robyn any more comments on that? I think -- I think that said it well.
I think also the question around the router cycles and whether we expect them to continue I think Rami can comment on that as well.
Sure happy to.
I mean when I look at the Routing fundamentals obviously the first thing you're going to look at is traffic.
And all our indication is that traffic continues to grow across all of our customer base whether it be the Web service providers telcos cable operators.
I think that's sort of a truth among all of them.
There are certainly trends that are happening in the industry and where -- these are obviously trends that we factor into our strategy.
But when you take a look at these trends whether they be Layer 4 to Layer 7 service virtualization or things like the virtualization of the CPE so low-end routing virtualization or SDN for the purpose of automation I view these as all largely complementary to our strategy.
So this is very much an opportunity for us.
It's very very difficult to virtualize the kind of product or I'd say impossible to virtualize the kind of product that solved the performance necessary to deal with capacity growth.
So this is why I'm confident in the long term.
Our next question comes from Pierre Felgaru (sic) [Pierre Ferragu] from Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So you -- on the Service Provider front you mentioned specific dynamics that prevent the carriers to spend in the near term.
I think we understand well what's happening in the U.S.
You have like the debate with Netflix.
You have like net neutrality.
You have ongoing merger discussions.
But what was very surprising this quarter is actually weakness of your revenues in the rest of the world.
You mentioned China.
You mentioned Eastern Europe.
You mentioned Japan as well.
Could you maybe review these geographies one by one? And maybe tell us -- it's probably like 2 3 major clients in each of them.
So it would be helpful to get some kind of color on what's happening what's creating this lack of visibility in these regions as well? Thanks Pierre for the question.
Actually we have Vince Molinaro here who is our Executive Vice President for go-to-market globally.
And he -- Vince can you respond to Pierre...
Sure.
Thanks.
Thanks for the question Pierre.
Like Robyn discussed and mentioned we were down in Asia Pacific primarily because of China and Japan largely due to Service Provider and a few projects that have come to conclusion.
And we have seen a first half with some real good design wins that will carry forward.
As I look into Q4 in Asia Pacific in general look to flat to slightly up.
And the reason for that from my perspective we're seeing growth in Korea Malaysia Indonesia Southeast Asia in general for opportunities for the broad portfolio.
Rami just mentioned traffic growth and specifically in that part of the world LTE and mobile build-outs presenting opportunities for us in access and aggregation in mobile backhaul as well as traditional core routing edge and security.
I'll also say in Asia Pacific the focus in our verticals is beginning to resonate with both our Service Provider and Enterprise customers particularly in Web and in cloud provider Web 2.0 companies in India and Japan.
So hopefully that rounds out the picture for you.
In EMEA -- in EMEA I kind of characterize that steady as they go.
Good first half.
And again as Robyn mentioned some geopolitical issues in Eastern Europe and Middle East.
We are seeing good traction with new design wins across the entire portfolio.
And again that is in our Enterprise and our Service Provider business across all verticals and even in the strategic verticals like higher education for example.
I think the other area of opportunity the European providers they typically invest as the demand presents itself.
Traffic is growing in EMEA 38% to 50% in the public space year-on-year.
High network utilization so we're -- and everything mobile.
And that growth is pretty significant.
So we're watching the industry dynamic and in the geographies that Robyn mentioned.
But in general we just see a steady trend going forward.
Our next question comes from Ehud Gelblum from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I have a couple of clarifications first before my question.
First of all Robyn I just want to make sure that you didn't mention anything about the 25% operating margin target for 2015.
If you can comment on that if that's still on the table.
You didn't mention it so I'll put that out there as a clarification.
Lower OpEx another clarification.
How much of that Robyn was reversal of prior bonus accruals so not really where the OpEx would've been if we were doing it on a quarter-by-quarter basis? Third Switching obviously fell pretty substantially and you gave some good reasons.
I'm assuming within that was it mainly the Web guys you're talking about? Are there other verticals that we should just be aware of in there? Was U.S.
Service Provider in there? And then finally Kathleen I know you're going to love this but AT&amp;T CapEx if you look at what they did they're obviously a big part of what you guys do and dictate a lot.
They were very strong in the first half of the year.
They haven't change their full year number $21 billion.
It's still pretty much set in stone.
So if you mapped out AT&amp;T's CapEx wireless wireline however you slice it the fall-off in Q3 and the further fall-off in Q4 was put in stone back in June July.
So what really did change as you went through this quarter that seemed to be a surprise versus what AT&amp;T was telling you? Was it kind of a mix in that CapEx number? Because the total CapEx number seems to kind of flow with what your new numbers are versus what you had previously thought going into the preannouncement.
Thank you Ehud.
So there were 4 comments there 2 clarifications 2 questions.
We will address 2 of them 1 clarification and 1 question.
Which would like them to be? Research Division</strong> Okay.
How about the lower OpEx bonus accruals for the clarification and then the AT&amp;T CapEx question for the question.
Okay.
All right.
You got it.
Thanks Ehud.
So I'll address the OpEx question.
So you're right we did have some variable comp in the quarter in Q3.
I actually called it out in the script.
We said it was about $10 million in terms of the fourth quarter guidance.
So in other words we did 4 -- we're putting out $480 million plus or minus $5 million.
There's about $8 million to $10 million in there that's variable-comp related.
Yes.
And Ehud on your second question obviously we don't comment on any specific customer.
So let me make my comments general.
And in fact I read your report.
Nice job on the one you've just recently written on another customer on the same issue.
And I think it's -- you can project that to my comments.
So it's -- as you said it's the mix and where service providers are spending their money and what part of the network.
That's the answer to the question essentially.
And so it is -- if that's in the mix area that is the answer to the question.
Thanks Ehud.
The next question comes from Jeff Kvaal from Northland.
Research Division</strong> My question is I think a number of us on this side do worry a little bit about the declining R&amp;D budget and to make sure that the pipeline continues to generate the technical -- technically leading products that you are known for.
Could you give us a little bit -- perhaps maybe a bit of an example of how you can be reducing the R&amp;D and yet continuing to not suffer from a thinner pipeline of product or maybe an example of where the efficiency has come into play? I think that would be helpful.
So Jeff I'll make a few comments and I'll then have Rami go into perhaps examples and give more color.
So first of all in the whole Integrated Operating Plan the issue has been focus and unleashing the talent of our best R&amp;D and go-to-market people for innovation.
And so we said that many many times we know R&amp;D is the lifeblood of this company.
In fact I am super excited about the product pipeline and this is not infinity.
This is in front of us.
So you should rest assured that innovation and engineering and product pipeline is healthy.
It's broad.
It's deep and it's very exciting.
And so you should just rest assured on that.
And we are very focused to ensure that our R&amp;D is focused on things that matter to the customers where the market is going and making sure that we are not wasting our resources in areas that don't matter.
Now with that I'll pass it to Rami.
Sure.
So most of if not all of the changes that we've done in R&amp;D to reduce the OpEx have been structural in nature.
So it's around streamlining the organization in such a way that allows us to deduplicate functions that were quite frankly duplicated only because of the organizational design.
So that has been eliminated.
Beyond that we've been very very vigilant with respect to the priorities of the projects that we're working on making sure that everything that we are working on is aligned 100% with the company's strategy.
And as you know we've said in the past that has resulted in stopping development of certain projects and products.
So there are a number of pre-revenue-generating projects we were working on that we are not anymore.
We just divested the Pulse business as you are aware of not because it's a bad business but because of the fact that we could not invest in it ourselves and also all of the other things that we know we need to do for the company's strategy.
The last thing I will say is now that all of R&amp;D is in a single organization one of the fundamental tenets if you will of our engineering principles is to leverage is to make sure that all of our technology components across silicon systems and software are highly leverageable across all of our product lines.
And this is something that we're very much executing towards.
Thanks Rami.
Our next question comes from Mark Sue from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> If I look at the year-over-year decline it's actually the worst in the company's history since the IPO.
And that's despite the company being more diversified and despite traffic growing every single year.
So underneath the cyclical nature is there a fundamental change that's going on in the business? Is there an increasing structural issue price deflation shifts in purchasing power by carriers? And if that's the case we understand you're addressing the OpEx for the cyclical part but what are the plans to address the structural part? Mark yes.
I think if you look at the numbers the overwhelming majority of this is carriers.
It's U.S.
carriers.
It is the cyclical nature of their buying.
Once you open that cover there are things.
There are pluses and minuses and they always are in the business.
But I would say is that is the bulk of the issue that we saw in the third quarter.
Robyn do want to say a few words on that? No I think that covered it actually.
Next question comes from Simona Jankowski from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask a clarification and a question as well.
Just on the clarification again I wanted to follow up on the question on 25% operating margin for next year if that's still on the table as your target.
And then my question was just digging in a little bit into the Switching business given the sharp decline there.
Can you just characterize for us a little bit how lumpy that business is in terms of customer concentration? Are there are a handful of maybe 10% 15% customers in there that could have driven the magnitude that we saw in the decline? Simona I'll take a crack at that quickly at both and then on the second one I'll pass it again to Rami.
So on the first one 25% is our long-term target and very achievable.
The visibility to revenue as you know has turned quite poor just in the past 6 weeks.
If you look at the CapEx numbers from the big carriers you would see how they have changed and it's just the past 4 to 6 weeks.
What we control is our costs our products our customer relationships the design wins.
All of those are well in hand.
We've got great customer relationships a lot of design wins.
On the costs we have given you definitive numbers which is 1.9 minus 25 plus 25.
And based on our track record on our costs so far you can see how we come with costs.
We're doing that while preserving ability to invest sufficiently for growth despite the challenging environment.
And when you put it all together we're going to expand operating margins significantly from 2014 to 2015.
And this is just arithmetic this number depends on revenue.
And revenue we don't control industry spend.
The visibility is poor.
And these things can change very quickly.
They have just in the past 6 weeks.
And so whenever -- and we are constructive on the second half of this year.
We think we're going to get growth back.
That will depend on the revenue number.
But we are very focused on the 25% and we think it's very achievable as a long-term target.
Switching.
So should I comment on Switching? Simona so first to your question about concentration.
Certainly there is a Service Provider and an Enterprise component to our Switching business.
The Service Provider component tends to be fewer larger deals fewer larger customers than the Enterprise.
That's natural.
We've always said that the SP portion is going to be lumpy and this quarter was certainly an example of that.
And I would say I mean we're certainly disappointed in our results.
I think we can and will do better in Switching.
So what gives me confidence about the Switching business going forward? First is we've had a number of wins that just haven't yet been -- gone into deployment mode that will kick in in future quarters.
Second is if you take a look at what we've done in Switching in terms of R&amp;D over the last couple of years is we've realigned the organization.
We've focused it on a new strategy and product roadmap and we're now just starting to see the results of that strategy in terms of new products like the QFX5100 being a great example of that.
But we're not done yet and there's more to come.
And I have a lot of confidence in what is more to come in terms of our ability to grow this business.
And I'll just pass it to Vince for performance.
Yes.
Now let me just tag on that Rami with respect to Shaygan mentioned the vertical focus and the customer differentiation.
We're starting to see both in Service Provider and in Enterprise a number of data center wins to leverage the portfolio and positioning forward especially in the massively scalable data centers.
We're seeing a much broader architectural conversation that puts us in a position for continued growth.
So I'm excited about that.
And then automation and everything else that's going on relative to the environment in the data center looking forward to again diversity and portfolio of customers where we have applications that position and drive our Switching business.
So thanks.
Yes.
And I'll just wrap it up Simona on -- as Rami and Vince said I'm actually very encouraged by all of the vertical engagements on Switching and the design wins and I'm enthusiastic about the ramp in 2015.
Thanks Simona.
Our next question comes from Brian Modoff from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I think when you [indiscernible] data about whether it's a cyclical issue in Routing or if there's something more structural going on like maybe Metro Optical using that Switching substitution for some of the Routing.
The question is really around Switching in terms of -- are you guys planning to do a spine switch? This is clearly an area as you note that you could see some growth in because there's still growth in Switching and you have a small market share.
So are you going to do anything architecturally to really get into that market in a bigger way? Brian we obviously are not here to unveil our product roadmap.
Suffice it to say as I said I'm personally very excited about it.
And I think it was Brian's report we just recently read right? We have a lot of comments on that but that we'll take up online.
But Rami can you sort of take that? Sure.
So look on the Switching side I'll just sort of revert back to what I mentioned for Simona which is that we're not done with our roadmap.
We're not going to get into specifics on this call.
But I think there's a lot of confidence all around on our roadmap.
And in terms of talking to customers we're getting a lot of very positive feedback on the roadmap.
As far as Metro optical and so forth there are certainly trends and aspirations by all involved in that market.
And one can easily talk about IP and packet-based transport and so forth but actually executing on that there aren't that many people in the world that can effectively do it and do it competitively and scalably.
So for that reason I'm not 100% sure I agree with the premise that there is sort of this long-drawn-out trend if you will in Routing where everything will move to optical.
I just don't buy it.
That said there are -- there is an evolution in architectures for the Metro and even for the core where the packet and optical demands will be much closely integrated together.
This will be done with things like intelligent software that can balance traffic more effectively across the 2 layers also done in terms of automation.
And if you look at our product roadmap with respect to for example NorthStar this is the controller that does exactly that.
It does it with our own packet technology and partner optical technology.
And we're seeing actually some very good interest from customers.
I think it's early but we're seeing very good interest from customers on such approaches.
Thank you.
Thank you Brian.
Our next question comes from Ben Reitzes from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Back to the Switching question.
Could you just -- I think the Enterprise number for Switching might have been below as well what you were thinking at the beginning of the quarter.
And what did you notice competitively there with Cisco ramping new products and Arista doing things? And I guess everybody's asking 2 questions so I'll sneak one other in there.
Strategically you guys have done the IOP and the Junos divestiture.
But is there any other strategic options on the table? Anything else that we should be thinking about that you have in your ability to enhance shareholder value that we haven't looked at yet in the analyst community? Ben I'll make a couple of quick comments and then I'll pass it around.
So on Switching we are actually quite bullish about our Switching products.
They really shine most where scale sophistication openness programmability hardened IP protocols those things matter.
And so we are very bullish about that.
As far as your comment your second comment we -- as a matter of course we review our portfolio regularly.
And we are in that sort of phase and that's how our process works.
So we do that regularly.
But Rami can you take a crack on the Enterprise question specifically? Yes.
I mean most of the -- most of what affected us in Q3 in Switching was on the SP -- in SPs.
And that's again the lumpier portion of our business.
There was also a broader Enterprise component but it was a minor component compared to the SP side.
As far as strategy is concerned it's scoring and winning more and more of the opportunities from customers that truly like Shaygan said value high capacity and high scale.
And those customers tend to be fewer and larger.
So there is -- again there's that lumpiness component to it.
And then also like I said there is still an element to our product roadmap that has not yet been completed that I think is going to be necessary to make sure that we continue the growth.
So that's again what it is that we're counting on for continued growth in the future.
And I think from a customer perspective you've seen the announcement on Nike and that is a complete portfolio but switch-led.
And those are the kinds of opportunities when you take the full portfolio leveraging the competence and capability of our switch platform allows us to get into these global data centers allows us to provide the agility both on a converged campus as well as among data centers to deliver private cloud.
And so I think that's a good example and it's just a ramp and replication of more opportunities like that where we either lead with routing and pull the switch or lead with switch and pull the broader portfolio.
And then I -- think about MetaFabric in general which is the Routing Switching Security where we can lead with that enabling switch technology and pull through the entire portfolio and create that end-to-end solution for customers like Nike and others that we're winning designs around that need to move into production.
But it is that better together with leveraging the switch and pulling the rest.
MetaFabric is I think a perfect example of that.
Thank you Ben.
Our next question comes from Kulbinder from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I guess my question is that you spoke before Shaygan about the product cycle and it normally lasts 2 to 4 quarters.
I guess the question is -- this still seems to have materially surprised Juniper.
So my question is what is it about the product cycle that surprised you this time and transpired because you -- you have had these cycles before but this seems to have caught Juniper by surprise again.
And I guess just linked to that I guess the secular concern would be is there something more serious competitive going on and how would you respond to that kind of concern? Yes I mean it's a good question.
It's difficult to call cycles.
I think there are a number of analysts on this call right now and I'm not sure how many of us would have called the cycle.
And as I said in addition to that there is some -- what also complicated it in terms of visibility Kul is some specific industry dynamics that is going on.
So those 2 together make visibility quite poor and the industry dynamics isn't one.
It's probably I would say half a dozen things and some of them are different on one customer than the other.
And then on top of it you've got the sinusoid with noise fluctuating around it.
So I guess that's the answer.
And we all wished that we could tell the cycles but we didn't see it and I don't think many people did either.
And in fact just in the past 6 weeks we've gotten -- the numbers have moved on CapEx as well on the area that we work.
Research Division</strong> I guess just on the...
Rami do you have any other comments? Go ahead Kulbinder and then we'll take one more question.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I guess my question and follow-up would be just you mentioned the need for revenue diversity.
With the new products the new projects is it fair to say that you would have the revenue diversity in a year that you can mitigate some of this going forward beyond that? Is that what it might take to get this diversity of revenue that you think Juniper might need? Yes.
I think Kulbinder on the diversity of revenue that obviously takes time.
And we will have more information next week at the Investor Day on how diverse some of our revenue has gotten over the last 5 years.
But to Shaygan's point we obviously still have some concentration around carriers.
And in particular when those cycles happen sometimes it's very difficult to get visibility into the depth or breadth of the cycle.
And so you're right the depth of it did exceed our expectations in this quarter.
But our view is at this point that we're planning for the revenue environment to be challenging.
And we've obviously taken appropriate actions in terms of the cost structure and making sure that we're investing in the right things over the right period of time to catch the wave of growth as we come out of this cycle.
And that's what the team is very focused on doing.
Thanks Robyn.
Thanks Kul.
Thank you.
We have time for one more question.
Our last question comes from Ittai Kidron from Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> She's been killing names all night.
Ittai.
Yes.
I guess my question is more on the incremental OpEx cuts.
Shaygan Robyn I know cuts are never easy.
And when you first announced the IOP plan you had a very heavy OpEx structure where I would say on a relative basis it was easier to identify the cost-cutting.
I guess the question from here how easy or difficult is it to squeeze that extra $100 million out there? Are the things that you need to do a bit more structural and longer in duration in order to squeeze those cuts? Or they can be -- whether either easily identified or quickly extracted? Can you give us some color on the process there? That would be great.
Ittai yes we did IOP that we announced in February for $160 million.
We are doing $100 million more.
On a year-over-year basis it's $130 million more in OpEx savings that we are doing.
It's a variety of actions.
I would say the first $160 million we did it was tilted more heavily towards the structural things we need to do.
Robyn will talk to some of that.
This one we've got a little bit of that.
But we also in IOP said that we are also sharpening that muscle of continuous focus on efficiency and ensuring that all our dollars go to where it matters most.
And this is a reflection of the company strengthening that muscle to be able to take yet another 130 million year-over-year out while preserving a very exciting R&amp;D portfolio and as Robyn said be in a position to catch the revenue growth that from a planning perspective we are announcing in the second half of next year.
Robyn? Yes I think Shaygan said it well.
What we're trying to do -- what we are doing is continuing to sharpen our focus in terms of productivity and efficiency across the company.
And as you could see by the results for the third quarter we are ahead of plan of the original IOP.
And so our view is that we can take these additional costs out.
It's never easy to take cost out as you mentioned in your question.
But with the right focus and the right attention doing that deliberately across the company by managing headcount and continuing to work through discretionary expenses as well as effectiveness and efficiency across the company.
And the team's very well aligned around that.
Thanks Ittai.
Okay.
That is all the time we have today.
We'd like to thank you for participating on the call and your great questions in some cases clarifications.
And we look forward to speaking with you next quarter.
Thank you.
Bye-bye.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings.
And welcome to the Juniper Networks Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Kathleen Nemeth Investor Relations for Juniper Networks.
Thank you Ms.
Nemeth.
You may now begin.
Thank you Operator.
Good afternoon.
And welcome to our fourth quarter and fiscal year 2014 conference call.
Joining me today are Rami Rahim Chief Executive Officer; and Robyn Denholm Chief Financial and Operations Officer.
Today's call may contain forward-looking statements including statements concerning Juniper's business outlook economic and market outlook strategy future financial operating results capital return program the expected amount of our impairment charge and overall future prospects.
Actual results might differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to materially differ from those in the forward-looking statements are listed in our most recent 10-Q and the press release furnished with our 8-K filed with the SEC today.
All statements made during this call are made only as of today.
Juniper undertakes no obligation to update the information in this conference call in the event facts or circumstances change after the date of the call.
Our discussion of the financial results today will include non-GAAP results.
Unless otherwise noted revenue growth rates have been normalized for the sale of the Junos Pulse business.
For important commentary on why our management team considers non-GAAP information a useful view of the company's financial results please consult the press release furnished with our 8-K filed with the SEC today.
Full GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation information our earnings release and the presentation slides for this call can be found on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.juniper.net.
Please note that today’s call is scheduled to last for one hour and please limit your questions to one per phone.
With that I'll turn the call over to Rami.
Thanks Kathleen and welcome everyone.
I am delighted to join you today on my first quarterly conference call as CEO of Juniper.
First let’s talk about what we have accomplished and what I see ahead.
2014 was a year of significant change for Juniper.
We made major strides having implemented a series of initiative designed to streamline our organization reduced our cost structure improve our balance sheet return capital to our shareholders and drive long-term profitable growth in a challenging revenue environment.
In many areas we exceeded our commitment by working in a more efficient manner with greater accountability and customer connectiveness.
And while we achieved much in 2014 I recognize that there is still more we can do to realize the full potential of our company.
Rest assured we are moving with urgency.
We are very excited about the changes that are taking place in the industry and inside Juniper and we believe that our best days are still ahead.
To that end let me share with you what I have been up to in my first few months as CEO.
I have spent considerable time talking and listening to our customers our partners and our employees.
Working with the senior leadership team I set out key execution initiatives for 2015 aligned with our R&amp;D and go-to-market strategy in the areas of routing switching and security for both service providers and enterprise customers.
I appointed Jonathan Davidson as Head of Juniper’s Development and Innovation or JDI to ensure a smooth transition and uninterrupted focus on our product roadmap.
Jonathan is an accomplished leader and technologist who knows how to bring focus and clarity to developing the innovative products our customers require.
I moved network automation project that have graduated out of the incubation phase from the office of the CTO to JDI to ensure tighter alignment with the rest of our portfolio and end-to-end solution development.
And I oversaw a comprehensive review of the security components of our business including our capabilities and product roadmap.
While my new role at Juniper now has the added dimension of ensuring that our business performs across a range of metric I will as I always have try to ensure we build and deliver great products that advance the state-of-the-art and network innovation and drive long-term growth for the company.
I’ll spend some time now articulating our strategy.
How we plan to execute against our vision and our 2015 initiatives.
First our strategy we will deliver the most scalable reliable secure and cost effective networks while revolutionizing their agility efficiency and value through automation.
We will focus on customers and partners across our key verticals who view these network attributes as fundamental to their businesses.
Product and solution differentiation with the relentless customer focus will allow us to achieve our primary goal of growing revenue faster than the market.
Second on execution our innovation engine is running stronger than ever and we are executing on a compelling product roadmap that will drive future growth across routing switching and security.
I'm very excited about our product pipeline which has never been better and will offer our customers break through performance and impressive capabilities unmatched in the industry.
In security I acknowledge that it has underperformed and we recorded a non-cash goodwill impairment charge during the quarter.
2015 will be a year of stabilizing our security revenue.
To win insecurity we are pivoting our strategy to building integrated solutions that focus our network resiliency and business continuity across cloud data center branch campus and service provider mobile infrastructure.
To emphasis we are focusing on areas where we can compete effectively and I am confident that we will do just that.
And importantly we will be employing a high leverage development strategy that takes advantage of the existing and ongoing innovation within Juniper.
Our common threat through all of this is our Junos based SRX platform which is adaptable to serve all of this environment and can accommodate the security needs of any number of different use cases.
With this new strategy in effect we will be delivering substantial enhancements to the SRX platform in 2015 and they will be closely intertwined with the network.
We believe this new approach will allow us to deliver superior offering and we have energized team focus on helping our customer get in front of their security challenges.
Our exciting product portfolio along with our focus go-to-market models are coming together to create real competitive advantage for our customers.
We have a sound strategy in place we are executing well against our plan and we continue to make progress with new design wins and diversification of our business across our target verticals and geographies.
I’d like to turn now to the macroenvironment and our business.
I am confident in Juniper’s future and I see substantial opportunities to grow and deliver value over the long-term.
In the near-term we continue to face headwinds in U.S.
carrier spending.
However we do expect an improvement in spending in the later half of this year.
We have signaled in July of 2014 that the market was going to be challenging and we ran our business under the assumption that it would be so for the full four quarters cycles that we have historical seen.
Based on recent conversations with our customers we still expect that to be the case with a return to growth in investment in the second half of this year.
Although 2014 routing revenue declined 4% the diversity of our business helped offset the decline from U.S.
carriers.
We continue to see growth in routing from cloud providers cable financial services and strategic enterprise customers that are building and operating their own network infrastructure.
In switching we are just at the early stages of an exciting journey of growth.
It will be more to come from me over time on this topic as we take a leap in performance in automation in the datacenter switching space.
Let me announce that expectations moving forward.
While we navigate industry and customer dynamics in the near term we have continued to focus on things that matter most to our customers and our shareholders.
There are no changes to our planning assumption.
Juniper remains committed to the financial targets we set out at our Investor Day last October where we stated an overall growth rate of 3% to 6% over the next three years.
We are continuing to manage the business prudently.
We maintain our stated non-GAAP OpEx target of $1.9 billion plus or minus $25 million.
We are also committed to continuing the aggressive capital return plans that we have been executing again.
To summarize our team remains steadfast.
We will drive profitable growth and develop and deliver the innovative IP networking products and solutions that our customers rely on.
We will continue to be intensely focused on operational excellence cost discipline and targeted growth initiative.
I will be monitoring our business closely and will report on our progress quarterly.
In closing I thank our employees for their resiliency through a year of much change.
Juniper employees around the world continue to focus on executing as one Juniper.
And I’m proud of and grateful for their dedication.
I also appreciate the continued support of our shareholders partners and customers.
Now I’ll turn it over to Robyn to provide more details of our financial results and our revenue outlook for the first quarter of 2015.
Thank you Rami and good afternoon everyone.
Before I review the Q4 and full year results I want to update you on our restructuring and share repurchases as well as give you the context of the goodwill impairment charge.
We have completed the restructuring actions that we first announced in February of 2014.
In Q4 we exceeded our expense reduction commitment and implemented the additional structural actions to achieve the $1.9 billion plus or minus $25 million OpEx target for 2015.
As Rami mentioned one of the actions we completed during the quarter was the tightened focus of our security portfolio allowing us to dedicate our security resources to the SRX platform.
Total restructuring and asset write-down charges for Q4 were approximately $29 million and for the full year 2014 were $209 million.
We also finalized the sale of Junos Pulse and recorded $20 million net gain.
We are executing very well on our capital return plans.
We paid a quarterly dividend of $0.10 per share in December and repurchased $500 million of shares in Q4.
For 2014 we have returned $2.3 billion of capital to shareholders and we are reaffirming our commitment to return a total of $4.1 billion to our shareholders through 2016.
Overall I’m very pleased with our cost structure and the progress that we’ve made towards achieving the capital return commitments we made to our shareholders.
Now I’d like to address the goodwill impairment charge that we recorded in Q4.
As required under GAAP accounting rules we will perform a regular review of the carrying value of goodwill.
During Q4 this review resulted in an estimated non-cash impairment charge of $850 million related to the goodwill of our security reporting unit.
There are several factors which contributed to this impairment including the recent underperformance of this reporting unit and our assets to refocus our security offerings in addition to the divestitures of Junos Pulse.
Combined these factors result in a delay in achieving revenue and profit forecast needed to support the historical security goodwill valuation.
I want to remind everyone that this accounting charge has no direct effect on Juniper’s cash balance operating cash flows or business outlook.
We remain committed to the long-term growth targets that we outlined at our October investor meeting.
Now let’s return to an analysis of the Q4 result.
As a reminder the following revenue commentary and growth rates have been normalized for the sale of Junos Pulse.
Overall revenue and demands of the fourth quarter was better than we expected.
However the things that we have discussed over the last six months remain consistent.
That is large U.S.
carrier demand continues to be vague but has been somewhat offset by healthy demand from cloud providers and cable customers pockets of momentum in EMEA and APAC service providers and improving enterprise demand.
Looking at our demand metrics products book to bill was much greater than one.
We exceeded 2014 with about $445 million in product backlog.
Total revenue for the quarter was $1 102 billion down 11% year-over-year and up 1% sequentially.
Product revenue was $794 million down 17% from last year and essentially flat quarter-over-quarter.
Services revenue was $308 million up 8% year-over-year and 2% from the prior quarter.
Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share were $0.41 excluding the benefit of the R&amp;D tax credit of $0.03 non-GAAP diluted earnings would have been down $0.05 per share year-over-year and up $0.02 sequentially.
The year-over-year decrease was primarily due to lower revenue partially offset by the cost reductions and the positive impact of $0.06 from reduced checkout.
The sequential increase was largely driven by improvements in our cost structure.
For the quarter GAAP loss per share was $1.81 which includes the $850 million impact from the goodwill impairment charge.
Excluding this impairment charge diluted earnings per share would have been $0.19.
Included in this result is $0.07 impact for restructuring and other charges and $0.04 benefit from the renewal of the R&amp;D tax credit and a $0.05 benefit from the gain of the sale of Junos Pulse.
Now let’s look at revenue results in detail by the product area.
Routing product revenue was $523 million down 15% year-over-year and a 2% decline from the prior quarter.
Year-over-year decline was driven by weakness from our large U.S.
carriers partially offset by strength in cloud providers.
Switching product revenue was $174 million a decrease of 12% year-over-year primarily due to declines in enterprise.
Quarter-over-quarter switching product revenue increased 13% driven by demand from cloud providers and financial services for our QFX products.
Security product revenue was $97 million rather disappointing 28% year-over-year and 9% sequentially.
The decrease was due to a decline in the SRX platform from U.S.
carrier customers as well as the continued declines from ScreenOS products.
Moving on to gross margins and operating expenses.
Non-GAAP gross margins for the quarter were 64.1% compared to 64.2% a year ago and the elevated level of 65.2% last quarter.
Non-GAAP product gross margins were 64.3% down six-tenths of a point from a year ago and 1.8 points from last quarter.
The expected sequential decline was primarily attributable to a shift in product and geography mix.
Non-GAAP services gross margins was 63.6% up 1.7 points from a year ago and six-tenths of a point quarter-over-quarter.
This increase was due to lower support-related costs from operational improvements and variable cost savings.
We are pleased to report that our non-GAAP operating expenses were $465 million below our guidance range and down $74 million or 14% year-over-year.
This reflects the implementation of the additional cost savings commitment announced on our Q3 2014 earnings call as well as the significant benefit from the reduction in variable expenses in the quarter.
Our headcount ended the year at 8 806 a decline of 677 employees or 7% year-over-year.
Non-GAAP operating margins for the quarter were 21.9% flat year-over-year despite lower revenue.
This is due to our significant focus on cost reduction efforts.
The non-GAAP tax rate was 21% down 6.1 points from the prior quarter primarily due to the $13 million of one-time benefits from the renewal of the R&amp;D tax credit for 2014.
The GAAP tax expense in the quarter was $75 million on a GAAP loss of $694 million resulting in a negative tax rate of 11%.
The GAAP loss is due to the goodwill impairment charge which is the non-deductible tax item.
The GAAP tax rate this quarter was also impacted by the gain on the sale of Junos Pulse.
Now I’d like to discuss the 2014 full year results.
Total revenue was $4 532 billion approximately flat from last year.
For the full year large U.S.
carrier revenues declined offset by an increase from cloud providers and cables and a steady performance from enterprise.
While we are not happy with the overall results we are successfully achieving diversification of our customer service and increasing the relevance of our products across multiple customers’ segment.
We are adding product revenues and finished the year down 4% primarily due to the softness from U.S.
carriers in the second half.
Switching product revenue was up 13% for the full year driven by growth from cloud providers.
Security product revenue was down 14% for the full year.
This decrease was primarily due to a decline in the legacy ScreenOS products.
Non-GAAP gross margin was 64.3% for the full year approximately flat with 2013.
This is a good result and represents the value our customers’ same innovation as well as our intense focus on supply chain cost reductions.
The benefits of which offsets both revenue mix changes and the normal levels of pricing pressure.
I’m pleased with the improvement in our overall cost structure.
We ended the year with $2.15 billion of non-GAAP operating expenses down $88 million or 4% from 2013.
This decrease in OpEx allowed us to expand non-GAAP operating margins by 1.5 points to end the full year at 20.7% despite the challenging revenue environment.
Non-GAAP diluted earnings were $1.45 up $0.17 or 13% year-over-year.
This increase was primarily due to positive impact of approximately $0.12 per share from a reduction in share count of 9% year-over-year as well as significantly lower operating expenses for the full year.
GAAP loss per share was $0.73 which includes the impact from the goodwill impairment charge.
Excluding this charge GAAP diluted earnings per share would have been $1.11 inclusive of the $0.45 impact of restructuring and other charges.
We ended the fourth quarter with approximately $1.8 billion of net cash and investments.
The decline from Q3 was primarily due to the capital return of $542 million in the quarter.
For the quarter we generated good operating cash flow of $291 million and $763 million for the full year.
DSO was 49 days which is flat from last quarter.
During 2014 in order to foster our channel business and reduce our expenses we transition some of that distributor financing to Juniper’s balance sheet through a targeted financial services program with certain partners.
Going forward we expect DSO to be in a range of 45 to 55 days.
Now I will provide an outlook for Q1 of 2015.
As a reminder these metrics are provided on a non-GAAP basis except for revenue and share count.
We continue to expect that demand environment for our largest U.S.
carrier customers to be challenging throughout the first half of 2015.
As we have said we are two quarters into what we expect to be a full quarter cycle and as a result we remain cautious in our revenue planning assumption.
For the first quarter of 2015 we expect revenues to range from $1.20 billion to $1.60 billion.
Gross margins are expected to be 63.5% plus or minus 0.5% at the lower end of our long-term range due to the lower volume.
Operating expenses are expected to be $475 million plus or minus $5 million and as a reminder our Q4 2014 results included a significant benefit of variable cost savings.
We remain focused on our cost structure and we are committed to managing expenses throughout 2015.
Operating margins are expected to be approximately 18% at the midpoint of guidance.
And we expect the non-GAAP tax rate to be 27% for the first quarter assuming no extensions of the R&amp;D tax credit for 2015.
We expect diluted earnings per share of between $0.28 and $0.32 per share assuming a weighted average share count of approximately $420 million.
I’m also pleased to report that the Board has approved a dividend of $0.10 per share for the first quarter.
I would like to thank our teams for their continued dedication and commitment to Juniper’s success.
Now let’s open the call for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Pierre Ferragu of Sanford Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thank you for taking my question.
Maybe on your -- on all the comments you’ve made on the service provider outlook do you have a sense from technicians you had with your clients of what drove so relatively sudden slowdown in spending that started about a couple of quarters ago? And/or so what would be the driver behind like recovering spending in the second half of the year? And then beyond the -- of course beyond the U.S.
and the rest of the world if you could give us a bit of flavor of how the service provider business is likely to reply for you in 2015.
What I am wondering of course is if we have a recovery in the second half of 2015 in the U.S.
and if it becomes more clearly visual for you is there a risk of seeing the sustaining in the rest of the world? Thank you.
Okay.
Thank you Pierre.
So let me just address your first question which is around the service provider outlook primarily here in the United States.
There are number of factors that we look at.
Obviously as we talk to our customers and we engage with them very closely number one would be things around the timing of projects that we’ve been working with them on.
We are looking obviously at macro trends that are happening around M&amp;A activity the investment split between wireline and wireless that are large service provider customers that are currently expecting to undertake spectrum auctions.
All of these have contributed to our assessment but it makes sense for us at this point to maintain our prudent outlook looking forward and manage our business accordingly.
Now that said we are engaging with them on an ongoing basis.
And based on that engagement the timing of projects and so forth we do anticipate that their investment levels would start to recover in the second half of this year.
On your second question which is more around the geo-profile for service providers and maybe more broadly speaking let me just touch on the Juniper business as it pertains to our performance across the globe.
And I will touch on it more from a service provider standpoint because I believe that’s what you’re interested in just from your question.
In EMEA I am actually pleased with our performance and the momentum that we’re seeing both in the smaller Tier 2 Tier 3 service providers that have really adopted a number of our products especially our MX and PTX products as a build-out converged infrastructures and we are actually seeing some good momentum in the quarter as well in the Q4 timeframe.
And in APAC there its bit more of a complex answer because I think the situation in places like China is somewhat different than the outside of China.
In China we have to be very laser-focused on opportunities that we believe we actually have a good chance of winning and it’s very much a partner-led model in doing so.
And that can result in some lumpiness.
Now we actually had some good sequential performance in China in Q4.
But generally speaking as I said that could be lumpy.
More broadly speaking outside of China as you look at South Asia for example there based on a number of wins that we’ve had historically and ongoing projects that we are working on we are actually doing quite well and I am pleased with our performance there.
And I expect that to continue throughout this year in 2015.
Thank you.
Next question please.
Thank you.
The next question is from Ehud Gelblum of Citigroup.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Thank you.
Appreciate it.
Couple of things.
First of all Rami just an open-ended question I know it’s been more specific.
But the open-end question is what difference are you -- you’re making a lot of difference I’m sure but what different strategies have you set in place vis-à-vis website I was doing when you first came in and I did a full review of the product portfolio and took a look at couple businesses continues posting one of that sold? Are there any other fundamental things that you’re changing or are you basically just taking current strategy that was there before that you obviously had a lot to do with and continuing it nicely? I have a follow-up that’s more specific [indiscernible]? Okay.
Let me address that question thanks Ehud.
So first yes you are right you have to keep in mind that I was a part of the leadership team that developed created that strategy and it’s a strategy that I very much believe in.
It’s a strategy that from a go-to-market standpoint is laser-focused on key verticals that we believe will value the types of technologies and products that we develop and where we have the maximum chance of success.
It’s a strategy where from an R&amp;D standpoint we’re really executing on the performance scale capabilities that customers require but just as importantly the software-driven innovation around automation absolutely fundamental.
So that all remains absolutely intact.
And we are executing towards that.
There are changes or twist to the strategy as it pertains to security.
I mentioned some of that in my prepared remarks upfront.
But just to reiterate we are pivoting away from thinking about security from a standpoint of Point products.
We are moving much more towards integrated solutions across switching routing and security that address domain level problems that our customers want from us.
And we are executing on a very high leverage strategy and engineering across switching routing and security.
I will just say that there are tremendous assets across silicon and routing or as I should say silicon and software that have largely gone untapped for security.
And we have this incredible opportunity as a part as a function of this new strategy to leverage these assets to give us relatively quick gains in the performance scale and capabilities of our security products and that’s exactly what we’re going to be executing on now.
You had a follow-up.
Go ahead.
Okay.
The next question.
Certainly the next question is from Simona Jankowski with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thanks very much.
I just wanted to ask how much visibility you have into the ramp in the second half with some of your U.S.
carrier customers and specifically the timing of the domain sort of ramp that you’ve been designed into? And taking that into account assuming that those customers can normalize in the second half do you think it’s possible for your revenues for the year to grow as a whole? Okay.
So as far as the service provider timing nobody has a crystal ball that tells us exactly what is going to be.
But again based on the data that we gathered from our customer on an ongoing basis and understanding of the macro trends we do believe second half will resume the growth that we had anticipated as we have said earlier Simona.
I can’t really talk about any specific projects but I will say this we are very tightly aligned with our large service provider customers both here in the U.S.
and outside of the U.S.
Everybody many of our customers are looking at new approach to delivering services to their end users using cloud-based service delivery models.
And I believe that we are very well-positioned with the products that we have [Technical Difficulty] having the strategy that we’re executing on to set ourselves up to participate in the growth once it resumes.
So I can’t talk about any specific projects but I can say products like our virtual MX products like the virtual SRX or what we call the Firefly that really represent a new way of service delivery using cloud-based models are exactly the kind of products that our customers are requesting today.
And I think set ourselves up for success when spending starts to recover.
Next question please.
Thank you.
The next question is from Ashwin Kesireddy of JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my question.
Rami could you comment on the strength in switching and how should we think about that going forward? Any color you could provide on the drivers of market share gains will be helpful.
And I was hoping you could elaborate on some of the security features you’re planning to add to SRX and give us more concrete timelines on when you’re planning to add these new features.
And then I’ve got one question for Robyn.
I was trying to understand some of the factors that could have influenced the timing of the impairment.
Why did you decide to pay that now? Is it just due to normal year end process? Are there any changes in customer contracts or other factors that could have led to this? Okay.
Thanks for the question.
Let me start with the switching and security and then I’ll pass it over to Robyn for your last question.
On the switching side I think you need to keep in mind that around two two and a half years ago we took a step back and under -- and we set up a new strategy in switching or we took a lot of lessons that we had learned from the first set of products that we introduced into the market in the roadmap that we are now executing towards.
So if you look at what we just announced last year our QFX5100 our OCX1100 product which is essentially a Junos-based white box switch.
These are just the beginning of what I would consider a very compelling product roadmap that our customers are going to respond very well to in switching.
And I have alluded to in the past and I will just reiterate again that we will continue the rolling thunder if you will of new products and switching this year that will contribute to the momentum that we expect.
Now there are two dimensions to our switching business.
There is of course the enterprise and the service provider.
Service provider dimension has always been somewhat lumpy and as a result of that predicting the ups and downs is not going to be all that easy but I expect to continue to take market share in switching as a result of our go-to-market focus and our product strategy.
In security I can't really get into the timing although you'll find out when we make the public announcements.
I will just say that I'm very excited and encouraged by what the team has accomplished thus far.
And just to give you a clue because it is a high leverage strategy it does not involve a large amount of time.
We’re essentially leveraging technologies that we have already developed in the company but now packaging them up and testing them in a way that they contribute to our security capabilities.
And they will be capabilities from the standpoint of performance scale and our ability to detect and stop threat factors in the competition.
Robyn? And so Ashwin let me just address the goodwill and the timing of the impairment charge.
We do a regular review of the current value of goodwill as required under GAAP.
In Q4 the underperformance of the security revenues continued and so we took another look at that.
In Q4 we also took into account the other factors that I mentioned in my prepared remarks around the restructuring that we have done in that business area in the security roadmaps and then also the pivot on the strategy as well.
So all of those as Rami mentioned before culminated after his review of the security portfolio and so it’s the combination of factors.
It’s not one factor that led us to impair the goodwill the continuing underperformance and the product rationalization that we’ve completed now.
Okay.
Next question.
Thank you.
The next question is from Mark Sue of RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Rami security are we too lead into security at no longer standalone products in the future.
Will you be leading and integrating it into routing and switching platforms and is that something that customers are asking for? And then Robyn on cash you are returning more than your annual cash flow in buybacks and dividends.
How should we think of cash flow from operations going forward? I think it’s around $800 million a year maybe if you could just help us understand cash generation here versus abroad and the subsequent appropriate debt-to-equity ratio for Juniper? Okay.
Thanks Mark.
Let me start with the security question first and then I’ll pass it over to Robyn.
I believe the industry is moving in the direction in which securities increasingly being intimately tied with switching and routing where understanding traffic pattern and flows through switches and routers actually allow you to improve your security posture substantially overall when you look at a domain like the data center cloud or the service provider edge.
So that’s effectively the strategy that we’re going to be executing towards.
It does involve building security products and they are going to be very effective security products but those products are going to be very much integrated if you will from a solution standpoint to switching and routing.
They’re going to be tested together and there will be a very high leveraging of technology components between silicon and software across three of these product lines.
So think of it from the standpoint of lots of cost synergies from the leveraging of technology as well as revenue energy very commensurate with what I believe that the industry is heading toward and how they think about the combinations of these products.
Robyn? Thanks Rami.
And so Mark in terms of the cash position as we mentioned that we had strong operating cash flows for the year of 2014 about $763 million.
We do generate cash strongly from the business in terms of our operating cash flow.
We did last year return more than our free cash flow to shareholders.
On the past we’re on that task too and efficient capital structure as we’ve outlined previously.
And therefore you would expect that to happen last year and through the first half of this year we anticipate buying back about a billion dollar shares as we’ve talked about before part of our repurchase and capital return program.
In terms of overall debt to cash ratio we are looking to maintain our investment grade rating and therefore we’ll be now financial means in order to maintain that rating.
And so that is what we’re doing as a company and we continuing to execute to that capital -- efficient capital structure as well as our investment credit rating.
Next question please? Thank you.
The next question is from Tal Liani of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
Sorry I had to take it off mute.
I have two quick questions.
First one is about services it declined 2.8% sequentially and in prior years it was always up in the fourth quarter.
What is driving? I thought it's more stable source of revenue so what is driving the decline? Second question is a follow-up …..
Tal.
Sorry I was going to answer that one for you.
All right.
Allow me to do that one for you? Yes.
So Tal we provided to table in the slides.
The decline was purely the result of the post divestiture.
So when you normalize to that services for the post business we’re actually sequentially up.
And so that business is very healthy as you see by the operating margins that we are yielding and actually the revenue continues to increase quite agnostically well.
Thank you.
So the question is about security and I am trying to understand the decline this quarter because over the last three years there were two parts of security.
SRX was up and the old NetScreen was down.
And the magnitude of the decline this quarter suggest that SRX also has issues in the quarter that we -- in the period of time not just the quarter where we see all other security companies reporting very strong quarters very strong results.
And I’m trying to understand what is wrong with SRX that is driving or what is missing maybe it’s a better way to phrase it? What is missing in SRX that is driving revenues down that much and how can you fix it? Can you discuss the parts that are weak and you are going to improve? Thanks.
Yeah.
Sure Tal.
So you are right that there are two components to our security business.
First is the NetScreen products or the ScreenOS products that have been in decline and continue to be decline a fairly rapid decline in fact and now represents a relatively smaller fraction of our overall security business.
The SRX products they are the high end and the low end component and especially the high end component does have a sort of a lumpiness to it because it relies on large deals and typically they are service provider deals around the world.
So we did see that impacts us to some extent in the Q4 timeframe.
But I think the overarching message that I want to get across on this call is that I am not pleased or satisfied with the performance of our security business.
I think we can and will do better and this is a competitive space and we have to operate and innovate under that assumption.
And that requires that we take a much more focused approach and ensuring that these products the ones that you are asking about the Junos based products are going to be incredibly competitive against everybody else in the industry especially as it pertains to integrated solutions of security and routing.
That’s exactly what we are going to be focusing on and that’s where you are going to see some of the enhancements that I have talked about coming out later this year.
Thanks Tal.
Next question Operator? Certainly.
The next question is from Bill Choi of Janney.
Please go ahead.
Okay.
Thanks.
Unfortunately I’m going to have to go back to security here as well.
I guess the problem we are having Rami is security if anything is getting more specialized not generically integrated with networking component.
So I could see from Juniper’s side how you could leverage your existing strengths and try to differentiate your solution.
But which customers are actually asking for this? Is this kind of to Tal’s question what kind of competitive dynamics are you seeing? Are you losing when you are just focusing on your prior strength of your scalability flows session? I mean these were good enough to win lead your businesses with mobile customers who were actually buying a ton of Gi firewalls going forward.
So that’s probably the big one.
Second just if you guys could try to give a little more quantifications of the very positive comment on book-to-bill and perhaps kind of the visibility you might have on a product level basis core versus edge routing and whether it’s more of the switching design wins that you had that is converting into revenue? Thanks.
Yeah.
Sure.
Bill thanks for the question.
Let me address the security question and then I will hand it over to Robyn to talk about the financial metric that you are asking about.
All right.
The strategy that we need to be on is in fact the one that you are taking about right now where we can -- we have to focus in areas where we can in fact be effective where we actually have been effective historically.
If for example you are talking about the Gi firewall their scale performance power efficiencies and the effectiveness of stopping attacks is very much there.
And there are in fact synergies there with routing.
And so this back-to-basics approach that I have just described or I can leverage some of the silicon enhancements that I have already funded that I have already invested in to improve my routing and switching can be used very effectively and securities can be done and that’s what we will do.
So I recognized that we are probably stretching your patience a little bit here with respect to this business.
But I also want to emphasize that I’ve taken now a thorough look as part of my onboarding as CEO.
And I’ve looked at where it is that we should focus and where we should not focus.
And as a result of that we’ve come out with this high-leverage strategy that I think will make us very competitive in the securities space.
And Bill in terms of the book-to-bill I can say that it was greater than one in fact I think much greater than one you replace with the book-to-bill our backlog was at about $445 million exiting the year roughly flat with the beginning of the fiscal year which we’ll replace about.
Thank you.
Next question please? Thank you.
The next question is from Amitabh Passi of UBS.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thank you.
I had question and then a follow-up.
I guess my first question was for you Robyn.
The midpoint of your revenue guidance is roughly about $1.04 billion.
I think for last quarter it was $1.05 billion but your guided gross margins at 64% plus or minus last quarter and this quarter at 63.5%.
So nothing of fact just curious why the 50 basis point reduction and should we expect things to normalize around 64% as we progress through the year? Yes but firstly thanks Amitabh.
In terms of the gross margins to date we did call out for the guidance range that there will be towards the low end of our long-term model that we’re actually -- have been our long term targets that we called out in October.
And then it’s a fixed result of Q1 mix in all that volume reduction as we mentioned in the prepared remarks.
In terms of the ongoing gross margin on place with the performance of gross margin as I’ve mentioned for the full year of 2014 we were roughly flat with ’13.
That’s really a reflection of the intense focus that we have on the cost side of the supply chain and also a reflection of the value that customers see in the innovation that we are bringing to market.
And so as we move forward here we expect to be in the range that I talked about at the Investor Day which is 64 plus or minus a bit.
I think there is still a lot of confusion out there in terms of what exactly vMX means for you for Juniper.
Can you maybe clarify for us how exactly are you positioning the vMX? What are you hearing from your customers initially and how do they intend to buy the vMS versus your physical MX? Yeah sure.
Let me try to demystify it for you.
So if you look at Juniper’s routing business overall vMX is in fact a router just has to be a virtualized router.
We make the bulk of our revenue in the high performance end of that range i.e.
the larger systems are the systems that sell the most just by virtue of the applications and the used cases that we are solving for our customers.
There is also market out there for low end routers.
It’s a market that we are not as penetrated in today.
It is a market where this trend of virtualization will in fact impact first because virtualization i.e.
this movement of services in the case of virtual MX.
It’s a layer three routing service on to virtual machines that fit on standard servers is interesting in some -- and it’s ability to deliver agility to our customers.
But it certainly cannot keep up with the performance that our customers require for their high-end applications where we already are very well penetrated today.
So the net of what I’ve just said is that the Virtual MX represents a great opportunity for Juniper to go after the low-end routing environment and use cases for our customers.
So where are our customers are thinking about deploying small PE router that the service provide edge they now might consider using a Virtual MX software license download it off of our website and deployed on a standard rack servers that’s a revenue opportunity for Juniper and of course the profit opportunity for Juniper.
So it’s highly complimentary with the rest of our portfolio.
It still I don’t -- I want to also set some expectation because the market is still in its early stages here.
This is a developing market.
But in developing and shipping this product we are essentially sending the message and putting a stake in the ground to our customers that we want to participate in this emerging market with really compelling feature rich products a product like this is one that we are -- we have to be proud enough of to put the MX logo on it and that’s essentially what we have done.
Thank you.
Next question.
The next question is from Paul Silverstein of Cowen.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Rami I think a short way in recent history all of you noticed that is you are particularly focused on cloud opportunity and enterprise switching business.
My question is can you give us some breakdown between the cloud data center portion of business than more generic to your assortment price campus use? And as we go forward many metrics you can offer us in terms of number of customers progress et cetera that speak to your success to wonder you are another to go forward with respect to your switching business? And one additional question with respect to your new products in 2015 switching and routing? How much of the growth you expect will come from these new products and given that historically there is a lag period for any company between product introduction and revenue generation you are assuming success? What is the timeframe? What do you expecting in terms of timeframe in that as well? Paul it’s Kathleen.
So we are as you know running closer on time so which question would you like to prioritize? We will go with the first one Kathleen? All right.
So the one on the cloud.
Okay.
So on the cloud and especially as it pertain to the switching opportunity.
If you look at our business today there -- the bulk of our switching product fell into either data center or some combination of data center and campus.
And even when you look at the campus dimension of this it’s actually the larger more mission critical campuses that we are going after because quite frankly it’s geared toward customers that care about carrier class capabilities performance and scalability that we address very well.
So that is how I would look at the business today.
Now as we start to introduce some of the new products.
Certainly we will have an opportunity to go deeper into these exiting opportunities and the enterprise for data center and mission critical campus.
But we also open up new opportunities in the cloud providers and financial services in particular.
That’s how we’d characterize where we are today and the opportunity going forward.
I’ll just touch very briefly on the second question which is a -- yes I mean you’re right.
Even if we introduce new products this year there is the typical certification and qualification cycle that can take a quarter -- I should say few quarters by our customers.
Enterprise customers will typical make that more on the lower end of the range maybe a quarter to two quarters service by the customers could take nine months to a year of certification.
Next question? Thank you.
The next question is from Subu Subrahmanyan of The Juda Group.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Rami I wanted to ask about customer segments.
You made the point at analyst event how the cloud operators now represent 16% of revenues versus 14% for the U.S.
large service providers.
So one part of the growth story is waiting for the U.S.
service providers tend to get better the other part is you have higher exposure to the growing parts.
So can you talk about the puts and takes maybe talk about what the growth rate you’re seeing in the faster growing segments are and how much reliance you still have on U.S.
service providers to get better to see growth return in the second half? Yeah.
Sure Subu.
So certainly you picked up on something that’s very important which is that -- and you see this in our Q4 results in fact which is that we have offset some of the weakness in the large U.S.
service providers by diversifying our business across a number of key verticals including cloud providers and cable.
That is by design that is very much a function of our strategy.
And I think that’s a very healthy thing to do and we will continue to do just that.
So whereas we anticipate a recovery in spending by our large service provider customers in the second half we certainly are not counting completely on that.
We’re also executing on this high diversification strategy across all of our key verticals both from a go-to-market focus standpoint as well as from the solutions that we’re developing for those verticals.
And Subu if I can just add in my prepared remarks today I talked about the full year of 2014 just like at the Analyst Day I talked about the three quarters through the end of Q3 of 2014.
A similar sort of pattern as Rami mentioned happened in the fourth quarter as well.
What we thought for the full year of 2014 is that the U.S.
large service providers were actually down year-over-year and they were offset by growth in cable and content service providers.
And that was the thing that we talked about at the Analyst Day as being an important one because what it does is that it shows not only the diversification of the revenue but also the applicability of the technology and the solutions that we’re developing across multiple customer segment and that includes the Enterprise because enterprise for the full year was pretty steady.
It was actually a good performance for enterprise for the year.
So I think that is a very big part of the leverage strategy that Rami’s talked about in terms of the product portfolio that we have and also going forward in terms of growth targeting those areas that are going faster than the rest.
Next question? Thank you.
The next question is from Brain Modoff with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Yeah guys.
Question really on the switching side.
You’ve been really selling mainly top-of-rack switches two main competitors in the spine switchovers than Cisco.
I know you’ve got to work in that area.
When can we see a product and how you plan to target it from your go-to market strategy and that’s it? Thanks.
Yeah.
Sure.
Thanks Brian.
You are right.
I think that the switching products that we have today limit the opportunities to very specific opportunities that we go after where we know that we can be successful based on the capabilities of our product portfolio.
We do have a programmable spine today that’s very useful for certain types of cloud data centers and campus environment this is EX9200.
But that said if the requirement is more around very dense spine switches than there the product positions that we have is the QFabric.
Now yes I have alluded to the fact that we are introducing more products in the switching space of this year and certainly I expect that those products are going to help us address a broader set of applications across a broader set of vertical markets including as I just mentioned in the cloud provider space.
Okay.
That is all the time we have this afternoon.
Thank you so much for joining us today.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.
Greetings.
And welcome to the Juniper Networks First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Kathleen Nemeth Vice President of Investor Relations for Juniper.
Thank you Ms.
Nemeth.
You may now begin.
Thank you Operator.
Good afternoon.
And thanks for joining us on today’s call.
Earlier this afternoon we announced our first quarter results and outlook for the second quarter of 2015.
Also shortly after the issuance of our financial results press release we posted to the IR section of our website financial commentary by Robyn Denholm Our Chief Financial and Operations Officer.
We have also furnished this commentary to the SEC on form 8-K.
We hope you find this new format helpful and we welcome your feedback.
With me today are today are Rami Rahim Chief Executive Officer; and Robyn Denholm Chief Financial and Operations Officer.
Today's call may contain certain forward-looking statements including statements concerning Juniper's business economic and market outlook strategy future financial operating results capital return program and overall future prospects.
Actual results might differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are listed in our most recent 10-Q and the press release furnished with our 8-K filed with the SEC today.
All statements made during this call are made only as of today.
Juniper undertakes no obligation to update the information in this conference call in the event facts or circumstances change after the date of the call.
Our discussion of the financial results today will include non-GAAP results.
Full GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation information can be found on the IR section of our website.
As a reminder unless otherwise noted revenue growth rates have been normalized for the sale of Junos Pulse.
For important commentary on why our management team considers non-GAAP information a useful view of the company's financial results please consult the press release furnished with our 8-K filed with the SEC today.
Now I'll hand the call over to Rami.
Thanks Kathleen and welcome everyone.
We delivered solid results for the first quarter of 2015 exceeding our guided ranges.
Our strong year of your expansion in non-EPS reflects our continued focus in operational discipline and is a testament to our proven ability to execute on our strategy.
We are making significant progress against our key initiatives and we remain steadfast in achieving our outlook realizing Juniper’s full potential.
Industry fundamentals are unfolding largely as we anticipated.
Based on our visibility and our discussions with customers we continue to expect an improvement in demand in the second half of 2015.
It has been a busy Q1 at Juniper and I’m proud of what we’ve accomplished in the past few months.
We’ve organized our R&amp;D team to innovate as a start-up and unveil the compelling line-up of new products and solutions across routing switching and security that address real problems faced by our customers and that will make a meaningful difference in the connected world we live in today.
We’ve been listening closely to what our customers tell us they need and a reception from those that I have had early access to these new products has been very positive.
Our customers truly value our mission of creating solutions that offer performance and advanced automation capabilities without compromising on scale and reliability.
We are enabling our customers to deliver new revenue generating services and a better experience to their customers.
I am energized by all the new opportunities our investments and innovations will make possible.
I will now comment briefly on highlights from routing switching and security in the first quarter.
In routing we are generally pleased with our execution and progress.
Despite the expected sequential and year-over-year decline we still see growth opportunities in routing all out.
The diversity of our customers across our focus verticals continues to help offset weakness in U.S.
carrier spending.
Cloud providers and cable operators continue to be highlights for us and we are pleased to see solid progress with large enterprise customers such as those in our governments vertical that is opting our routing and SDN solution.
Regionally EMEA returned to year-over-year growth in Q1 and we started to see traction from some key customers in APAC.
In the first quarter we announced enhancements to the PTX product line that make it the highest performing IPU routing platform in the market.
Three times that of the closest competitor empowered by Juniper’s new ExpressPlus silicon.
Coupled with our NorthStar WAN SDN controller I am confident that we will be well positioned to take routing market share once these products fully ramp.
In switching we are pleased that our mid-to-high end data center business was strong in the first quarter.
So our overall product revenue was down.
We expect to continue to grow in the data center with our sales focus and new line of QFX spine switches which will be the highest performance switches on the market.
These switches can deliver unprecedented scale and port density to all types of data center and cloud deployment.
Coupled with contrail and our partnership with VMware we are well equipped with highly automated cloud data center solutions for both service provider and mission-critical enterprise network.
Moving to security we know we still have work to do to return to growth in this area of our business.
Starting in early February we outlined for customers our expected product direction over the next 18 months illustrating our commitment to offering demand level solutions to have a strong element of security.
Our customers understand the criticality of securing the networks we provide and the roadmap was well-received.
Just last week we announced the in-speeds fastest firewall with 2 terabits per second of performance ideal for bandwidth intensive mobile deployment as well as large cloud data centers.
We are getting in front of our customers security challenges and we remain focused on areas where we can win.
Service has deserved a quick recap as well.
We saw a year-over-year increase in service revenue driven by new service contract and strong contract renewal.
We continue to help customers through their next-generation network architectures and with the transition towards service agility and automation.
Now to take a step back the continued expansion of cloud computing and the mobile Internet has broad implications for the technology industry as a whole and for networking innovation in particular.
There is tremendous opportunity for us to deliver on our vision of being the worldwide leader in the network innovation.
We believe the industry needs a technology provider that is maniacally focused on IP networking that's Juniper that's what we do every day.
We are squarely focused on solving our customers’ toughest networking challenges with superior products and services that transform the economics of networking through high performance and automation.
And we have strong relationships with our customers and a robust growth global partner ecosystem that we believe will enable us to win in the marketplace.
Our sharpen strategy and focus go-to-market model have come together to drive real competitive advantage for us.
We are executing on our vision to be a worldwide leader of network innovation.
We remain resolute in our focus to drive comparable profitable long-term growth and increase shareholder value.
As we continue on our course I want to thank our customers our shareholders and our nearly 9000 passionate and hard-working employees for their ongoing support.
Now I’ll return to over to Robyn who will review a few highlights of the quarter.
Thank you Rami and good afternoon everyone.
Before I begin I would like to point out that we posted my detailed CFO commentary on our website prior to this call.
For the first quarter of 2015 we delivered good year-over-year non-GAAP operating margin and earnings per share expansion reflecting continued management of our cost structure and a significant reduction in our share count while driving innovation and remaining focused on our growth strategy.
We exceeded our revenue guidance range due to slightly better demand from our Cloud Cable and European Service Providers which points to the continued strength in the diversification of our customer base.
Our underlying demand metrics were healthy this quarter with an increase in both total and product deferred revenue and a book-to-bill greater than 1.
We continue to deliver on our capital return program.
In the quarter we repurchased $400 million of shares and we are reaffirming our commitment to repurchase a total of $1 billion of shares from January through June of 2015.
Additionally in the quarter we completed a $600 million bond offering enabling us to execute on our total capital return of $4.1 billion to shareholders through 2016.
I’d like to provide our perspective on the proposed merger between Nokia and Alcatel-Lucent as it relates to the Juniper business.
Our partners are a key component of our go-to-market strategies.
The majority of that revenue is either resold or distributed through our partners.
We have a good relationship with Nokia and in 2014 they resold approximately $190 million of Juniper products and services.
Our strategy is to be the worldwide leader in network innovation and to deliver products and services that really matter to our customers.
Irrespective of the router market we have direct relationships with our large end-user customers.
Moving on to the foreign currency fluctuations the pricing environment remains competitive and we take into account currency fluctuations in our pricing strategy.
As a reminder we primarily price an invoice in U.S.
dollars.
And as a result we have not seen a significant translation impact on our revenue from the strengthening of the U.S.
dollar.
On the cost side and the balance sheet we have a hedging program in place to reduce the variability associated with currency fluctuations.
Now let’s take a look at some of various assumptions behind our outlook for Q2 and the demand environment for the second half of 2015.
We expect continued momentum from our cloud and cable customers.
We also expect further growth throughout the year from our international customers as they continue to build out the network.
In addition to these trends we expect an improvement in demand from our large U.S.
carrier customers in the second half of the year.
Based on all of these factors we expect to see an improvement in our revenue in the second half of 2015 relative to both the second half of 2014 and the first half of 2015.
You can find the detailed outlook for Q2 in the CFO commentary available on our website.
In summary I am pleased with our performance in Q1 and I would like to thank our team for their continued dedication and commitment to Juniper’s success.
And now I’d like to open the call for questions for the remainder of the hour.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Amitabh Passi of UBS.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys I had a question and if possible a quick follow-up.
I guess the question Robyn or Rami was just your conviction level and the visibility in the back half of this year in terms of the outlook particularly with U.S.
service providers.
I also want to just clarify Robyn your comment about second half being better than second half of ’14.
Is that on a quarterly basis i.e.
would you expect 3Q ’15 to be better than 3Q ’14 and 4Q to be better than 4Q ’14? And then I have a follow-up.
Okay.
Let me start – sorry Amitabh I think we got the question first.
Thanks for the question and I’ll start and then I’ll pass it over to Robyn.
The first question about conviction with respect to the second half the really two elements to the guidance that we have provided or the outlook we provided.
First and foremost we remain very close to all of our service provider customers including those that are here in Northern America.
So we obviously have good visibility into projects that we are working on together.
We have as good visibility into the trends that are happening in the industry similar visibility to what you see.
And based on that I would say that yes we are pretty confident in the improvement in spending and a demand in the second half of this year.
The second element I think to your question that’s equally important is the fact that we expect to see continued diversification of our business across all of our key verticals.
So Q1 was another really good quarter in terms of the traction that we saw with cloud providers and cable operators.
And clearly these are very strategic verticals where our engagement with customers are happening on an ongoing basis and we feel good about the strength and our position in the industry if you will our competitive position relative to these verticals in the second half.
And Robyn I’ll it to you for the rest.
Yes Amitabh in terms of the commentary what I said was that we expect the second half of 2015 in aggregate of it is going to be above the first half of 2015 as well as the second half of 2014.
I am not expecting a different trajectory Q3 to Q4 versus what we’ve seen in the past.
Okay.
And then if I can just squeeze a quick follow-up hey Rami just on the new product announcements you had a few of them in the last three to six months which one two or three would you think would start to add to revenues as we move towards through the rest of 2015 and into 2016.
Yeah.
Thanks Amitabh.
First I feel really good about the products and the announcements that we just unveiled to the industry.
These are obviously technologies that we have been working on very diligently over the last several years and Q1 was honestly very exciting for us business we finally had an opportunity to announce to everybody what it is that we’ve up to.
And as you know they really touch all of our different business areas in switching routing and security.
I have to sort of just remind everybody that yes these products all go through their normal certification cycles.
We have to first get them out of the market.
So right now we are all working around the clock to make sure that we get them into our customers’ hands and ready for deployment crossing all of the tees and diving the eyes if you will on the testing that needs to happen right now.
I expect the first products that hit the market will be the switching products and there I think the ramp will be sooner just based on the availability of that product to that market followed by the enhancements that we’ve made to the PTX product line that happens in the Q3 timeframe.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Simona Jankowski of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hi thank you.
Just a couple of questions and a follow-up to the prior question on the new products.
So Rami based on your guidance for both Q2 and the second half it sounds like they are not really expecting a pause or kind of an half burn effect because of these new products as customers wait for the better products to come out later in the year.
Can you just comment on why that is? And then follow-up on specifically the switching part of the portfolio we haven’t yet seen you announced anything in the area of 25 or 50 gig in the datacenter or 2.5 5 gig in campus.
Can you just comment on whether those are segments that you plan to address.
Yeah.
Sure Simona.
Thanks for the question.
First on the overhang effect that you are talking about we’ve gone through product transitions at Juniper now a number of times.
So we obviously are aware and always factor into our projections and our plan the potential for any sort of an overhang effect.
But that said I am just going to drill one level deeper.
We’ve been talking to our customers about these innovations for quite a long time now.
In fact with many of our customers we’ve developed these products with direct input and guidance from them.
So it’s not going to be new news for them.
Secondarily in the – let’s say the routing demand with the PTX.
Here our customers have actually really liked the fact that we are continuing to invest in this product line and so they know they have the peace of mind if you will that they can continue to purchase it and have the ability to upgrade in the future when their capacity require them.
On the switching side I would say the overhang effective slim to none because of the fact that this essentially addresses the gap that exist in our portfolio as opposed to something that replace of the product line that already in the market.
On the – your follow-up question on 25 gig and some of these newer interface speed we haven’t gone out externally and talked about specific products.
All I’ll say for now is that actually this is an important topic for us in the company.
We understand what our customers’ requirements are with respect to various different inter phase speeds and we are building that into our roadmap.
Great.
Thank you Rami.
And then I just had a very quick follow-up for Robyn.
Robyn I heard in your comments on FX having not had a translational impact which makes sense.
It was interesting how strong your EMEA business was.
Did you not see any impact in terms of either deal size is getting smaller or competitively or in terms of pricing just from how strong the dollar was? So clearly in the first quarter we did have very good results in our EMEA business.
It was actually up year-over-year.
In terms of the pricing impact it is a competitive market and we continue to take into account the currency impact on our customers budgets if you like as opposed to just our own product pricing.
And so it is a factor that we’ve dealt within the past and we will continue to deal with it.
Obviously going forward we factored in what we believe will be the impact from currency into the guidance that I have given you for the second quarter and then also more in terms of the color for the second half of the year as well.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Pierre Ferragu of Sanford Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Hi thank you for taking my questions.
Rami first of all we’re talking a lot about the consolidation in the industry of course you’ve mentioned the Nokia/Alcatel-Lucent merger.
And so I’d love to hear your thoughts on the topic.
First of all how do you see that affecting you guys? Like more consolidation in the industry and I’d say beyond of course the direct impact of Nokia being one of your distributors? And then so I would love to hear your thoughts about how you see the industry evolving going forward? Do you think there could be more consolidation? Do you think you could play in that? And I’m thinking about two things: could Juniper be stronger as a part of a larger entity with service provider clients? And also from a technological perspective how do you think about you guys potentially being stronger closer to adjacent technologies like wireless and transport versus being independent and focused on IP routing? And then I have a very short follow-up for Robyn.
Okay great.
Thank you Pierre.
Okay.
So certainly we see the industry dynamics that are panning out right now.
Consolidation is one of those industry dynamics and difficult to predict but yes it could continue going forward.
There are other dynamics that are happening as well.
There are transformational architectural shifts that are happening right now across the industry of a movement towards cloud-based service delivery value delivery to the end users whether that’d be residential or business end uses.
And honestly I believe that there is a need for a company that’s going to be really laser focused on developing the types of IP innovation that are necessary to get our customers to make this transition.
That’s the role that we play in this company.
That’s the role we play at Juniper.
So the net of it is there is no change to our strategy our strategy remains one of delivering and competing based on the merit of our technology and on achieving scale through really effective partnerships.
With respect to Nokia Robyn addressed in her opening remarks we have deep direct relationships with all of the customers that we work with whether they go through Nokia or not and we have a variety of other partners to choose from as well in taking our innovation to market.
As far as the second part of your question with respect to potential M&amp;A for Juniper I have said in the past and I still do believe that our strategy to innovate is going to be largely organic but with the potential to augment it with some M&amp;A activity.
Right now the focus is primarily on getting the products that we’ve announced out the door but at some point it will probably make sense for us to think about M&amp;A to complement that and we continue to do that as part of our ongoing strategic process.
Thanks a lot.
And Robyn a very very quick follow-up on the $190 million of business you’ve generated with Nokia last year.
How should we think about how sticky the business is? So I understand that you have relationship with client it’s not completely fully at-risk but there will be pressure on – potentially on these numbers.
Is that something that can happen in the short-term or is that more like a longer-term race because you have like good contractual and like protection related to the fact that it's difficult to swap out technology in a network? Thanks Pierre.
I think that is a good question.
I mean from our perspective obviously what we control is actually our relationships with our customers our end-user customers.
In terms of the profile of that $190 million for 2014 it was both product and services; it was actually routing switching and security in those numbers.
Clearly there is some overlap in terms of routing with the Alcatel-Lucent portfolio as and when this transaction closes and so that will take some time.
So we believe that there is an opportunity to continue to partner on those areas where we don’t overlap.
And then obviously the services contracts continue over time with those end-user customers.
And the profile of the revenue products versus services is roughly the same as the overall Juniper profile in terms of overall percentage.
Actually that’s very good.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
The next question is from Ehud Gelblum of Citi.
Please go ahead.
Thanks guys.
Appreciate it.
Rami welcome conference calls I guess you did one before too but – Thank you.
Sure.
So a couple of things.
First of all we have mergers in lots of different directions.
One obviously is the vendor one you’re talking about.
The other one given that you are seeing strength in cable is coming from two large cable companies in the U.S.
that were on a merger path that may or may not be on a merger path going forward.
Can you give a comment as to how would that impact things positively or negatively if that merger doesn’t go through? And what kind of like signposts should we be looking for in terms of what that would mean to your business at EDH1 and just thought process on that? And then Robyn a couple years ago when you had a slew of new products coming out in 2011 I want to say you gave us this target I believe it was $75 million – $75 million or $150 million I can’t remember.
That was about seven quarters out.
Is there some kind of signpost that you can give us on growth of these new products that you came out with that are coming out now that we can kind of look to a couple of like a years or so out so we can kind of track the progress of the new products? And then I have a very quick – just a small follow-up.
So Ehud I will address the second part of the question and then Rami can address the first part around customer consolidation.
So in terms of the new product ramps to revenue obviously we are very focused on doing that.
And Rami went through the number of steps that we need to do in terms of getting the products out and then also having them certified for the networks and that type of thing.
We have not put out nor are we going to put out a number in terms of the quantity of revenue to expect.
What we would do is give you progress as we incur design wins and that type of thing.
But in terms of an overall number it’s included in our outlook for the second half of the year and it will be modest this year in terms of any revenue impact.
Thanks Robyn.
On the question regarding cable first I will remind everybody that cable is one of our key strategic vertical that we are focusing on and measuring ourselves against in terms of performance of the business.
We enjoy a really strong relationship on both sides of the potential merger you talked about Comcast and Time Warner and we continue to do so.
We’re working very closely with them on the variety of different projects.
I personally engage with executives on both sides.
So honestly whether it happens or not is a very neutral thing for us it doesn’t change the importance of the vertical for us it doesn’t change our investment level that we would put into the vertical to make sure that we remain aligned with the innovations that we are introducing into the market.
And I will say that some of the new products that we have just talked about were developed with explicit and detailed feedback about the requirements for the cable industry.
We know what they want we know what kind of performance the capabilities the feature set that is required to build out their networks and I feel confident that they are actually going to play out very well for the vertical.
Thanks.
So I was just confirming that you actually are on both sides of that Time Warner and Comcast.
Robyn my question was on cash flow statement there is a line professional services related to non-routine stockholder matters.
That was $7.3 million in the year ago quarter and $3 million in this quarter.
Is this to deal with your activist investor? And what was the $3 million spent on? So that is actually to do with the settlement that we reached in first quarter in relation to our proxy.
Excellent.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Tal Liani of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
I have two questions.
The first one is more kind of a longer term.
I understand that routing will have cyclical recovery but if I try to think outside in terms of kind of recovery in the last four years routing revenues were flat 0% growth.
What do you think is the outlook? What are the – even if you don’t get to a specific number what are the puts and takes for growth over the next four five years? Why should it accelerate now if it didn’t grow the last four years if you take the whole 2011 to 2015? The second question is about the outlook for cost cuts if at all.
So you’re coming out of the big restructuring program.
Is that it from cost cuts point of view? So going forward will margin enhancement be more of a function of revenue growth or is there any room for additional cuts? Thanks.
Okay.
Let me start Tal and then I will pass it over to Robyn.
The outlook that we had provided on our routing business over the next three years was essentially 3% to 5% in revenue growth.
And I believe that’s achievable because of a number of different things.
First just based on the merits of our product portfolio.
The dynamics in the routing business are such that in order to grow you need to take market share and in order to take market share you need to have better products.
We just introduced a router that has three times the performance of anything else that’s out there in the industry today.
At a time the traffic is growing substantially and our customers care about the economics of routing.
We have a product that truly demonstrates to them what we’re capable of doing in moving that amount of traffic cost-effectively.
That’s why I think we have confidence in our ability to achieve these projections.
And then as far as the restructuring costs that you’re talking about let me just start and I will pass it over to Robyn.
The most important thing that I think you need to understand is yes last year was a year of restructuring for us but going forward I think we’re going to make sure that the investments we make in OpEx are going to be commensurate with the revenue growth.
We are not going to get ahead of ourselves as we have done in the past quite frankly in terms of how we invest in the business.
We have to see the growth that will give us the freedom if you will to invest in the business not the other way around.
Robyn do you want to add anything? Yeah thanks Rami.
I think firstly I’m very pleased with the cost performance in the quarter and also the year-over-year declines that we’ve actually achieved this quarter in terms of the cost.
I think also just amplifying what Rami said I mean clearly we put out in October that 25% is still our goal in terms of operating margin over this next three-year period.
And we are focused on doing that in a balanced way.
We want to make sure that we continue to invest in the future of the company which is obviously the innovation that we are delivering to market.
And we will as Rami said grow OpEx outside of this year slower than we grow our revenue.
And so that’s how we will continue to expand operating margins just like we did in the third quarter on a year-over-year basis.
So that is our strategy and we are continuing to do that.
So the other side of that tale is that we are always looking for cost improvements a lot of those will be invisible because you have to actually take cost out to even keep it flat in any sort of environment.
So we are very focused on the cost side but in a very balanced way.
Got it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Mark Sue of RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
It’s good to see the encouraging commentary.
If I look at it from a historical perspective you went through a period of product pruning.
We now know you will keep routing security and also switching.
As you balance your commentary with OpEx are there submarkets or perhaps verticals where you might potentially retreat from while you fortify your efforts into the other verticals of cloud data center and service providers? Just trying to get a sense of how you narrow the scope so you get multiplied the effects on the other end.
Yes thanks Mark.
You know last year was a busy year and a tough year quite frankly because we have to make some difficult decisions about which particular product areas we are going to remain in and which ones we would divest and which ones we would unwind.
That work is effectively behind us at this point in time.
So I feel very good right now that we are not stretching ourselves too thin that we are investing in areas and investing sufficiently in the markets that we are playing in in order to differentiate to compete and to win.
It’s that simple.
So at this point the focus really is on the focus in our strategy that we have to grow top line and we’ll go from there.
We are in execution mode.
Yeah and if I can just add as well Mark you know the work that [indiscernible] go-to-market side is also obviously yielding results and if you look at our strategy more deeply in terms of the vertical focus that we have it’s obviously clearly focused on those customers that differentiate the network or run their business on the network across cloud cable carriers as well as strategic verticals in enterprise and government.
And so we are very pleased with that.
And partnering is a key element of making sure that we continue to get the growth rates from a revenue perspective and continue to drive operating margin expansion as well.
That's helpful Robyn and on that as you look at margin improvements and you look at firming net income how should we think about cash flow from operations considering the business when it hums along generates a lot of cash? Any thoughts on how we should think about cash flow from operations this year? Yes I think cash flow generation is a core strength of the business model that we have here at Juniper.
I think that operating cash flow in particular does follow the operating margin and the expansion of that will obviously lead to more cash per revenue dollar being generated.
And so we are very pleased with our cash flow for the first quarter and even for the whole of last year and that enabled us to continue to drive the investments that we need going forward and also deliver a healthy return for our shareholders in terms of the capital returns that we’ve been committed to.
All very helpful.
Thank you and good luck.
Thank you.
Thanks Mark.
Thanks you.
The next question comes from Rod Hall of JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Yeah hi guys thanks for taking my question.
I guess I wanted to ask either one of you on the routing cycle maybe a little bit more short-term question.
Which is you guys seemed to think the routing cycle had bottomed last quarter is down 15% year-over-year in your numbers.
This quarter you are down 8% it does kind of feel like that was the right call for you anyway.
Should we anticipate the routing cycle continuing to improve? And do you think that we're getting to positive year-over-year growth in the second half of your routing? So that’s the first question I’ve got.
And then I’ll just ask a follow-up after you guys answer that one.
Let me start and I will see if Robyn wants to add anything.
I’ll just go back to the commentary we had made.
We do expect just based on the two factors that we’ve outlined service providers spend in general I mean I’m talking telco spend in general and specifically here in the United States should improve in the second half of the year and then also the further diversification of our business across the different key verticals that includes cloud that includes cable.
Now based on that we do anticipate the second half to be better than the first half and also better than the second half of last year.
Robyn anything else? Yes I agree with obviously everything Ramey said there.
I would also point out and I mentioned it in my CFO commentary that we actually had a good routing quarter in Q1 in enterprise as well and that just speaks to not only the diversification of the revenue but some of the key strategic pivots that we made last year around the data center.
So obviously in enterprise as well as in cloud data centers in the service provider world there is an element of routing that’s in those solutions as well.
And so we are pleased by that performance.
We saw some good wins and some good revenue on the enterprise side of routing as well as the SP side.
But to confirm we do expect service provider routing to improve through the year as well.
Okay.
And then my follow-up I guess is a strategic question for you Rami.
As you look at the routing business it looks like overtime anyway routing and optical will come closer together.
We know there's some organizational reasons at carriers that’s not going to happen as quickly particularly in some of the bigger carriers but I’m just wondering what you’re thinking about prospects of a standalone routing company? How badly do you think you guys need to develop an optical capability a deeper optical capability I should say and do you think it would ever make sense to acquire assets to provide that kind of a capability? Yes Rod you are absolutely right there is a transformation that’s happening right now in the industry where the packet world if you will and the optical world that are moving closer together you are also right about the velocity at which that’s happening.
It’s not happening very fast there are all sorts of non-technology barriers that are in the way that will prevent it from moving fast.
As far as our own strategy we do have a small but very effective optical team in-house to Juniper that I do expect will grow over time that has the capability of taking off-the-shelf optical components that are available to anybody really and integrated them into our routing products but I also do believe that where most of the innovation is going to be on the packet optical convergence topic.
It is going to be in software it is going to be around the ability to look across layers and to make optimal decisions how to move information from place A to place B leveraging optical and packet technology as efficiently and effectively as possible.
And we have now a product called the NorthStar controller which is essentially our WAN SDN controller that does exactly that.
Honestly I think we have some of the best minds in the industry right now that have developed algorithms that have the ability to optimize these pass across layers in a way that is very meaningful to our customers and we are engaging with a number of different customers on these products.
It is still early days early stages but I’m encouraged by the progress that we are making.
Great.
Okay thanks a lot guys.
Thank you.
The next question is from Jess Lubert of Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys thanks for taking my question.
I have a question on the security business and specifically I was hoping to understand if you see any developments that will you believe this business may be nearing a bottom would you expect the security business to also strengthen through the year and potentially return to growth during the second half and perhaps you can walk through what’s going well and are the keys to better participating what seems to be a fairy vibrant security market? Yeah thanks Jeff.
So our goal for this year as I stated last quarter is around stabilizing the security business if you take a look at our SRX business in Q1 it was more or less flat with Q4.
The part of the business that’s in decline and that will continue to be in decline is going to be the legacy ScreenOS business.
We’re still in working progress mode if you will on security.
I did mention that we pivoted our strategy we’re not working on a security strategy that’s very highly aligned with the rest of our product portfolio and offering to main level solutions to have a strong security element to our customers and we are executing on a very high leverage engineering strategy.
So just last week in fact we announced the industry’s fastest firewall that’s 2 terabits per second.
For cloud operators they are trying to protect massive cloud infrastructure and for mobile operators that are trying to protect the mobile users their mobile infrastructure that’s very very meaningful and it’s only possible because of the silicon innovations that we’ve already developed in-house for our other product lines and it just demonstrates the power of the synergies if you will from a cost standpoint that exist in the organization.
So in summary we are focusing on a narrow part of the market.
It’s the network security space tightly aligned with the rest of our products and we believe that we can in fact innovate to differentiate and win there.
It’s just going to take a bit of time.
Rami in the security business over the last couple of years a lot of your success has been at the high end with large services providers as services provider spending improved in the back half of the year should we expect that to also benefit the security business and how are you thinking about security with respect to enterprise is the recovery likely to be more carrier focused or are you also expecting similar improvement on enterprise? Thanks.
Well as CapEx improves for services providers I expect that to help all of our business I don’t know whether specifically for this second half it will have an effect on security.
We haven’t broken that out in that way.
The enhancements that we are making right now to our Juno Space security products I want to make clear are certainly very compelling for the service provider space but it is also compelling for large scale enterprises so those that are building large enterprise clouds will benefit from the performance and scale that we are adding.
And of course it doesn’t stop there we’re also continually enhancing our virtual security products and assets which is very meaningful for the enterprise space because at the end of the day breaches will always happen you are always going to be able to overcome any security barrier you put as a parameter once that happens the key is to prevent the spread of Malware inside of the enterprise and our reversal security products are now being used by enterprises to do exactly that.
So yes our strategy is very much around SP and enterprise.
The scale and performance helps both.
Certainly more on the SP and the cloud infrastructure space but also in the enterprise side and finally virtualization is something that will certainly help both SP and enterprise.
And just to underscore that I made the comment before about routing and datacenter and the enterprise.
The same was true in the quarter for security.
The high-end was up again nothing to write home about yet because it was flat overall.
SRX fled overall sequentially.
However the area that did grow nice was actually the datacenter space in the enterprise in this quarter.
So it’s early days but our overall aim for this year is to create stability in that business this year and then go from there.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
The next question is from Vijay Bhagavath of Deutsche Bank.
Yes thanks.
Hi Rami how is it going.
A question for you and Robyn.
A question for you Rami is it seems to be like you are doing quite well in the non-telco segments you know the cloud portals Web 2.0 etcetera that will be helpful for us to get any color on the rough percentage split in terms of revenues like for routing.
So would it be less than 10% for Web 2.0 cloud maybe somewhere in the 10% 20% and then the remainder would be telco and cable.
It would be very helpful.
Thanks.
Hi Vijay.
Look we haven’t broken that out.
We can consider doing that at point.
I will say that the fact that we are seeing strength in cloud and cable and government is not an accident it’s a deliberate part of our strategy.
So we are in fact listening very closely in making sure that we weave in the requirements from all the customers in these verticals into our products.
And I feel good that that’s going to continue.
I mean I will tell you again that the products that we have just announced that will be shipped throughout this year were all developed with a deep understanding of specific requirements in these verticals that others that might not have the strategic relationship that they have with these customers would have implemented.
So I expect that that part of the business will continue to do well and certainly the telco side will do well as there is improvement in the CapEx environment there.
Yes.
I just want to add one more point Vijay.
I think the diversification of the revenues the core strengths of ours and this quarter one of the stats I will leave you with is of that top 10 customers in the quarter 5 were carriers 3 were outside of North America.
We had four customers in the top 10 that were either cloud or cable and one enterprise customer.
So to me that is - it is really good in terms of the diversification and it is not something that happened over night.
That’s been work in progress by the team for quite some time.
It speaks to the strength on the go-to-market side as well as the relevance of the products across multiple customer types and so we are pleased that with that progress.
Excellent.
So here is the question for you Robyn that Juniper obviously is engaged in many new initiatives programs many different types of customers to work with how would you look at OpEx as a percentage of revenue for the remainder quarters of the year you see that trending up as you get into new project from an NFE on the service provider side.
The Web 2.0 cloud have their own idiosyncrasies in terms of how they want to work with you how should we look at OpEx? Thanks.
Yes.
So OpEx as we’ve talked about before for this year for 2015 we have set a goal of $1.9 billion plus or minus $25 million.
As we move forward we said earlier that we’re committed to the 25% operating margin over the next three years.
As we grow revenue OpEx as a percentage of revenue will start to come down.
And so we’ve talked about that for quite some time.
The structural actions that we took last year and the cost areas that we continue to work on are a testament to that.
So we are committed to doing that in a balanced way so that we can continue to grow the business over the long term.
Okay.
Thanks.
Good luck to you and your team.
Thank you.
Thanks [indiscernible].
Thank you.
The next question is from Sanjiv Wadhwani of Stifel.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Rami a question on the switching side.
Last year in the first half you did really well in the switching touching $200 million in revenue in the June quarter which historically has been tough to get there.
I’m just curious you are tracking about $20 million $30 million below that number.
What’s changed between last year and this year and what gets you back to that $200 million or north of that? Thanks.
Yes sure.
Thanks Sanjiv.
On the switching side let me sort of try to breakout the business and then probably shed some light on some of the observations that you’ve made.
There is a service provider and an enterprise component to our switching business.
The service provider side especially as it pertains to cloud has actually performed quite well and that includes performance in the Q1 timeframe the quarter that we just wrapped up.
The enterprise side is a bit of a mixed story which is what you are seeing right now observing right now in the numbers.
Cloud as it pertains to enterprise so private cloud type deployment as well as enterprise IT datacenters has actually done quite well.
So that area of the business just I think because of the focus and some of the newer product introduction has helped us grow in that area of the business.
On the campus side you have to understand that we’ve just sort of done a bit of a campus pivot in our switching business or in our strategy all up that includes taking some of the products that we had in-house take our SSL VPN business our Pulse business the wireless LAN business and we pivoted there to a partnership approach.
And I think that that strategy needs to play out over a number of quarters before we get to some sort of stability and return to growth if you will.
Once that happens I think that will create the environment if you will for all of growth in switching.
Last but not least clearly we have been competing even in the datacenter without a complete portfolio of products which we are just about to plug if you will with the innovations in the QFX 10K product line that we have just announced and we’ll start to introduce for our customers in the middle of the year.
That gives me more confidence again that I think that switching can be a good growth engine for the company going forward.
Dany are you still there? Yes.
Our next question is from Ittai Kidron of Oppenheimer.
Please go head.
Thanks.
Rami I want to drill into that switching segment that Sanjiv started.
First of all can you give us a list of qualitative assessment of the breakdown between your datacenter and your campus wiring closet switch just from a revenue breakdown standpoint? We don’t break it down but I will say that they both represent pretty meaningful portions of the overall switching business Ittai.
Okay.
And then regarding your the new announcements that you’ve made is very exciting the new switch but you’ve had a couple of switch cycles in the past and you’ve kind of fumbled on them whether it be the QFabric and even the high end of your modular portfolio the 9200 and the 8200.
They never really managed to catch any traction.
It seems like that can modular.
You’ve always had very difficult challenges.
So what changes in the next cycle? Well I mean at the end of the day these are just words and it’s the numbers that are going to have to prove our thesis if you will of our competitiveness in this space.
But all I’ll tell you is that we have learned tremendously tremendously from the lessons of introducing the products into the market that are in the market today whether they’d on the EX side or the QFabric side and so forth.
And we have taken all of those lessons and applied them over the last couple of years as we were developing these new products into the development of those product lines.
And we have now been talking to many of our customers about this product line for quite some time and so far what we’ve heard from them and in fact some of the them had early access to the products and in terms of an ability to actually kick the tyres on them.
The feedback has been quite encouraging.
Now we have a lot of work to do to finish up testing ramp up production and get these products into the market.
We are doing exactly that right now.
But I feel really good about the prospects of this product line.
Okay and very good.
Lastly from me HP announced its acquisition of Aruba that was your Wi-Fi partner since you’ve exited your Wi-Fi business.
Any thoughts on how you plug that hole since you’re trying to plug a lot of holes.
Yes.
Fortunately I don’t consider this as a hole at least not right now.
Now things could evolve in certain ways but at this point in time I am very close to the Aruba executive team.
I’ve talked to their CEO.
That partnership continues.
The foundation of that partnership is one that is based on open interfaces between our technology and their technology.
So having the ability for our customers to choose battery technology is fundamental.
And anybody that lose side of that will lose just because our customers will not accept anything else.
And I think that’s the thing that makes this solution a) long lasting but more importantly or just is importantly it gives our customers the ability to interchange either at Juniper or the Aruba side with different types of technologies.
Very good.
Good luck.
Thank you.
Thanks Ittai.
I think we have time for one more question.
Thank you.
The next question is from Brian White of Cantor Fitzgerald.
Please go ahead.
Yeah Rami looking at the enterprise market it was much stronger than seasonal on a sequential basis.
In fact it was the best since the first quarter of 2010.
So maybe you could walk us through some of the drivers I know Robyn mentioned enterprise routers.
But what’s the dynamic in enterprise that it came in so much stronger than seasonality.
Okay.
Thanks Brian.
Let me start yes we are pleased with our enterprise performance at least from a sequential standpoint.
There are a couple of dynamics here.
First and foremost is from a industry vertical standpoint the government is actually helping here.
We are seeing good strength in some projects that we have with the government agencies and this helps us and switching helps us and routing it also helps us to some extent and security as well.
Beyond that the focus that we have on this transformation that’s happening towards cloud based service delivery is very important.
So we are working right now with a large Fortune 500 company and building out their cloud infrastructure around the globe.
And that is a testament to the strength that we have in our MetaFabric architecture and the switching product that we’ve introduced into the market.
It’s also a beautiful example of how security ties in really effectively to complete the cloud solutions that we offer to our customers.
I expect that to continue.
Okay.
And just around the product cycle when is the bulk of the products hitting the market becoming generally available in the second quarter or third quarter? Thanks.
It starts in the second quarter but it actually goes throughout the second half of this year.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to management for any closing remarks.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you everyone for joining us today.
We appreciate your participation and your great questions.
Before I close I just want to give a head up for the Juniper IR and SG&amp;A team that worked out the new format for today’s call.
We hope you found it helpful and we love to hear your feedback.
Thanks everyone.
Talk to you soon.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.
Greetings.
And welcome to the Juniper Networks Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now turn the conference over to Ms.
Kathleen Nemeth Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you Ms.
Nemeth.
You may now begin.
Thank you Operator.
And thanks for joining us today to discuss Juniper Networks second quarter financial results and outlook for the third quarter of 2015 which we announced earlier this afternoon.
With me today are Rami Rahim Chief Executive Officer and Robyn Denholm Chief Financial and Operations Officer.
Today's call may contain forward-looking statements including statements concerning Juniper's business economic and market outlook strategy future financial operating results capital return program and overall future prospects.
Actual results might differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.
Additional information that could cause actual results to materially differ from those in these forward-looking statements are listed in our most recent 10-Q the press release and in other documents that we file with the SEC from time to time.
All statements made during this call are made only as of today.
Juniper undertakes no obligation to update the information in this conference call in the event facts or circumstances change after the date of the call.
Our discussion of the financial results today will include non-GAAP results.
Full GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation information can be found on the Investor Relations section of our website.
For important commentary on why our management team considers non-GAAP information a useful view of the company's financial results please consult the press release furnished with our 8-K filed with the SEC today.
Now I'll turn the call over to Rami.
Thanks Kathleen and welcome everybody.
We delivered a solid second quarter for 2015.
Revenue was stronger than the outlook we provided partially as a result of recognition of differed revenue but also as a result of an overall improvement in demand across several of our key customer verticals.
I am particularly pleased with the broad diversity of both bookings and revenue in the quarter.
Strong operating margin and EPS reflect our ongoing focus on execution and our disciplined approach to managing our expenses while we invest in the future of the company.
I am proud of what we’ve accomplished while at the same time mindful that there is still more we can do to achieve our company's full potential.
This quarter we unveiled several new products and innovative new addition to the QFX5100 product family of datacenter switching that converges compute resources and customizable logic into the network.
And ultracompact three terabits per second core router the PTX 1000 that achieves unprecedented levels of power efficiency and performance.
And we also introduced enhancements to the SRX which make it the industry's fastest firewall that will enable our customers to secure their cloud network without slowing them down.
Our priority now is on execution as we expect to begin the first shipments of these new products in the near future.
We are investing a next generation IP networking and solutions in ways that help our customers perceive business transformations with profound effects on the cost efficiencies and time to market.
By engaging with our customers directly at the engineer-to-engineer level we've collaborated on solutions that produce the ultimate in agility and automation.
Building these relationships has resulted in some exciting new customers this quarter including some great technology innovators in Silicon Valley.
One of which is a fast-growing global transportation network company.
We're also pleased with the continued momentum we are seeing with our cloud services customers.
It's truly an honor that so many technology pioneers continue to look to Juniper to enable them to build the advanced IP networks that their businesses depend on.
I know how proud all of us at Juniper are about this.
Let me summarize some highlights this quarter across the routing switching and security components of our business.
While we are excited about the new products we announced this year this quarter's results reflect strong performance of our current routing portfolio and particularly a record quarter for both the PTX and MX series.
In Q2 momentum with the PTX accelerated as customers continue to embrace the architectural thesis behind this product line which radically increases transport efficiency in any IP wide area network.
We have been at the forefront of driving this vision for efficient high performance IP transport.
With the MX customers began adopting our recently introduced line card contributing to exceptionally strong MX revenue this quarter.
We also secured early orders for all our recently announced edge products including the ACX5000 and the virtual MX.
We are building on the clear success of our edge routing platform across all verticals and leveraging our worldwide market footprint to drive the architectural transition towards virtualization and programmability.
We believe our compelling routing solutions with our ongoing execution will continue to drive growth and enable us to take market share.
As an example we had our first revenue customers of the virtual MX in Q2 and furthermore our Northstar WAN SDN controller is in beta trials and is receiving positive field reception.
Our Contrail solution has moved into production deployment and is fast becoming the option of choice for OpenStack environments.
In switching we also had a record quarter for the QFX series.
We saw good momentum in the data center with broad based strength in the enterprise as well as growth for cloud providers and carriers.
Customers value our switching innovation in the data center because it helps them stay ahead of their need for scale and performance while also providing rich Layer 3 capability deep network visibility and automation.
We expect that our high leverage R&amp;D strategy will allow us to easily bring the innovation to our EX product family over the next year for a mission-critical enterprise campus and branch network.
In security I'm pleased with our revenue growth of 15% sequentially and 12% year-over-year excluding Junos Pulse.
Specifically these results were driven by growth in the high end and branch SRX products in cloud data center mobile carrier and enterprise customer segments.
Having said that there is still a lot of hard work for us to stabilize this element of our business.
I continue to expect 2016 to be the year of growth for us in security and I expect it to be a bit bumpy as we get there.
Juniper's integrated network security strategy enables us to be a strong provider of secure network and we remain confident we can win.
However it will take us time as I stated.
We continue to see industries trends unfolding largely as we expected.
There is no shortage of demand for network innovation as more and more organizations are turning to the cloud to transform their business and as network traffic growth remains healthy.
Our results speak to the fact that our strategy is resonating with our customers and we will continue to deliver on our vision to be the worldwide leader in network innovation.
In closing we remain steadfast in our commitment to drive profitable long-term growth and increase shareholder value.
We continue to execute with a sense of urgency and a disciplined approach to how we manage the business.
I am thankful for our customers partners and stockholders who share our vision and for our outstanding employees who work hardest to help us achieve our success.
Now I'll turn it over to Robyn to share her thoughts on the quarter.
Thank you Rami and good afternoon everyone.
Similar to last quarter we posted my detailed CFO commentary on our website prior to this call.
For the second quarter of 2015 we delivered strong financial results which reflected strength in our underlying business and the focused execution to our strategy.
Our results succeed in both our revenue and earnings expectations for the quarter with solid sequential growth across routing switching and security.
The following factors contributed to the revenue outperformance this quarter.
Revenue recognized from product deferred revenue the majority of which was due to the delivery of product and feature commitments and a sell-through of channel inventory.
Demand was also better than we anticipated in the following areas cloud and cable providers enterprise and to a lesser extent a sequential improvement from regional carriers in the Americas.
The improved demand was also reflected in security which had a growth quarter primarily due to the timing of high end SRX deployments.
The underlying demand metrics were healthy this quarter with product book-to-bill greater than one.
Product backlog increased sequentially and significantly year-over-year.
As I mentioned the sequential decline of approximately 19% in product deferred revenue positively contributed to our results this quarter.
Our solid execution focus on revenue growth effective cost management and a significant reduction in our share count enabled us to deliver strong year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter non-GAAP operating margin and earnings per share expansion.
In the quarter we completed $600 million of share repurchases.
Since Q1 of 2014 inclusive of share repurchases and dividends we have returned approximately $3.4 billion of capital to shareholders against our commitment to return $4.1 billion by the end of 2016.
Now let's take a look at some of the underlying assumptions behind our outlook for Q3 and the demand environment in the second half of 2015.
Industry trends continue to unfold largely as we expected.
There is obviously some uncertainty around the macro environment conditions in China and certain parts of Europe.
We have factored into our outlook continued weakness in China and ongoing softness in the relative exchange rate of the euro.
Consistent with our view last quarter we anticipate an improvement in our revenue in the second half of 2015 relative to both the second half of 2014 and the first half of 2015 and this is based on the following assumption.
We expect continued diversification of our revenue with cloud and cable customers and improved demand from large US carriers.
We also expect continued improvement in the enterprise market along with growth from some of our international customers as they continue to build out their networks.
You can find the detailed outlook for Q3 in the CFO commentary available on our website.
In summary I'm pleased with our strong performance in Q2 and I would like to thank our team for their continued dedication and commitment to Juniper's success.
I now I would like to open the call for questions.
Thank you.
We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Rod Hall of JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Hi guys.
And thanks for taking my question.
Nice quarter as well.
So I wanted to start off I guess by asking you about the deferred revenue a little bit and see if you guys could dig into that in just a little more detail maybe give us some idea of what product categories the deferred revenue was released on.
As well as I guess Robyn in the guidance could you talk a little bit about do you expect another release of deferred revenue next quarter or is that more organic revenue growth that you're guiding for? And I've got a follow-up.
Thanks Rod.
I'll answer that question and if Rami has anything to add I'm sure he'll chime in.
On the deferred revenue as you know on the balance sheet we have services in product deferred revenue.
Our product deferred revenue quarter-over-quarter was down about $48 million.
Some of which obviously we were expecting and anticipated in the guidance and some of which we didn't.
So I wanted to call out the fact that we did see some upside in terms of the quarter’s absolute results that came off the balance sheet.
Having said that we are very very pleased with the underlying demand and so as you can see our demand metrics are very healthy for the quarter both in terms of product book-to-bill but also in terms of the overall strength across the routing switching and security areas and in the fact that the backlog is up significantly year-over-year.
So primarily the product deferred revenue in terms of guidance for Q3 obviously we always have projects that we are delivering and new projects that come on to the balance sheet as well as future features that we're delivering through our software releases.
And so for Q3 we don't expect a material change in terms of any further recognition.
The other thing that I wanted to point out in Q2 part of the reduction in product deferred revenue was associated with the channel.
So as you know we record revenue on a sell-through basis.
In terms of the channel inventory at the end of the quarter it was actually quite healthy demand in the enterprise space which we talked about which actually resulted in some of the deferred revenue reduction in the quarter.
Okay.
Thanks Robyn.
And I - just my follow up.
Well okay.
Can I have a follow up or no? Switch over to next question.
Okay.
No no.
Let's go to next question and we'll circle back if we have time.
Thanks Rod.
Next question? Thank you.
The next question is from Simona Jankowski of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thanks very much.
I just wanted to ask you in terms of just the – performance for the company now this is the third quarter would it been raised and that's before you've had the Tier 1 carriers kicking in in terms of the anticipated improvement in the second half and also before you test some of the recent product launches kick in as well.
So I just wanted to understand a little bit how much of this is a function of the end demand environment versus your own execution versus any other factors you might point to? Okay.
Great.
Thanks for the question Simona.
I'll start and I'll see if Robyn has anything to add.
Obviously we were pleased with the results in Q2 and I think there are a couple of underlying themes that are indicative of what we saw.
First and foremost is the continued diversity in our business across a number of key verticals that have offset continued weakness in the telcos space.
So cloud cable were kite strong for us in Q2 but we're also seeing good business in terms of large enterprises and some of these we call a high-tech companies in the Valley and elsewhere.
The other thing that we saw happening in Q2 is just around the diversification across product lines.
We saw sequential growth healthy sequential growth across switching routing and security.
So all of that helped offset some of the cyclicality that would exist in the business.
And your question around the second half is essentially largely playing out as we have been articulating over the last several quarters where we expect to see some improvement in telco but we have not been waiting for that improvement to come ideally.
We have been in a mode of actively focusing on making sure that we have the products and the go to market focus to continue to diversify the business and that's what's helping – and I expect that to continue to help into the second half.
As you get even beyond the second half you know you mentioned the new products.
We remain extremely excited about the new products that we announced in the Q1 timeframe.
But those are not going to be significant contributors to revenue this year.
Those really start to contribute next year.
And that's yet another way that we help offset some of the cyclicality that exist in the business.
Yes.
Just to add and Rami said it very well.
We are pleased with the results in the quarter.
We are also pleased with the previous two quarters as you mentioned.
But we're not confused.
We are still down year-to-date on a revenue basis year-over-year and there is still a lot of work to do.
So the team is focused on doing that they are delivering.
The execution is very good from the team across the board and I've seen Rami talked about some of the underlying trends that we're executing towards.
So I think overall we're pleased with the health of the business.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Tal Liani of Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
Two questions.
First is about the operating margin.
25% this quarter 25.2% very high what's the target what's the next target and how do you think about it next year how much upside? And again if you cannot give a quantitative guidance maybe you can just speak about the puts and takes in what drives it up what drives it down so we know how to better model this.
Second question is about the strength this quarter.
Again it's a question that I can ask on a quantitative way or qualitative.
And the question is how much of the growth is pent-up demand meaning customers are waiting for new product for a while and there is concentrated orders in one quarter two quarters et cetera and after that it normalizes down.
And how much of it is more about you finally having something and then the opportunities are wide and big and it opens up new market et cetera? So I'm trying to understand the sustainability of what we are seeing this quarter? Thanks.
Okay.
Hey Tal.
This is Rami.
So let me start and then I will pass it over to Robyn.
On the operating margin we remain committed to our long-term model that we expressed to you guys in October of last year which is 25% in a 3 year timeframe.
Yes we hit 25% in the Q2 time frame.
I don't expect it to be consistently that in - throughout the 3 year period.
It might ebb and flow a little bit as it gets there but 25% in a 3 year timeframe remains our long-term model.
In terms of the question around the strength of the business pent-up demand.
There isn't really anything that would suggest it was pent-up demand that all got released on a new product or a new market opportunity.
In fact what we saw as we mentioned in our prepared remarks was strength across a number of our key product lines the MX the PTX the QFX all of which had record products.
We've been investing and innovating in all three product lines.
We've been consistently introducing new line cards new features and new capabilities.
We've been winning new business with them throughout all of last year and the last couple quarters of this year.
And what you're seeing now is the - that execution playing out in terms of strength.
So I don't think there is a sort of pent-up demand element that we're seeing right now that resulted in the strength in Q2.
It's just solid execution on the part of the Juniper team.
Yes.
I'll just add on the operating margin comment.
We are pleased with hitting 25.2% in the quarter.
Our view is that it shows the strength of the model.
We've been very disciplined on the cost side as Rami indicated.
We've obviously taken out structural costs over the last year.
We're investing in the right product areas and the team is continuing to do that.
But we're also demonstrating that there's a lot of leverage in this model.
If we get some upside in the revenue or some good growth in the revenue and we are up year-over-year if you exclude the Junos Pulse acquisition from the Q2 results of last year albeit modestly up and a lot of that dropped to the bottom line.
The other part of that which I'm sure you've noticed is that we are headed towards our 39% of revenue from an OpEx perspective which again as Rami mentioned we're committed to doing and we made very good progress for that this year.
So there's a long way to go before we hit what we stated last year in terms of the overall business model but we're pleased with the progress.
Thanks Tal.
Next question? Thank you.
The next question is from Amitabh Passi of UBS.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
Thank you for taking my question.
Rami you mentioned PTX a few times in the call today.
I was just curious is this incremental demand from existing customers are you seeing your footprint significantly expand? Maybe you should give us some clarity on the demand drivers.
And then Robyn just quickly on OpEx should we now expect OpEx at the upper end of your $1.9 billion plus or minus $25 million for this year.
Okay.
Thanks Amitabh.
So on the PTX question I think that it's both.
Its what we're seeing is business where we had already been deployed now expanding with some of the newer line cards and capabilities we've introduced into that product line.
We're also seeing new or use cases across different verticals so I will say for example the PTX because of its power efficiency and just the sheer scale has started to become adopted by the cloud provider customers.
They love that sort of technology and transport efficiency in that product line.
And I continue to believe that it will strengthen over time.
Keep in mind that we're about to introduce pretty incredible enhancements to it.
The announcements that we announced in the Q1 timeframe that triple the performance and reduce the power even further.
And there is a certain segment of our customers that just love that type of capability.
And I'll pass it on to Robyn for the OpEx question.
Thanks Rami.
So on the OpEx side as I mentioned in response to the last question about the operating margin.
We are very committed to prudent cost management over the future as we've demonstrated over the last year.
Our long-term model is to grow OpEx well within revenue and we've done - we've obviously been taking out OpEx at a faster rate than our revenue declines over the last period of time.
We are below the last few quarters in terms of the percentage of revenue.
We've been above 40% in Q1 in the back half of last year in terms of OpEx as a percentage of revenue and we're headed toward the area that we outlined in October of last year of 39%.
So our view is that the business is strong and healthy as we mentioned before.
We put out the $1.9 billion plus or minus $25 million at this time last year and we've executed to that very very well.
As we move forward as we start to see revenue growth then we expect to be towards that 39% of revenue in terms of OpEx.
And so you could say there are certain scenarios where you could see us be slightly above the 19 25 [ph] but it would be as a result of revenue factors and that would be on variable comp as opposed to investing more dollars.
It would be around that variable nature of the cost that we've been speaking about for some time.
Let me just emphasize that point.
If in fact we do see that we start to get to the top end of our OpEx range or even beyond that it it will not be because we will take our eye off the ball in terms of OpEx management it will only because – it will be because of the variable comp element that's tied to revenue.
And at that point I would just say that the focus should anyways tilt towards profitability and specifically OpEx as a percentage of revenue which this quarter or in Q2 was below 40%.
Excellent.
Thank you guys.
Thanks Amitabh.
Next question please? Thank you.
The next question is from Mark Sue of RBC.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Are we now at the point where we're making significant investment of this is the portfolio how should we think about the switching side continued investments there and how should we also think about security.
We're seeing a balance after many quarters of declines and particularly if you can give us a sense of how customers are resonating with a combined solution for both switching and tying that with security what landscape that continues to live up that would be helpful?.
Thank you.
Sure.
Thanks for the question Mark.
On the switching side I'm really pleased with the progress that the team has made.
From a go-to market standpoint we continue to see more traction both in terms of service providers in the enterprise side.
I have said in the past that we have been competing in this space without a complete portfolio that includes our spine switches and that has limited the total addressable market opportunity for us.
That's largely now being addressed this year with a new series of QFX spine switches that we will start to introduce.
So that I think is going to help us maintain and improve the momentum over time.
Now it takes time for our customers to evaluate test - fully test and certify these new spine switches.
But so far the early feedback from our customers is very positive And your question around the portfolio itself that includes switching routing and securities is actually a very good one it is in fact a muscle that we're building in the organization and a clear strategy of ours to talk to our customers around cloud architecture as opposed to just switching in a silo.
We're doing all of our training around that and it's resonating with our customers and we've seen especially in terms of security there is this incredible opportunity to leverage insights that comes from switching and routing in the cloud that can help your overall security posture and also leverage your switching and routing in the cloud to install policies that can prevent the tax from spreading if and when they actually occur.
So that portfolio sale is very much part of our strategy and all the sings are that it's actually working quite effectively.
Great.
Thanks Mark.
Next question please.
Thank you the next question is from Jess Lubert of Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
Thanks for taking my question congratulations on a strong quarter.
My question is also for Rami and I also wanted to dig into the portfolio cell and specifically this is the first quarter in a long time where we're seeing switching routing and security all see very strong sequential results in the same quarter.
So I was hoping you could help us understand to what degree this is due to an uptick in customers buying a portfolio of your products and perhaps you can help us understand the pipeline you're seeing of large multi product deals the sales efforts here and to what extent you're seeing a competitive advantage from taking a multi product base selling approach? Right I think it's still early days and there is still a lot more potential for us if you will of leveraging portfolio selling to actually improve the overall results across all the different product line.
So that exists today it existed in the past but what we're doing right now is we're essentially doubling down on the marketing the collateral the sales training that will actually in fact help us make this the key differentiator for us.
The other thing that we're doing is we're implementing features.
So for example some of the tie in between security and switching routing I just mentioned in the answer to the previous question requires certain capabilities that you actually build into these product lines.
There are definitely -- I don't know the exact percentages that I can answer your question with but there are definitely large opportunities that we have won both in the enterprise and in the service provider but where it has been portfolio that some combinations of our products.
In Q2 strength in switching and in routing is anticipated I think the momentum there is solid because of the strength of our portfolio in each of those segment.
In security we still have more work to do.
There is -- we saw a good quarter I think because of the fact that we had great opportunities and revenue in both enterprise and SP but I think there could be a little bit of a bumpy ride as I mentioned in my prepared remarks before we get to sustained growth in 2016.
Thanks guys.
Thanks Jess.
Thank you.
The next question is from Brian White of Cantor Fitzgerald.
Please go ahead.
Yeah Rami I'm wondering if you could just update us on what you're seeing right now in terms of appetite for NFE and SDN solutions here and how you're thinking about it going into the next year? Thanks.
Sure Brian it's definitely part of pretty much every strategic discussion that we have with any one of our -- especially service provider customers in some cases also in the enterprise base but mostly on the service provider side.
Right now it's very much an architectural discussion of what's needs to evolve within the service provider network locations what we call central offices or PoPs as to set their infrastructure up in order to be capable of delivering next generation services using NFV.
For us what it means is first you need to develop great VNS virtual network function.
It's our software services that will be delivered off the cloud and we're doing just that.
So we just recognized our first revenue in the virtual MX in the Q2 time frame and the virtual SRX is also a really great example of taking what is a physical product and take and using or leveraging all of the great functionality but repurposing to virtual machines sitting on generic server.
Those VNS and that architecture that's only part of the problem.
In order to really package the solution together you need to have automation and orchestration and the management to help our customers actually deliver these services with agility and with ease to their end users.
And this where product like Contrail comes in and most service providers that we're seeing are gravitating toward an OpenStack based orchestration solution our goal for Contrail is simple to make it the best networking stack for OpenStack.
And I have to say that the data we're getting directly from our customers but also through surveys.
for example that were conducted at the OpenStack forum just a few weeks ago suggest that we are heading in the right direction in terms of achieving that goal.
So it's still early days in summer but I feel very good about the discussions we're having the products we're building the way that we're executing and the go to market attention we have in terms of just making sure that we emerge as true winners in this space.
That was good thank you.
Thank you the next question is from Sanjiv Wadhwani of Stifel.
Please go ahead.
Thanks just one clarification and then a question.
On the clarification Robyn remind us if you've disclosed exposure to the cloud vertical as to percentage of revenues coming from there.
And then Rami a question for you wondering how much of the underlying demand in the telco vertical whether it's happened or it's coming is from 10 to 100 gig upgrades and if that's happening where we are in that cycle in that upgrade cycle? Thanks.
So thanks Sanjiv.
In terms of the percentage of revenue we haven't put out the overall mix in terms of percentage of revenue since Q3 of last year.
We will look to possibly do that in the next period of time.
Having said that what I will share with you like I did last quarter is the number of customers and our top 10 customers in the quarter.
So for Q2 our top 10 customers four were telco two were in the U.S.
and two were not in the U.S.
Five were cloud and cable customers and one was the large enterprise customer.
And so if you recall last quarter there was one more telco customer and one less cloud and cable customer in the top 10.
What I will also say is you know this underlying same as diversification is absolutely real in terms of that number of customers that we have in each one of the areas that we're talking about both in terms of telco not only U.S.
but also international.
The regional carriers as I mentioned in my prepared remarks today or in my commentary were actually good for us in the U.S.
in the second quarter.
And so the diversification is they are across all of the different verticals as well as within the vertical how many customers we're serving and then also the third element of geographic diversification.
And Sanjiv on your question around 10 to 100 gig migration and that helping with momentum in the telco space.
I think that has actually largely started in certain network layers of the service provider space a while back in the wide area network and the metro networks and we certainly benefited from that to some extent.
But beyond that I think it will continue and it will move into different use cases and applications.
Cloud providers for example loved the fact that our security portfolio the high end SRX actually supports 100 gig interfaces to connect their clouds to the wide area network and when it comes to 100 gig interfaces on a firewall that we're the only game in town.
Really so that's the use cases have actually became a very good use case for us.
And then certainly there is a migration that's happening in the core of the datacenter as well that we are taking advantage of.
I don't think that there was any sort of a step function change anytime recently.
I think this is an ongoing transformation that's happening across the SP space and the cloud space and the cable space that we'll continue to take advantage of.
Got it thank you helpful.
Thanks Sanjiv.
Thank you the next question is from James Faucette of Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Thanks very much.
I just wanted to ask two questions first Rami I think you've mentioned a couple of times that or always that there were record product revenues at least in some of the product families.
Just if you could elaborate and clarify that and then Robyn you may have mentioned this but I apologize if I missed it but just wondering if you could give a little insight as to what's happening in Asia and kind of the reason that geography seemed under perform a little bit some of the others and how you're thinking about that going into the second half of the year I think you've said you tried to model that conservatively but just a little bit more color there would be helpful thank you? Okay thanks James.
Let me start on the record product question and then I'll pass it over to Robyn to comment on the Asia question.
Yes so we did say and that is a fact that three of our product lines our flagship product The MX the PTX QFX all has record revenue quarters in the Q2 time frame [indiscernible] services by the way.
Thanks for the reminder and each for a different reason.
The MX has always been a very successful product and we continue to invest in that platform to keep ahead of the demand for capacity but also the demand for services.
The thesis pieces behind the MX was all around conversions is around simplifying your edge architecture by deploying a single platform that can deliver all services.
I think we were pioneers in articulating that thesis and executing that strategy and we've benefited from that and we've introduced new line in card new capabilities to actually make this more of a reality and we certainly saw the results in Q2.
PTX this is a product line that we knew when we initially shipped it would require a bit of a different mindset around how to develop and build out a next generation core architecture we called it the super core.
And this requires a bit of a different approach to how one might in fact architect a wide area core or a wide are metro network.
And quite frankly it took us a bit a time took us some time to make sure our customers were educated on the transformation that's required but also on the benefit that they could reap from this architecture and I'm very happy that we're seeing sort of that transition happened and we are starting to see faster growth from the PTX that proves that the pieces that we had made initially was the right one.
QFX this is -- first again we continue to add new capabilities to our QFX topper bracts which is in our access switches but we're also just from a go to market stand point been focusing quite heavily on our datacenter opportunities our cloud opportunities and that's where the growth in the market is and that's where the differentiation that we have in the QFX in terms of things like the layer 3 capabilities really start to become very effective and the results are that we saw a great quarter for the QFX.
So let me talk about APAC and Rami can chime in as.
So APAC we did have a disappointing quarter there.
The revenues were down 10% year-over-year and 3% quarter-over-quarter.
We were anticipating a softness in China.
And in my outlook I mentioned that I expect that to continue.
Some of it is obviously geopolitical and also competitive factors in China.
If we excluded China actually the revenues would have been up for the rest of the APAC 11% sequentially.
So we've talked previously about -- obviously about different regions within Asia Pacific we're seeing good design wins and growth in the Asian countries Malaysia and Singapore obviously Indonesia we have seen some good wins in India.
Although that market we're continuing to increase our capabilities in.
In terms of the New Zealand operations in Q2 had a good quarter.
Japan was slightly soft but actually not bad overall and the -- Korea was slightly negative as well.
But 10 to go more inline with service providers deployment just given the concentration that we have in those market around service provider.
So our view is in terms of the region we're making progress in a lot of different areas.
China was weak in the quarter and we expected to be weak as we move forward.
Okay.
Thanks James.
Next question? Yes.
The next question is from Ittai Kidron of Oppenheimer.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
And congrats on a good quarter.
I had a couple questions for you Robyn.
First on the deferred revenue again going back to that.
I understand that revenue came off the deferred into the revenue.
But why is it that you’re long-term deferred is the one part that’s actually been declining on a year-over-year basis for three quarters in a row into high teens what does that mean what's going on there.
And the second question goes back to the question Tal asked before you've effectively touched on your long-term target right now are you now at a mode where you are hiring you are net hiring on a year-over-year basis.
Do you feel that you've been running a little bit too hot meaning the revenue relative to the employee base that you have that you need to ramp.
I understand that your long-term you wanted to clearly drive revenue faster than OpEx.
But is there a three fourth quarter period where is there a little bit of a catch-up if you've gone a little bit too far maybe? So let me talk about deferred revenue.
So long-term deferred revenue is primarily services.
So we do service contract renewals on a one year and a three year basis.
And depending on the customer depending on whether they a renew on a one year or three-year basis.
And so the declines that you've seen are in the long-term are specifically to do with the proportion of three year versus one year at any point in time.
So obviously three year customers it will come down before they renew again for three years.
And so that's what you've been seeing fleet off on the long-term.
There isn't anything more than that in the long-term deferred revenue.
And so when those renew you will see that long-term actually increase again.
In terms of hiring I put the headcount numbers in my actual commentary.
So we ended this quarter at 8 815 head [ph] modestly up from the prior quarter.
The team is being very focused on how we actually continue to invest in the things that matter around the product portfolio and that type of thing.
I'm not expecting a catch-up in terms of headcount or significant increase in headcount.
We're managing things very well and quite honestly the teams are very productive the way we are.
Yes.
The only thing I'll add is we have what we need in the plan that we're working towards this year to invest in all the areas of innovation that we know we need to invest in for the - our long-term competitiveness in the spaces that we're in.
Yes.
That was something very conscious that we did – at this time of taking out the structural cost.
Okay.
Thanks Ittai.
Thank you.
The next question is from Kulbinder Garcha of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Maybe a question for Rami.
By basic question is given all the products and the success you are seeing across various different verticals.
Do you think by the end of this year that Juniper will be in a stage where will be sufficiently diversified you wouldn't have years of touch on longer periods of revenue declines you would have diversify especially away from service provider cycle or that require a little bit longer of trying to understand the timing of it? Thanks.
Thanks for the question Kulbinder.
I think this - the strategy that we're on and the focus across the key vertical segments cloud cable telco's financial services government is one that I think has a lot of list.
I mean the opportunity for us in cable for example or in cloud appears to be very good and sustainable.
I know for example let me just tick on one vertical in the cloud space where we are very very close to them in terms of the architectural evolution of their network today but also in the future and also in terms of the capabilities the features the performance the scalability that we are implementing into our new products that will be released over the coming year and beyond.
It's just a function of our strategy and I think that it's something that can actually play out for a long period of time.
Very difficult to put a time period on it but it is not something that I see as an immediate or short term end to.
Thank you.
Okay great.
Thanks Kulbinder.
We'll go to the next question.
Thank you.
The next question is from Vijay Bhagavath of Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Yes thanks.
Yes congratulations Rami to new team solid results.
Quick question if I may is on the Web 2.0 cloud customer segment more recently we have been hearing Arista and perhaps Cisco starting to leverage new merchant silicon for routing in particular data center routing which could soon scale up into the core telco network? So like to get your understanding of the competitive dynamics that you see from your point of view from a pricing point of view mainly and also from a feature performance point of view competing with these news merchant silicon Layer 3 switch routers versus what you have currently in your portfolio with MX and PTX? Thanks.
Sure Vijay.
So clearly – first let me just say this.
We use both merchant and also our own silicon across the variety of products in switching and routing and in security.
We are absolutely not going to be religious about using our own or somebody else's.
We're going to choose the best silicon and to solve the problem in the most effective and differentiated way possible.
And before we embark on a new silicon project ourselves at Juniper we go through very extensive analysis to make sure that it is in fact something that’s going to differentiate us and therefore pay off because these chip projects as you know are not inexpensive projects and we've done exactly that.
If you look at the cloud space for example the access layer where it really comes down to pricing not that much differentiation in certain market segments.
You can easily go to commodity.
As you get into the core the need for power efficiency programmability the need for logical scale IP routing capabilities becomes greater.
And so the opportunity to differentiate with your own silicon becomes evident or becomes theirs.
And so that's what we've - essentially what we have done.
In the competitive environment we understand.
I mean this is a competitive space and both from the standpoint of systems vendors that are using merchant or their own silicon and also from the standpoint of merchant silicon technology that's out there.
And as long as we are innovating and focusing on the parts of the market where we know that we can achieve differentiation then that's what we will do we'll choose the best tools and technologies for the right areas of the network.
Okay.
Thanks Vijay.
Next question please? Thank you.
Our next question is from Subu Subramanian of Hinduja Group [ph].
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Rami my question was around visibility around the Tier1 carrier improvement that you've been mentioning and expecting for second half.
Obviously September quarter guidance is a little bit more flat quarter-over-quarter are you expecting towards fourth quarter more normal seasonality and is that when we should start seeing the US Tier 1 carriers improved.
Could you talk about the outlook for the US Tier 1 carriers? Subu let me just make sure I correct something that I hope people understand that the guidance for Q3 and then I'll hand it over to Rami on the visibility question.
So you mentioned the word flat Q3 to Q2.
Actually it's up.
So the way I want you to think about it is if you take out of Q2 results the deferred revenue impact it's on all of the $48 million a large portion of that and then you actually look at that versus the guidance.
What you'll see is that we are actually projecting an increase quarter-over-quarter in the underlying business.
More consistent actually with what we've seen historically when we've had growth years in terms of Q3 over Q2.
So with that I'll hand it to Rami to talk about the visibility.
Sure.
First I just want to emphasize the fact that while the telco space remains a very important vertical for us we are by no means tied completely to that space in terms of what drives our business.
The diversification across the vertical and across products is certainly helping us in dampening if you will some of the effects of the lumpiness in that space.
As far as the second half it really is consistent with what we have been saying over the last several quarters.
We expect to see some improvement but that's going to be complemented with continued diversity.
That's going to help us achieve the results that we're expecting for the second half.
Understood.
Thank you.
Thank you.
I think we have time for maybe one or two more questions.
So next question operator? Thank you.
The next question is from Paul Silverstein of Cowen.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
I appreciate you taking my question.
First off just housekeeping were there any 10% customers? Secondly if you already said it I apologize but what was the – what pricing environment are seeing both on the service prior to routing side as well in enterprise switching.
And then question I have listened and I've heard your comments here in terms of the diversification of the business.
But I'm just wondering to what extent is the strength you are seeing now in you expect in the future to what extent is that project driven and competitive dynamics were you having greater success with the new platforms et cetera? And to what extent are you seeing an improvement in demand.
Obviously there is been quite a number of data points about enterprise weakness from others throughout the IT spectrum.
And again I'm wondering to what extent is this in demand versus the project? Thank you.
Okay.
Paul I'll handle the first couple of questions and then Rami can chime in.
So in terms of 10% customers there weren't no 10% customers in the quarter.
What was the second question… Pricing.
Pricing.
So in terms of the pricing environment obviously it's a consistently competitive environment globally.
But as you saw from the gross margins we had pretty healthy product gross margins which reflects not only the ongoing competitiveness of the portfolio but also the cost reductions that we continue to focus on in the supply chain.
So from our perspective no discernible difference in the competitive dynamics in the quarter.
On the question around market versus projects and I am assuming you are really asking about whether something specific to Juniper in the projects we're engaging and versus something that's more broader.
It really depends and in some cases it’s very difficult for us to tell really.
But in the cloud space for example in our switching what you are seeing there is more of the market opportunity shifting towards the data center.
So we ourselves as a company are diverting more of our intentions especially on the go to market side on the support side to that opportunity and benefiting from the growth in that market segment.
I think in other verticals like maybe in the cloud space it actually could be more project driven.
It could be more of a market share phenomenon that's happening because we have traditionally been really strong and very close to that vertical and something that's paying off for us.
So it's a mix and difficult to really break out in any precise detail.
And Paul I just want to make sure the telco customers are important customers to us as well.
We're not saying that we are diversifying away from the customers.
They are important.
They will continue to be important.
Having said that the innovation that we're delivering is as relevant to other parts of the market and through the changes that Rami mentioned in terms of not just the portfolio but also the go to market notion.
We're actually driving revenue growth through those other verticals as well.
So I think that's a very important point.
And I think earlier in the questions there was the comment around cyclicality.
There's no question one of the reasons why we decided to work on the go to market muscle in terms of some of these other verticals was exactly to that reason to offset some of that cyclicality as we move forward.
Thanks Paul.
Operator we have time for one more question.
Certainly.
Our final question comes from Jeff Kvaal of Nomura.
Please go ahead.
Fantastic.
Great.
Hi Jeff.
Hi everyone.
Thank you.
I think one of the things that you folks have hit on in some of your commentary about the routing market is the blurring of the line between the core and the edge.
Can you help us understand in a little bit more detail about what that means for you I think at a high level one might say okay great you can use your strengths in the quarter to improve your share in the edge.
But then conversely one might wonder if Alcatel [ph] act which has some presence in the edge may have a broader addressable market for them for example? Yes.
Thanks for the question Jeff.
I guess the diversity what it means or sorry the blurring what it means for us is that when we go and develop our products we develop them in such a way that we becomes somewhat agnostic as to where in fact they will be placed to deal with the massive amount of IP transport traffic.
In some areas in might be in more of a nationwide or even a global network in some areas it might be more of a metro network.
What's happening today architecturally is data centers in some cases are being built in more distributed locations which puts more pressure in the metro areas and in some cases then more central locations that will put more pressure in the core areas.
If we build the products that will deal with either architectural case then we win either way and that's exactly the goal.
So take for example our PTX product line.
It comes in a large and medium and now with the PTX1000 a small form factor and that's a perfect example of how we are building these products and the capabilities of these products to address interest the issue of scale or the challenge of scale irrespective the architecture that the customer ultimately wants to sell.
It makes more difficult for us to break out our numbers into core and edge we can sort of estimate it.
But I sort of tend to measure ourselves now as more as routing all up in the wide area network as opposed to specific to core edge.
Okay.
Would that be misstating to you to say it becomes easier for you to sell the architectural play and therefore you think it's an advantage relative to some people who traditionally have been stronger just in one or the other? I would agree with that.
Yes.
Okay.
All right.
Okay good.
Thank you all very much.
Thank you.
Thanks Jeff.
Thank you everyone.
This will conclude our call for today.
Thank you as always for your great questions.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
And thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Juniper Networks Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Ms.
Kathleen Nemeth Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you Ms.
Nemeth.
You may now begin.
Thank you Operator.
And thanks for joining us to discuss Juniper Networks third quarter financial results and the outlook for the fourth quarter of 2015 which we announced earlier this afternoon.
With me today are Rami Rahim Chief Executive Officer; and Robyn Denholm Chief Financial and Operations Officer.
Today’s call contains forward-looking statements including statements concerning Juniper’s business outlook economic and market outlook strategy future financial operating results capital return program and overall future prospects.
Actual results might differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.
Additional information that could cause actual results to materially differ from those in these forward-looking statements are listed in our most recent 10-Q the press release furnished with our 8-K filed today and in other documents that we filed with the SEC from time to time.
All statements made during this call are made only as of today.
Juniper undertakes no obligation to update the information in this conference call in the event facts or circumstances change after the date of the call.
Our discussion of the financial results today will include non-GAAP financial results.
Full GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation information can be found on the Investor Relations section of our website.
For important commentary on why our management team considers non-GAAP information a useful view of the company’s financial results please consult the press release furnished with our 8-K filed with the SEC today.
Now I’ll hand the call over to Rami.
Thanks Kathleen.
Good afternoon and welcome to our third quarter financial results call.
Juniper delivered another quarter of strong financial performance with robust demand metrics and solid year-over-year earnings expansion.
Our customer diversification strategy continues to yield positive results with revenue booked sequentially and year-over-year across routing switching and security.
Notably this quarter we saw strong performance within our telecom and targeted enterprise vertical.
Security was also a highlight with double-digit growth driven by our high-end SRX products.
Overall I’m pleased with the strong pipeline and execution across key areas of the business.
The industry is in rapid transition moving towards cloud delivered value.
This paradigm shift to the cloud is changing the way we access technology and how IT services are being delivered.
In this era of massive transformation the network is at the heart of the action.
Our goal as a pure play in high-performance networking is to make sure we invest and innovate to capture this transformation as it is happening and our customers are looking to us to support them in their evolution.
We continue to lead the industry with technology innovation.
In the quarter we know announced the new reference architecture called Juniper Networks Unite for the cloud-enabled enterprise.
It demonstrates our commitment to the enterprise campus and branch segment and our ongoing focus on IP network innovation.
The new reference architecture includes our new Junos Fusion Enterprise fabric which enables customers to simplify management of large enterprise campus network.
We also announced new security innovation that will enable sophisticated threat intelligence prevention and dynamic policy enforcement.
We are forging new alliances and partnerships that will help us drive top-line growth and market expansion.
In the quarter we extended our partnership with NEC to help provide IP transport routers to Telenor Group.
We are also expanding our technology alliance ecosystem adding Aerohive network who will along with Ruckus and Aruba will help us deliver a simple secured and cloud managed wired and wireless solution for distributed enterprises.
Because of our clear focus on execution we are seeing some great customer product traction.
Among our top customers in the quarter our globally recognized high-tech company and four of our top 10 are cloud or cable provider.
Has our customers look to the future they recognize Juniper’s unique value proposition to deliver the ultimate in performance agility and automation and we are empowering such companies as British Airways and Telefónica Spain to deliver world-class cloud services without compromise.
In addition we are pleased with several new design wins at multiple leading-edge technology companies.
I’ll summarize some highlights this quarter across our technologies.
First I want to underscore how strategic our Contrail solution is in defining the IT and business evolution to the cloud.
Customers are moving towards open-source products software-driven automation and containers and micro services.
We secured each headwinds in three major segments Software as a Service Public Cloud and Telco Cloud and FBE.
Of note AT&amp;T was a landmark deal for us this quarter.
In routing we grew 13% year-over-year.
Most verticals continued to grow with solid quarter-over-quarter growth in telecom and national government.
We had another record revenue quarter for both the PTX and MX series.
And in Q3 adoption of some of our newest products the PTX5000 PTX1000 ATX500 accelerated.
In switching we had another record revenue quarter for the QFX series.
The QFX10000 continued to see good traction along with the QFX5100 with service providers cloud and enterprise customers.
We also saw strength in the EX family switches with enterprise government and service provider customer.
In security we saw our second consecutive quarter of year-over-year growth excluding Junos Pulse.
Our security business is showing early strength in the high-end SRX with cloud and service provider customers.
And branch SRX is doing low in government and managed service provider and enterprise account.
We believe the combination of new threat detection capabilities and new security partnerships is a catalyst spurring our return to growth.
The course we set for ourselves is now playing out largely as we anticipated.
By remaining resolute in our focus as a pure play in high-performance networking we are creating tremendous value for our customers and our shareholders.
Overall while we acknowledged that recent industry consolidation activity could create some volatility we believe overall spending trends remains healthy.
Industry dynamics continue to unfold as we expected and our Q4 guidance incorporates our view of the macroeconomic landscape.
The world needs a company like Juniper networks.
We have a clear and deliberate strategy.
And as a challenger in this industry I continue to see tremendous opportunity for us to challenge the status quo and deliver on our vision of being the worldwide leader in network innovation.
I want to thank each of our employees for being critical part of this incredible journey.
And thanks to our customers partners and shareholders who believe in our vision to empower everyone in this increasingly connected world.
I remain focused on disciplined execution of our business and prudent investments for growth to realize Juniper’s full potential.
Now I’ll turn it over to Robyn to review a few highlights of the quarter.
Thank you Rami and good afternoon everyone.
Our third quarter 2015 results reflected good year-over-year and sequential revenue and earnings growth.
We also demonstrated the strength of the diversity of our revenue across multiple verticals technologies and geographies.
Specifically we saw year-over-year and sequential revenue growth in both EMEA and APAC as well as solid growth in the enterprise across all geography.
We are pleased with the ongoing year-over-year growth and healthy underlying demand from cloud providers.
However as we have noted this vertical can be lumpy due to the timing of deployment.
As a reminder our second quarter 2015 results for routing in the Americas were positively impacted by the recognition of deferred revenue for the delivery of product and feature commitments.
In reviewing our top 10 customers five were telcos three which were outside of the U.S.
four were cloud and cable providers and one was an enterprise customer.
We expected diversification trend to continue demonstrating the increased relevance of our product portfolio across multiple verticals and geographies.
Our underlying demand metrics were healthy this quarter with the year-over-year and sequential increase in product deferred revenue and a product book-to-bill greater than one.
For the quarter we delivered strong year-over-year non-GAAP operating margin and earnings per share expansion which reflects our solid execution focus on revenue growth effective management of our cost structure and significant reduction in share count.
We are pleased that we delivered results in line with our long-term model of 39% non-GAAP operating expense as a percentage of revenue.
In the quarter we had strong cash flow from operations of $293 million as a direct result of our accrued operating margin.
CapEx for the quarter also increased to $71 million as we focused on investments to drive long term productivity and support continued innovation and developments of new products.
We repurchased $50 million of shares and paid $39 million of dividend.
Through Q1 of 2014 inclusive of share repurchases and dividends we returned approximately $3.5 billion of capital to shareholders against our commitment to return $4.1 billion by the end of 2016.
Now let’s take a look at some of the underlying assumptions behind our outlook for Q4.
We expect the demand environment across multiple verticals to remain healthy and anticipate the diversification of our revenue to continue.
We expect continued uncertainty around the macro-environment in China and certain parts of Europe which we have factored into our outlook.
We also anticipate the exchange rate of the U.S.
dollar to other currencies to remain strong.
I’m very pleased with the ongoing operational discipline including operating expense management across the company.
Our new products are gaining traction with our customers given the underlying healthy demand environment and to ensure that we capture the growth opportunities from these new products we anticipate making modest increases to our go-to-market resources over the next few quarters while remaining in line with our long-term model of non-GAAP operating expense as a percentage of revenue of 39%.
You can find the detailed outlook to Q4 in the CFO commentary available on our website.
To summarize I am pleased with the strong performance in Q3 including demonstrating the ability to achieve our long-term model.
We anticipate overall demand to remain healthy across our target verticals and geography.
We continue to see good traction with our customers brand-new product innovations as evidenced by new design wins and a growing pipeline.
As we close out the year we remain focused on execution and delivering on our strategic commitment.
I would like to thank our team for their continued dedication and commitment to Juniper’s success.
And now I’d like to open the call for questions.
Thank you.
We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Jim Suva of Citi.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and congratulations to you and your team there at Juniper.
A quick question you mentioned about investing more for the future but still within your financial goals which is great.
For the investing in those items can you help us a little bit more is that focused on say geographic expansion or product expansion or certain areas like software security or certain parts that you’re little softer? And also the timing of when these harvesting of these investments should start to see some growth where we should start to see some fruit from that investment? Thank you.
Yes thanks for the question and the comments Jim.
Let me just start and then I’ll pass it over to Robyn.
First and foremost as a pure-play innovator the goal for Juniper is really to continue to make sure that we have really differentiated products in the market segments that we are going after.
We have incredible product pipeline as we talked about earlier this year and it’s now in the process of shipping.
And we’ve also consistently said that when we invest we’re going to invest in a way in a prudent manner with discipline that’s commensurate with the growth of the company.
That’s a discipline that Robyn and I are absolutely driving through organization right now.
It’s one that I think is paying off.
If you just take a look at the profitability metrics in terms of operating margin and OpEx as a percentage of total revenue for the company in Q3 timeframe.
And I’ll pass it Robyn if you want to add anything else.
Yes so specifically Jim what I mentioned in my commentary was that we will invest modestly as we move forward here on the go-to-market side.
And Rami mentioned from a product delivery point of view we’re very excited about the new products that we are delivering in to the market.
We’ve seen good receptivity to those products.
And so we’re adding prudently to the go-to-market and that to make sure that we are capturing the opportunity that’s out there.
Thank you and congratulations again to you and your team.
Thanks Jim.
Thank you.
The next question is from Tal Liani of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Hi just first a follow-up to the previous question.
Does it mean - so you’re now at an operating margin of about 25% give or take.
What does it mean from a margin target that the fact you want to invest more? What does it mean for the margin target going forward? That’s number one.
Number two I want to ask more about the market itself.
There was a routing cycle.
You recovered from some weakness we had in previous quarters.
How is - what’s the outlook? Was there just a recovery from the lows? And then there is a new level and from there it goes flat because I see it was flat sequentially this quarter.
Or do you see demand continue to creep up go up because of certain reasons you can identify the reasons? Thanks.
Okay.
Thanks Tal.
So let me start then I’ll also hand it over to Robyn.
On the margin target I think the results that you saw in Q3 with respect to our operating margins being north of 25% and also again our OpEx as a percentage of revenue being in line with our long term model.
The long term model that we outlined to our shareholders at the end of 2014 is intact.
And the results of that you see here should eventually give you confidence and it gives us a lot of confidence that we can absolutely achieve that long-term model.
That’s how I would think about it.
And certainly that requires a level of disciplined execution and investment that are driving through in the company today that I’m honestly quite proud of how the team is executing on.
On the second question with respect to routing the trends that we’re seeing in routing in the second-half are largely playing out as we have been describing over the last several quarters.
We said that there should be some improvement in telco spending in the second-half of the year.
And that’s essentially happening.
We did see that improvement not only in the tier 1 but also in non-tier 1 service provider.
Booking for routing it was actually quite healthy in Q3.
I think the softness was essentially is the result of cloud difficult compared relative Q2 because of the revenue recognition to book that we had in that quarter.
But visibility is solid and the product pipeline has never been this good in many many years in the company.
So I actually feel good about where we are with respect to routing.
Robyn? Yes I know I think you said it well on the margin side.
In terms of the percentage of revenue for OpEx we are targeting 39% of which we outlined last year and I will point out that whilst we got to the model this quarter we did get the last quarter as well from an operating margin perspective.
There is still a lot of work to be done to get there on a sustainable basis and an annualized basis.
So I think we’ll have the next question.
Manny can you… Excuse me.
Yes the next is from Simona Jankowski of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks very much.
Rami you commented on the recent industry consolidation but then you also made a comment that the world needs a company like Juniper.
I was just curious was that a reference to a preference you have to remain standalone versus participating in the consolidation? And then I have a follow-up.
Okay.
Thanks for the question Simona.
You look at the industry right now certainly there are examples of consolidation there is at least one example where the exact opposite of a split is in fact happening.
But these things that I want everybody to be aware of is the massive transformation that’s just happening in terms of technology in terms a new approach in that service providers and enterprises are using to deliver value to their end user that requires things like virtualization requires things like automation and visibility and analytics.
And that in my mind requires that there would be somebody that’s absolutely focused on innovation in the space of IP networking.
And I believe that’s the role that we satisfy in this industry as I go around the world and I talk to our customer CIO CTO CEO they all have the common theme in terms of requirements which is a technology provider that can partner with them to offer a new way for them to deliver services and values to their end users.
And they view us as that right partner that’s I think the role that we satisfy.
Thank you.
And then just a follow-up question which is to with your MX product which has been very successful over the years.
Some of your competitors physical there has been others are talking about addressing some of the routing features in the routing stack and then aggregated fashion on the switching platforms in the data center.
And I think you guys are considering or working on doing something similar but can you just address how that developments are might impinge on the opportunity for the MX and whether that’s kind of holistic whether you do it to yourselves or others do it to you? Sure.
Thanks for the question Simona.
So the MX success is a result of a few different things that one of the biggest elements of the success has to do with the diversity of used cases that is satisfied it really has turned into the standard Swiss Army knife if you will for this industry or has the ability to deliver all sorts of services whether it be business or residential or to serve at the edge of the data center connecting data centers together or connecting data centers to the consumer of cloud services.
I think it’s very difficult for anybody to target the MX it is entirety with all of the used cases that it serves the flexibility that we built round up from the start to make it very competitive.
Now let’s said I’m not confused about the fact that this industry is a competitive industry and we have to innovate in that way.
Yes I do believe that there will be competition that will go after specific used cases that the MX does target.
And in that case we either show and demonstrate the flexibility of the MX in solving that used case in a better way or we do have options ourselves with other products that we can use in our portfolio whether it would be the PTX or the new QFX10000 that can solve in particular used case in a more efficient manner.
So I think about it from a standpoint of yes the industry is competitive.
We now have a diverse future between the MX the PTX and the QFX that give us all of the weapons that we need to compete effectively.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Rod Hall of J.P.
Morgan please go ahead.
Yes thanks for the question.
I just wanted to focus a little bit more on switching the numbers better than we expected momentum that continues yet what are other data points out there pointing to enterprise in many regions.
I just wonder Rob could you just comment on where we are with the major projects that you guys are seeing and switching or implementing and have you added more of those projects that was allowing it’s about trend and then I got a follow-up.
Sure Rod.
In switching I think the strength was broad-based and there we saw a good diversity of business across both the service provider and the enterprise.
We also saw healthy demands for switching around the world which certainly help.
And when you think about switching for us it really comes down to cloud.
There is a consistency across pretty much all of our market verticals.
In the enterprise there is a Cloud-First Mentality where CIOs are looking to move workloads and applications to the clouds and the service provider segment and the cable provider segment they are looking at delivering more value to end users through cloud-based architectures.
I think our switching routing and security portfolios are coming together under the mega fabric architecture framework in a way that’s really resonating with our customers.
And the roadmap with the new set of spine switches that were in the process of shipping into the market today is looking very solid in the eyes of our customers.
I think I’m bullish on the long-term prospects we’re switching given all of these trends and because of the differentiation that we have in our product portfolio.
You had a follow-up Rod? Hi Manny or Rod are you there? Yes.
The next question is from Pierre Ferragu of Sanford Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
</strong>after Pierre you could put Rod back into his follow-up.
Hi guys.
Thank you for taking the question.
I would want to ask many questions you’ve been doing so great on so many dimensions.
So maybe I would just restricted to switching and security.
In switching because to know if how like the ramp up of your product to high density spine QFX switch is doing and how much it has an impact in numbers this quarter.
And if we should expect some website from this product trend but only one or two quarter horizon.
And then on the security so impressive to see SRX platform doing so well at the moment.
And it would be curious to know where are you winning with the platform at the moment and how are you replacing like nagging in the broad-based that you had out there so is that the product cycle are you winning this are you displacing competitors that would be very good to know that.
And then almost everybody asked you that.
I can’t helping us one more question on how we should think about that going forward.
Would that be fair to think that you guys whatever - whichever we think it’s happened going forward I probably not going to grow your cost basedin the OpEx based on your revenues is that the fair statement.
And sorry for the embarrassing question.
That’s okay.
Yes.
Let me handle the last one first and then Rami will talk about switching and security.
So on the cost side absolutely we are focused on the discipline around cost management that we’ve shine over the last few years.
And we are very focusedon making sure that we only add modest amount of costs.
The increase between Q3 and Q4 again to meet point of 500 plus or minus in terms of OpEx.
The majority of that increase quarter-over-quarter the vast majority is actually variable cost.
So what we’re talking about is modest increase as we now go to market we’re very focused on delivering the leverage in the model as we believe is there in lying with our long-term model.
This is great thanks.
Thank you.
And hi Pierre.
Let me touch on switching and security.
So in the spine switches we’ve now shift the first version of the family of new QFX10000 spine switches we anticipate that we’ll get the second version now into our customers hand before the end of the year.
The traction that we’re seeing is solid I think that these products have been now in our customers lapse for some time and we’re getting feedbacks and we are eventually putting to finishing touches on those products.
I will say that the team really pushed the limits of technology developing these products and we did with the hope and the anticipation that we will have some two differentiation and it’s playing out exactly as we have predicted in terms of our differentiation relative to net sales in the market and I feel very good about that.
All that being said we have consistently set the modest revenue in the second-half of this year and that’s how I would think about it with the growth really starting to happen next year.
On the security side if you recall earlier in the year we talked about our security pivot we talked about reaching synergies from the standpoint of technology and cost as well as revenue we talked about switch and security is being instrumentally tight to the network.
And the initial focus for us was on the high-end.
If we offer a cloud network or a campus network to our customers we want them to have the peace of mind that it will be resilient it will be high quality it will be resilient to attached from that guide.
And that means that you should be able to secure the network with that’s flowing it down.
So with the initial focus on the high-end I think we’ve increased the confidence in the eyes of our customers we’ve improved the performance of the product lines dramatically it’s now effect the high endis directed the fastest firewallin the industry.
And so for certain used cases around the edge of the cloud in service provider and mobile infrastructure.
We really have to differentiate the products and we’re starting to see the effect of that.
That said I am not yet calling machine accomplished on security we’ve said that 2015 will be in the year of stability and we’ve still a lot of work quite frankly for us to do to shore up the rest of the product portfolio especially if it comes to the enterprise and that’s exactly what we’re focused on right now.
So pleased with what we’ve done so far a lot more work for us to do.
Yes.
And just I’ve added to that is we’ve said a numerous times this year is a year of stabilizing the security business year-to-date we are flat with 2014 obviously we have to grow that business next year but with place with the progress today and I just wanted to forward that ground we do a specific question here we will grow revenues faster than OpEx as we move forward that was part of our guidance when we set the long-term model last year.
So Excellent.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
With that we’ll turn to Rod Hall for his follow-up question.
Yes thanks for coming back to me.
Can you hear me okay? Yes.
Yes.
Go ahead.
So If I’m just going to ask about the routing business and one of you guys can comment on what you think happened to your share this quarter in market share and also on the Contrail on AT&amp;T which by the way congratulations on that.
I just wonder if you could maybe give us a little idea what the revenue opportunity that might look like what sorts of products that might pull through thanks.
Sure Rod.
On market share I don’t think all of the reports are collect yet but these share reports you have to look at them and dissect them into different areas.
I think in the edge based on the wins and the project that we’ve been executing on there is a large dynamic that’s happening around the world especially here in the US and in EMEA for edge modernization and consolidation simplification of edge architectures.
And just based on the project activity I believe that we’re doing quite well.
In the core I think it’s going to take a little bit of time for us as we go through the transition from T Series to the next generation of the PTX that we’re shipping this year that we’ve lost in the early part of this year.
So I’m not sure what’s going to happen there with respect to our share but I feel good about the roadmap and the focus in terms of the prospects for share gains going forward into next year.
On Contrail yes you pointed out one of the wins that we are very proud of and that is with AT&amp;T but let me say that pretty much every strategic discussion that we’re having with our customers around the world especially on the service provider side but also in some larger enterprises that are looking at transforming the way in which they manage their networks to simplify the operations of those networks and to add far greater agility in how they deliver services over those networks.
They are thinking about a new architectural approach and Contrail is part of that discussion.
So we added four new paying customers I think the engagements have expanded the developer community for the open source Contrail project is only growing the amount of innovation that’s not coming not just from Juniper but from our partners around the industry is also growing I’m really proud of what the Contrail team has done and continuous to do.
And AT&amp;T certainly who extremely created that project but I think that’s just an example of others that were also engaging in.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Jess Lubert of Wells Fargo please go ahead.
Hi guys thanks for taking my question and congratulations on another nice quarter here.
First I would hope you could tell us of getting 10% customers in the period and if so what category they would fall into.
And then secondly in Europe of course like your Carrier business is fairly strong so it’s helping to understand that was driven by a handful of large deals that would tail-off after a quarter or two where that was driven by a larger number of transactions that might be more sustainable and then perhaps you could provide an update on the Nokia partnership how that’s proceeding how confident you are in your ability to navigate any disruption once that deal is closed? Thanks.
Yes.
So Jess in terms of 10% customers there were no 10% customers in the quarter.
Again part of the strength of this quarter was actually the diversification of revenue in the quarter again with enterprise actually being quite strong telco being quite strong and obviously a sequential decline but still very healthy year-over-year growth in the cloud providers and cable area.
So I’ll let Rami talk through the EMEA service provider business.
Sure.
So in Europe actually the strength was fairly broad-based it was with both on the service provider the key or the tier 1 telecom operators but also in the enterprises and particularly government.
So actually I’m pretty pleased with the broad-based strength of the business there are certainly large deals in the SP space.
There are typically going to be large deals that drive the overall performance but I don’t think there is anything that’s atypical if you will in the quarter.
And then I will say that the project that we’re engaging in are really around a number of key used cases edge modernization in particular such as for example the announcement that we made recently with Telefonica Spain seems to be a really key scene in that region I think operators are looking to streamline their networks and deliver more value with great agility over this networks and for that you need a universal edge type product and the MX satisfies that role quite naturally.
On the Nokia I think we’re executing towards strategy and the plan that we outlined in the last earnings call.
We have enjoyed deep relationship with all of our customers around the world and where there is a need to make a change in our total market approach we’re doing that and we’re doing it to a schedule that I think is working very well for us so no concerns on that forefront.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
The next question is from Brian White with Drexel.
Please go ahead.
Yes Rami.
I wonder if you could comment a little about this product cycle we’re ramping up this year but if you had to provide us with an idea where we are in the revenue generation from this product cycle that would be great in terms of what percentage we are the way through and just the AT&amp;T win for the carriers often define networking maybe just a little more color on why Juniper was chosen and does this categorize existing business or net-net this is incremental for Juniper? Thank you.
Yes thanks Brian.
On the product cycle and I’m assuming here you’re talking about the newer product that we’re introducing market across routing switching and security it’s still early stages we’re consistently in that second-half we’ll see modest revenue on the routing side we haven’t yet shift the enhancements to the PTX product lines we’re very excited about.
I think the growth really started to happen in a meaningful way in 2016 and the early customer interest gave us confidence of these products of hitting the mark in terms of the challenges that they solve for our customers.
On AT&amp;T a couple of different projects that have been announced one is that we are participating in AT&amp;T network on demand initiative.
We’re doing this especially we’re offering we’re partnering with them to offer to end users enterprises.
And you weigh the rising value from their networks that gives far more flexibility into the hands of the customer itself.
So they will have the ability to choose on-demand the kinds of services that they want AT&amp;T to deliver to them and it’s a very soft or eccentric approach to market that has traditionally been driven by hardware and complexity.
And we want it quite frankly because we have challenged the ways in which these solutions were delivered historically.
We had actually little to nothing to lose because it’s essentially a net new market opportunity for Juniper.
And so we’ve demonstrated to AT&amp;T that we are a very willing partnered in that technology transformation and we’re delighted that we were successful.
And the second project is really around the very strategic network control-point this being Contrail that will provide the network automation in their next-generation central offices.
This is where I provided the commentary that this is just an example of the types of engagements we are having with service providers around the world.
The fact is that SP’s are really looking to a new approach to running their next-generation network facilities and delivering values from this facilities and the network controllers at barrister to control point in the new architecture and contrail and the traction it’s seeing is a big that’s very encouraging to us.
The next question us from Sanjiv Wadhwani of Stifel.
Please go ahead.
Rami I had a question about growth a year ago at the analyst day you had talked about 3% to 6% three year growth rate and understanding it might fluctuate in any given year.
Wondering if you could comment next year might be a typical year fall within that range and how some of your new products that really ramping next year might help out in terms of growth rate next year.
Thanks.
We are just going to stick it will be provided you at the end of 2014 in terms of the three your view.
Certainly the results that we’re seeing this year give us the confidence that we can achieve that three year view in terms of growth.
I think the fundamentals of the industry are solid.
I think the spending environment is good.
The product roadmap is healthy and you know all of those factors come together to give me the confidence in our ability to actually achieve the growth targets that we provided you.
We will provide you with some color into next year as we round out this year.
In terms of what we’re expecting from a growth rate perspective.
I guess just a quick follow up.
When you look at the new products do you think that could add to some dimension in growth? Just given that starting to ramp next year? Just qualitatively not just in terms of the actual addition or subtraction in numbers? Yes.
As we’ve been saying consistently our new product revenue for the products we announced earlier this year in March will contribute very modestly to revenue in 2015.
We expect revenue growth for next year to be more substantial.
The next question is from James Faucette of Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
I wanted to ask a similar question.
If we go back to last year last fall you are kind of outlining your growth targets one of the key tenants that you focused on was the eventual need for carriers to increase their spending particularly on core as core capacity was exhausted.
At the same time as we fast forward to this year service provider spending at least among the U.S.
is still been relatively flat without seeing much improvement there.
I’m wondering if you can give a little bit of color what maybe allowing the carriers in the U.S.
o do that? And secondly as they do start to increase their spend how much of an additional tailwind can this be.
It seems like with the good growth you’ve seen with the U.S.
Tier 1 the kicking in perhaps can be an accelerator and then similarly on security you’re delivering good year-over-year growth in that line in spite of the fact that you’re characterizing it as a 2015 as a stabilization.
So if that’s the case we expect to see further acceleration in security in 2016 as you turn the corner and start to enter into what you think to be true growth.
Thanks.
There’s a lot in there I’m going to see if I can address at all.
First in terms of carrier spending.
As I mentioned things are largely playing out as we expected in the second half and I expect the next quarter Q4 also be a good quarter to also be a good quarter for us in terms of carrier spending.
The dynamics between core and edge actually I’ve been consistently saying it’s become very difficult to break out those two domains.
Much of the pressure that’s happening in telecom networks today is in fact happening in the metro it’s happening in the edge and a lot of the product that have traditionally been used or deployed in the core are now actually going in the edge to deal with that tropic capacity.
So I’m really more measuring our success in carrier routing from overall routing standpoint as opposed to specific to one domain or the other.
That said despite the fact that we’re seeing some improvement in telcos we are not counting on that alone in driving our overall revenue growth we are counting on continued diversity in our business.
We saw that play out in the last couple of quarters with cloud kicking in to help some weakness in carrier spending.
We’re seeing it now this quarter with diversity across the enterprise government and different geos all of that is kicking in to support the overall growth.
And it really then demonstrates the power of that strategy to diversify our business from a technology standpoint from a market vertical standpoint and also from a geo standpoint.
On security again this year is all about stability as Robyn mentioned essentially we are flat year-to-date.
We still have I feel very good on where the work that has been done thus far on shoring up our competitiveness in the service provider high-end security space and in the cloud.
We still have some more work to do on the enterprise side and just in Q3 we announced a series of enhancements to our security portfolio under the umbrella of a new architecture called Juniper Unite.
That essentially brings to bear our security switching and routing assets together to create far more agility simplicity and ease of management that’s so important to our enterprise customers in the campus and in the canvas domain and that’s what we’re working on right now and I think that plays out in resulting growth in 2016 timeframe.
Let me just added to the first part of your question James.
On telco we actually saw good growth in the quarter both sequentially and year-over-year and globally modestly in the U.S.
but globally it was a nice quarter for growth.
So we’re actually anticipating that diversification to continue and we are expecting that to continue to improve again modestly.
The next question is from Kulbinder Garcha of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
I guess it’s for Rami and a lots been [indiscernible] call about diversifying your revenue base versus the charts that we saw last year this update on how some diversified you are now? And if you can’t get some of those numbers may be can you help us with the [Technical Difficulty] comfortable whereby Juniper could see through cycle revenue growth well it continues and you could offset on a continuous basis the typical service provider cycle that we see? Thanks.
I know that data that we had provided has been very useful and I think we can look to provide an updated view in the future.
From just a qualitative standpoint the strategy itself is definitely working out in terms of helping us offset what is in fact a cyclical industry.
Do we believe that we can completely offset large cycles that might happen in telcos? No.
I think that’s a pretty tall order but that said I think we’ve demonstrated with not just a diversity from a market vertical standpoint but diversity across the technology areas switching routing securities and diversity across geos.
I mean you look at Q3 enterprise kicked in and also EMEA and APAC kicked in that helped us in again creating the overall growth.
I think the strategy works.
I think it has legs and I think that it will help us in the future.
[Technical Difficulty].
And maybe just one very quick.
There’s a question I want to ask about the question from the Juniper perspective it seems to me that you guys are hitting most of the targets were heading toward most of the targets you want.
The ones I have always been question about is and given that you are achieving your working structure generating good cash return returning cash growing without the time that Juniper on the M&amp;A do think maybe accelerate some of your growth or is that how you see the business? Yes.
I’m actually open to M&amp;A and it will be as I said mentioned historically very much complementary to our strategy.
Tuck-in type technology M&amp;A’s that will be easy to integrate and work to accelerate the strategy that we are already executing on.
Having said that we are so focused right now on putting the finishing touches on what is a huge product pipeline that’s all coming to bear into the market simultaneously around the same time frame I honestly do not want to distract the team too much from that right now.
So timing is going to be important but that said I do believe that M&amp;A can be a good part of our strategy with the right timing and certainly something that’s complimentary to our overall strategy.
Next question is from Mark Sue of RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Robyn I think on the cost side you should just go spend the money so please go ahead.
As it relates to the tech competitors some are moving quickly to combined a stack converge and seeing some hyper converge.
Are there platform changes your customers are asking you to make or is it still about combining discrete assets of switching routing contrail just trying to get a understanding of the long tail migration opportunity with your current product set and how you might see clean page data centers being deployed.
I will say you’re actually hitting on a topic it’s very important to me and to my leadership team.
Today the growth that we’ve seen with Juniper products in the cloud have largely been as a result of companies enterprises telcos cloud providers that have the ability to choose best of breed and to combine them themselves in ways that solved the business challenges that they face.
That said there is a part of the marketing segment of the market the value out-of-the-box converged architectures that include compute storage networking and the software automations stack on top of that.
We have in fact been working with a number of different partners so we probably have around half dozen right now regional partners that are working with Juniper as well as storage providers and compute providers to build those converged stack offerings.
They typically are very targeted to specific market verticals so some might be targeted towards healthcare others toward retail and it’s still early days.
These are relatively new product offerings but I actually I feel pretty confident in their ability to at least give us some access to that converged or hyper converged market.
And can we assume that Juniper is resorting back to the practice of not revealing products that might actually already are being tested by some of your customers? Sorry the question was not revealing are not reviewing? The practice of not announcing products before they are scheduled to be shipped I see what you’re saying.
I think there is a balance here.
The practice of revealing products years in advance of ship I say yes that’s something that is well behind us.
We certainly will announce within a certain reasonable timeframe like a couple of quarters type of timeframe.
And I think there is value in doing that because what you do is you prime the market.
You get it ready for adoption but we are very careful in not revealing our cards if you will too early.
That said there is always a lot of deep dialogue and engagement under NDA with our customers where we’re not only revealing the products but we’re actually making them stakeholders in the developments of those products and making sure that those products satisfy their specific requirements.
Next question is from Ittai Kidron of Oppenheimer.
Please go ahead.
I had a couple questions.
First looking at your enterprise business this is the first quarter in five after five quarters where you had year-over-year declines in your enterprise business that you actually had a positive year-over-year growth in the enterprise.
So Rami it will be great to get some color as to how much of this is sort of a little bit of reversion to the mean after five back quarters versus your confidence in them more sustainable result out of that business and I’d like to apply that question as well to your security business.
Clearly you have had two very good quarters I’m wondering how much of it is just a reflection of the fact that clients have been sitting on the sidelines now that you have refreshed a product that are kind of updating architectures versus their true new wins new customer additions here.
So if you could give some color in the security how much of the progress here is on your existing install base versus adding new customers that would be great.
And then for you Robyn just as we think about that next year can you help us think about how to think about March quarter’s [indiscernible] and also pro forma tax rate for 2016.
Thanks.
Sure.
Let me start.
First on the enterprise.
I am certainly pleased with the performance.
Three reason cloud cloud and cloud are essentially why we’re seeing this success that we are seeing in the enterprise.
There’s been a lot of focus on targeting enterprises and service providers that are building out cloud architectures and the product portfolio that go to market focus the support infrastructure we have in place is all geared towards tapping into that segment.
And it is a growing segment.
At the end of the day while switching for example is a huge total addressable market the cloud element of it is the part that’s in fact growing and we want to tap into that and we have been able to tap into that.
It has been also just a big focus for me personally as part of the strategic initiative that I’ve laid out this year from the standpoint of partnerships.
Creating the partnerships and the commercial engine that we need to tap into the overall enterprise opportunity specifically as it relates to the cloud.
In security it really is a combination in fact there has been a few notable wins in the last couple of quarters that are net new.
Having said that I think there are also customers that have traditionally liked the SRX especially the high-end SRX and the branch SRX that we are tapping into that need to modernize their infrastructure and we’re tapping into that as well.
Again we are not calling mission accomplished yet in security.
There is a lot more work to do and there might be a couple of gyrations here and there as we get to overall long-term growth which happens next year.
And I think the other area on the enterprise that’s also we’re focusing on the channel as well.
Using a lot of the enterprise wins that we’ve been developing ourselves in terms of both the cloud area that Rami mentioned as well as in the security side to reinvigorate the channel and put design wins and that type of thing with them so that we can enable the channel to replicate them.
Ittai you asked two questions.
One to me one was on the tax rate what was the other question? How should we think about seasonality heading into the March quarter? Okay.
So let me talk about seasonality.
At this point it’s obviously early.
We’ll give you more color next quarter’s call but we’re not anticipating anything outside of the normal seasonality that we would see between Q4 and Q1.
So typically we see a reduction somewhere between 7% and 10% that type of thing.
So we’re not expecting at this point anything different to that.
We’ll give you an update on that on the next call.
In terms of the tax rate there was a lot of excitement in the tax rate commentary this quarter which is not usual.
So on the pro forma GAAP tax rate we will expect a slightly reduced rate.
Obviously the R&amp;D tax credit is not being renewed has had an increase in our tax rate overall for the year.
If that gets renewed that can have close to 2% tax rate adjustment.
So at this point we wouldn’t see a significantly different tax rate for next year except for the addition of the R&amp;D tax credit.
The next question is from Vijay Bhagavath of Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
I took out coverage of group from Brian so looking forward to working with you and your team.
My question is really on the sustainability and visibility of the order flow in cloud and cable.
Honestly I would like to ask a question in terms of that segment has been doing well for you cloud and cable providers you also mentioned SaaS etcetera.
So are these one-offs kind of a near-term order flow do you see sustainability from a use case point of view that this could kind of extend over a multiple quarters and then the a quick follow-on to that would be on the service provider routing side.
You had the routing business is this is expectations in Q3 is flattish.
[Indiscernible] so give us kind of your view of the order commentary there in routing heading into Q4 and into over the next few quarters.
Thanks.
Let me start and I’ll see if Robyn has anything to add.
Cloud and cable I think those verticals have had lumpiness historically and I’m not let’s say concerned about the relative weakness that we had sequentially in cloud in Q3.
If you look at the year-over-year it’s actually quite healthy growth.
Very healthy growth in fact.
When I look at the fundamentals of cloud the need to build efficient wide-area networks to connect the data centers together to connect the data centers to the consumers of cloud services to peer endpoint is all absolutely there and I don’t anticipate that changing so long-term trajectory for this vertical the cost vertical I believe is actually healthy and the products that we’re building with the specific capabilities for this vertical the capabilities in terms of visibility and manageability controllability are well understood by Juniper and we’re developing our products with the intent of capturing the cloud opportunity in the future.
Cable as well can be lumpy it has been lumpy historically.
I think there is consolidation that’s happening in the cable industry that will result in some short-term uncertainty if you will but the long-term prospects for us in cable I think are quite good.
I see routing all up I think as I mentioned I feel actually quite good about where we are with respect to routing.
Bookings were strong I think the sequential softness in Q3 in North America specifically had to do with timing of projects a difficult compare relative to Q2 with the revenue recognition event that we had in Q2 that we talked to you about.
Visibility is good and the roadmap is excellent.
Thank you so much.
Thank you Vijay and I want to thank each of you for your great questions and your interest in Juniper Networks.
We look forward to speaking with you next quarter.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today’s tele-conference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Greetings and welcome to the Juniper Networks Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
Now I'd hand over the conference over to Ms.
Kathleen Nemeth Investor Relations for Juniper Networks.
Thank you Ms.
Nemeth.
You may now begin.
Thank you Operator.
Good afternoon and welcome to our fourth quarter and fiscal year 2015 conference call.
Joining me today are Rami Rahim Chief Executive Officer; and Robyn Denholm Chief Financial and Operations Officer; and Ken Miller Senior Vice President of Finance.
Today’s call contains forward-looking statements including statements concerning Juniper’s business economic and market outlook strategy future financial condition and operating results capital return program and overall future prospects.
Actual results might differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.
Additional information that could cause actual results to materially differ from those in these forward-looking statements are listed in our most recent 10-Q the press release furnished with our 8-K filed today and in other documents that we filed with the SEC from time to time.
All statements made during this call are made only as of today.
Juniper undertakes no obligation to update the information in this conference call in the event facts or circumstances change after the date of the call.
Our discussion of the financial results today will include non-GAAP financial results.
Full GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation information can be found on the Investor Relations section of our website.
For important commentary on why our management team considers non-GAAP information a useful view of the company’s financial results please consult the press release furnished with our 8-K filed with the SEC today.
Now I’ll hand the call over to Rami.
Thanks Kathleen and welcome everyone.
January is a time to review our key accomplishments of the prior year and set expectations for the year ahead.
2015 was an inflection point year for the industry and for Juniper as well.
Traditional networking boundaries are changing and as a challenger in this industry we here to shape it and lead it.
Throughout last year I committed to focusing on innovation operational excellence cost discipline and our targeted growth initiatives.
I am pleased to report that in 2015 our total revenue grew 7% year-over-year excluding Junos Pulse driven by growth across all verticals geographies and technologies.
Product and service revenue were up across routing switching and security.
Service provider and enterprise revenue was up by 7% and 8% respectively.
We improved our operating margin and delivered our third consecutive year of double-digit non-GAAP EPS growth.
So I'm proud of what we've achieved but there is still more to do to continue on our path of operational excellence innovation and growth.
We are leaving in disruptive times and we are witnessing some megatrends unfold.
The competitive landscape is evolving; new architectural approaches like SDN are becoming real.
Business models are changing with software desegregation and white box switching.
The future of security is evolving and everything is shifting to the cloud.
What does this all mean for Juniper? We intend to be the most trusted technology provider helping our customers to solve their most pressing networking problems.
We see incredible opportunities ahead and we intend to capture it.
Today there are about 700 million broadband users worldwide and an estimated 940 million by the end of 2018.
This is driving an insatiable need for network capacity.
To illustrate this point Netflix recently announced it is now serving a 192 countries up from 60 plus.
Imagine satisfying this increasing worldwide demand for rapid low latency and high volume communication of information.
They will require new high performance highly automated networking solutions and cutting edge technologies.
In 2016 we planned to continue to capture inflection points in the industry that will help to accelerate our existing strategy.
We planned to do so through continued execution and product innovation as well as partnerships and tuck-in acquisitions when appropriate that complement our organic R&amp;D strategy.
For example we see new growth opportunities in the data center interconnect and metro Ethernet markets.
Traffic growth in the networks that form this market is forcing our customers to consider new architectural approaches to keeping up with traffic demand cost effectively.
Yesterday we announced our intent to acquire optical equipment provider BTI Systems.
By combining Juniper's data center switching and IP routing platforms with BTI's cloud and metro networking systems and software we expect to transform packet optical networking and provide our customers with open software driven solutions that are automated highly programmable cost efficient and offer tremendous service agility.
It is now more evident than ever that everything is shifting to the cloud.
Enterprise IT is moving apps and data to public and hybrid cloud.
Service providers are building out a distributed telco cloud to drive down operational cost increase agility and better serve their customer.
Cloud is often required new and network infrastructure build and upgrade across wide area networks datacenters and branch offices.
And our customers recognize the value of Juniper's networking innovations to help in their transition to cloud architectures.
Our intent is to lead in the area of software solutions that simplify the operations of network and to allow our customers across our key vertical to deliver real valuable over those networks.
We anticipate that our increased focus on software business models will result in an increase in software revenue as a percentage of total revenue overtime.
I remain optimistic about our entire product line and across routing switching security and automation software has spent five solution domain datacenter core EDGE Campus and branch and access and navigation.
We shipped several new products last quarter including the ATX-500 hardened access switch the GFX 5200 top-of-rack data center switch the SRX 1500 security platform for the campus and branch domain and the newest generation of MX Line Card the MPC7.
These and other new products are getting good early reception from customers and we expect them to ramp in revenue this year.
Now I know cyber security is top of buying for organizations of all sizes.
Investing in security is an imperative for our customers and Juniper strategy.
We believe the future of security is intimately tied to the network and we are investing and innovating in our domain solutions with that direction in mind.
We are also committed to maintaining the integrity security and insurance of all of our products at Juniper.
Again this backdrop that I've laid out and given our assumptions that the global economy will be volatile and customer investments maybe lumpy my team and I had set out the following three operating principles for managing the business in 2016.
First we intend to take a prudent stand while going after revenue growth opportunities that we see within our target markets.
Second we will remain diligent in managing our operating expenses and intend to expand non-GAAP operating margins for fiscal year 2016 we reiterate our long-term target of operating margins of 25% on a sustainable annualized basis.
Third we intend to maintain a healthy balance sheet and continue working towards an optimized capital structure.
We will seek to fulfill our commitments to continuous process improvement in execution and I look forward to share and yet more accomplishments that provide value to our customers and return for our shareholders.
I want to thank our employees for their continuous pursuit of excellence and their sincere commitment to helping our customers every day.
Before I conclude I would like to say a few words on the leadership transition that we announced earlier today Robyn joined Juniper as our CFO over 8.5 years ago and has since led the finance and operations organization through a period of extensive change and frankly significant accomplishments.
I’ve always been impressed with Robyn’s willingness to put customers first and bring her great energy and enthusiasm to some of the most challenging times our company has faced.
Robyn has developed in outstanding finance IT and operations organization and has still a strong operational and financial discipline in the company complementing and strengthening our heritage of innovation.
Robyn I thank you for being a great business partner not only with me but the entire Juniper senior leadership team and the board over the last 8.5 years.
And thank you for stepping down in the thoughtful way you have with the great CFO successor to take over after filing the 10-K in late February and staying on until the summer to ensure a smooth transition.
And you have been in Juniper since before the IPO and I know you have been in all parts of the company over the 16 plus years and know the company inside and out.
In your current role as the SVP of finance you have worked closely with Robyn and me in helping to instill the financial discipline that has resulted in our strong performance in 2015.
I also know that you appreciate where this company has been but more importantly are mindful that there is still more work to do to really achieve our full potential.
We are confident that with your leadership we will continue in this new path of operational excellence and diligent and prudent financial management.
Continuing to strengthen these attributes of our culture are essential to our future successes.
Robyn thank you and Ken we look forward to your new role.
And with that I will turn the call over to Robyn for review of our full year and quarterly financial results.
Thank you Rami and good afternoon everyone.
I'm very pleased with our record fourth quarter 2015 results.
They reflect strong year-over-year and sequential revenue and earnings growth.
We saw year-over-year and sequential revenue growth in both Americas and APAC as well as solid growth with service providers across all technologies.
Specifically telecom cable and cloud providers each grew revenue more than 20% year-over-year.
In reviewing our top 10 customers for the quarter seven were telcos and three were cloud or cable providers of these customers five were located outside of the U.S.
reflecting our continued strategy to diversify our revenue across multiple vertical and geographies.
Our underlined demand metrics continued to be healthy this quarter with a products book-to-bill greater than one and ending product backlog at $517 million up 16% year-over-year.
Sequentially productive differed revenue was flat and up 7% year-over-year.
I'm especially pleased that for the quarter we delivered strong year-over-year and sequential non-GAAP operating margin an earnings per share expansion.
This reflects our continued good execution focused on revenue growth and effective management of our cost structure.
In the quarter we had cash flow from operations of $117 million lower than the previous quarter primarily due to working capital requirements.
Capital expenditures for the quarter were $55 million.
We repurchased $93 million of shares and paid $38 million in dividends.
Since the first quarter of 2014 inclusive of share repurchases and dividends we've returned approximately $3.6 billion of capital to shareholders against our commitment to return $4.1 billion by the end of 2016.
Now I'd like to discuss our annual results.
Our fiscal 2015 results were strong with year-over-year revenue increases across all vertical geographies and technologies.
As anticipated in the second half of 2015 U.S.
tier 1 telcos showed an improvement compared to the first half of 2015 as well as the second half of 2014.
In reviewing our top 10 customers for the year 5 were Telco 3 of which were outside of the U.S.
and 5 were cloud or cable providers.
For the year we expanded operating margins significantly by 3 points and grew diluted earnings per share by 40% on a non GAAP basis which reflects our followed execution focused on revenue growth effective management of our cost structure and significant reduction in share counts.
We are pleased that we were making good progress through our annualized long-term model of 39% non-GAAP operating expense as a percentage of revenue.
And towards our non-GAAP operating margin target of 25%.
For the year we had strong cash flows from operations of $893 million primarily due to higher revenue and improved operating margins.
Capital expenditures for the year were $210 million as we focus on investments to draw a long-term productivity and support continued innovation and development of new products.
We repurchased $1.143 billion of shares and paid $156 million in dividends.
Now let’s take a look at some of the underlying assumptions behind our Q1 outlook.
Although we have good visibility into the first quarter.
The mid-term macroeconomic uncertainty and the potential customer investment lumpiness closed very conservative outlook.
We also anticipate the exchange rate of the U.S.
dollar to other currencies to remain strong which we impacted into our outlook.
You can find the data and outlooks to Q1 in the CFO commentary available on our website.
Now I'll provide an update on our capital return program.
Given that we have substantially through our $4.1 billion capital return commitment.
We wanted to give you some color on how we look at our capital return policy beyond the 2016 timeframe.
Going forward we intend to target a capital return policy of approximately 50% of annual free cash flow inclusive of share repurchases and dividend.
As a reminder in March of 2016 we have $300 million of debt maturing that we currently intend to refinance subject to market and other business conditions.
Also yesterday we announced our intent to acquire BTI Systems.
Please note that we expect the transaction to close in Q2 and we will provide more information on the financial data of the combined operations after the transaction closed.
At this point we don't expect the transaction to have material impact throughout 2016 earnings.
To summarize I'm very pleased with what we've accomplished in this year which is reflected in our results.
We are executing well against our long-term model and as we begin the year we remain focused on execution and delivering on our strategic commitments.
For the past 8 and half years I have been privilege to be the CFO of Juniper.
We have accomplished a lot over this time and I feel really good about where the company is positioned and the financial and operational disciplined that is in play.
I also believe that the company is in great hand with Rami and with Ken as we move forward.
And I would like to thank our team for their continued dedication and commitments to Juniper's success.
And now with that I'd like to open the call to questions.
Thank you.
We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions].
Our first question is from Mark Moskowitz with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Yes thank you.
Good afternoon.
A couple of quick questions here one just in your comments about trying to inject more conservatives and more prudence around the outlook.
Can you talk about relative to what you're seeing in terms of the macro? Have you seen anything what's in your customer base that is you found to be somewhat incremental or calls per calls in terms of one customer vertical staying the narrow at one product segments and that as part of the certain see a major change in the sales most of that relative to sort of prior few months.
And then I have a follow up.
Yeah sure Mark.
Thanks for the question.
I'll start and then I'll just pass it on to Robyn if she wishes to want to add anything else.
First and foremost I have to say that I feel good about the fundamentals of the business and of course the need for networking technology across all of our market verticals.
The fact of the matter is there are some very important problems to be solved in the area of networking keeping up with capacity and delivering services over those networks and so forth.
Also feel great about our execution the engagement that we have with our customers across all of our key market verticals.
I think it really comes down to the fact that 2016 has started with a lot of market volatility.
And we have to see how that plays out in terms of its effects on spending patterns and deployments with our customers really across all of our key verticals.
I think it's really important that we managed the business and we invest with that assumption in mind and that's exactly what we're doing.
Yeah and just to add to that.
I mean we did really have a great Q4 and we got good visibility.
I mentioned in my prepared remarks that the backlog was $517 million up significantly year-over-year and so as deferred revenue.
Having said that as Rami mentioned there is a lot of market volatility out the and in our experience that has from time-to-time caused some lumpiness in our deployments or order patterns.
And so it's more a buyback cautiousness in terms of what could unfold as we move forward here.
But we've been cautious with our guided for the first quarter.
Okay.
And then the second question is more longer term in nature thinking about the second half of '16 and into 2017 Juniper and your leadership have done a nice job in terms of refocusing on both security and switching and we're hearing that a lot of big customers are starting to really keep it tie and bring Juniper for in for some other piece with this.
Kind a curious if you talk about the cadence there the sales motion and are you having to hire more people one.
And then two is this more of a 2017 potential or it could be a second half of '16 in terms of meet again a boost of on those initiatives in both security and switching thank you.
Yeah thanks.
Sure Mark.
Thank you.
If you look at 2015 we said that it's really important for us to diversify our business across geos across technology areas across market verticals.
You're touching on the diversity and technology areas.
And that is very much a matter of our strategy and I'm very happy with how the team executed to that effect in the last year.
Routing all up grew 6% switching 7% security grew 5%.
And that I think is a reflection of just the execution by the engineering team the go-to-market team our marketing team.
And I feel that the opportunities there for us to continue that growth across all of the technology areas in security in particular since you highlighted it this was an area that required an extra level of focus from us.
Because as you know we started with a bit of deficit just a year ago we refocused our strategy we enhanced our product set we definitely did a lot of training and marketing to win the hearts and minds of our partners and our customers.
And while I'm not yet ready at this point to say that we are completely done because there are still a lot more execution for us to do in the area of security.
I definitely feel much better about the opportunity that we have with that business and the way that we are executing in that business than I did a year ago.
Thank you.
Okay thanks Mark.
Next question please? Thank you.
The next question is from Vijay Bhagavath of Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
Hey good afternoon hi Rami Robyn.
Quick question from me around you mentioned your guidance was conservative primarily on the uncertainty you're noting in macro order lumpiness.
You also noted weakness in US enterprise.
So my question for us is if you could give us any color on the lumpiness comments which product segment are customer set of customer that's coming from very helpful.
Let me start Vijay.
I don't think it's any it's specific to anyone technology area or customer vertical.
As I mentioned I actually feel good about the way that we're executing and about the fundamentals of the business the need for the kind of technologies how our products that we're developing and innovating in are going to addressing those requirements in 2016 all up.
I just believe that as we start 2016 and you see the incredible amount of volatility in the market across really all markets and all geos it's a good idea for us to plan and manage the business with the assumption that there could be some lumpiness.
And I don't think if they say specific to anyone particular vertical.
Yeah and just amplify what Rami said and just to remind you our enterprise business typically is down in the first quarter from the fourth quarter.
That's a normal phase and no pattern that we've see.
So obviously we expected it to be up year-on-year but quarter-on-quarter we do expect that to be down and Rami addressed that in his prepared remarks.
In terms of the Telco sector just globally we had a very strong Telco quarter in the fourth quarter as we mentioned in our prepared remarks.
And typically it does take a little bit of time to those deployments to be digested and move forward.
So we're constructive on the year I think in terms of how reviewing the FY16 year for our business.
But we're been cautious in the near term just give the volatility as Rami mentioned.
A quick follow up is on the BTI announcement.
I mean we personally think it's a strategic positive for the company getting into data center vertical in particular.
So the question for you is around how do you manage margins because optical margins as you all know more in the high mid-to-high 40s your margins at in the mid-60s.
So help us understand the margin put and takes that optical getting into your portfolio.
Thanks.
Yeah sure Vijay.
Well first I'm happy to hear that you think it' a good idea and I agree with you completely.
I wanted just to make sure everybody understands.
The goal of this acquisition is not to build a large optical business inside of the Juniper.
The goal is to capture what we believe are very important market inflection points that have to do with the convergence of packet and optical.
And this is not a new strategy this is actually strategy that I've talked to you and our customers and our partners about over several years.
We have already been developing optical interfaces colored interfaces on our routers.
And we think that there are certain market segments data center interconnect in particular metro that are going to need to move to this architectural approach sooner rather than later.
And so this acquisition when it closes in the Q2 timeframe is essentially a way for us to accelerate our innovation in this area by getting key building blocks and of course the talent that will help us to do it.
So that's why as Robyn mentioned earlier we don’t think it’s going to have a material impact on our 2016 financials.
Thank you.
Thanks Vijay.
Next question operator? And the next question is from Paul Silverstein of Cowen &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Rami and Robyn.
I hate to ask you but just a clarification of the last two responses in the question a little clarification I appreciate and first of all we appreciate the prudence given the macro backdrop but I just want to make sure I understand when you talk about being prudent in the lumpiness one month in I recognize it's not very long it generally it’s always a late month for the first quarter but have you actually seen things that cause you concern as opposed to reading a lots of journal in CNN or listening to all the other companies had announced? And then my question will be on margins you had really strong services gross margin number relative to what you’ve done over the last year to in product gross margin was somewhere between the real question going forward what should we expect is the 63 plus you did in service is that in your norm were there extraordinary things in the quarter that accounted for this strength and some more question on products.
So Paul thanks for the questions.
Let me touch on the guidance and the outlook for Q1 first so as we said if I go back 90 days ago what I said on the earnings call is that we expected Q1 to be 7% to 10% down and what we just announced in terms of the guidance at the midpoint is 11% down so it's modestly down from what we were expecting before and that’s us being cautious and prudent.
We’re not seeing any wholesale signs as any weaknesses Rami mentioned before having said that it is early in the quarter and it's just our experience that where there are headlines we’re talking about capital purchases many of my piece around the world will start tighten things unless macro environment changes and so that’s why we’re being cautious and prudent it is more experienced than actually what we’re seeing.
So on the margin side I'm very pleased with the gross margin that we posted for Q4 it’s up a couple of ticks’ year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter.
It is strong in terms of both the product and the services margin.
The services came and the business around services is doing very well within the company the team continues to work on the cost structure.
They continue to take cost out of that business and productivity increase.
At the same time it’s improving our customer satisfaction score so I'm very pleased with that.
We move to the first quarter guidance on the gross margin we also typically see a quarter-over-quarter sequential decline in gross margins again it’s up year-over-year from Q1 of last year and that’s primarily the result of the volume in the Q1 period of time from products so this is relatively consistent quarter-over-quarter in terms of the gross margin area.
Sometimes we do get some fluctuation in that depending on deployments from product because of PS revenue as part of services but we’re very pleased with our services gross margin.
Robyn I wish you well.
Thank you.
Thanks Paul.
Next question please.
Thank you.
The next question is from Pierre Ferragu of Sanford Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thank you for taking my question.
So maybe on the outlook you’ve pulled together and the comments you made about uncertainty do you have like a differentiated view when we think about your plans so did you have more or less the ability for service providers vertical plans enterprise and so how does that look like from a regional standpoint so we see very clearly your very good performance today is mostly driven by the U.S.
Are you concerned about a slowdown a domestic slowdown as well or is still most of the uncertainty in international market? And then maybe along with the same line one last question what’s your view on the data center spending so we've seen a few data points recently potentially showing the data center spending could be slowing is that something you see something you anticipate? Thanks a lot.
Yes Pierre so let me start first as far as the outlook really I think Robyn covered it well.
There is nothing specific to anyone particular vertical or even geography.
The macro volatility we're seeing is really widespread and it touches pretty much all of our customers across verticals and different geos as well.
On the second question that you are talking about with respect to data center I still see that as a tremendous opportunity for us.
We are....
if you look at our switching market share although it's actually nudging up were still relatively small and for that reason the opportunity for us to penetrate into the data center with switching products data center interconnects with our MX product line as well as some of the packet optical architectures that we are talking about and data center is in fact the area where we are strongest today from a security stand point.
Finally where we are really seeing some good momentum is with Contrail and build out of cloud for Telecom operator and large enterprises.
The Contrail win rate that we are observing right now with six additional wins in the Q4 time frame alone is really healthy and we definitely see a pulling other products along with it.
So macro uncertainty aside I still view data center and in particular the move to hybrid cloud environment as a tremendous opportunity for Juniper.
Excellent.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Simona Jankowski of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hi thank you very much.
If we look across the networking landscape there are a few significant upgrades that seem to be kicking in this year.
Couple of the carriers are moving their metro networks to 100 gig cloud providers are moving to 25 and 50 gig in their data centers.
You see enterprise data centers moving to 40 gig and then campus is moving to multi gigabyte.
Of these four opportunities or any others you may want to add which ones are you involved in and which ones do you think are going to be meaningful growth driver for you this year? Yeah.
Thanks Simona.
I'd say the biggest areas of focus and where our competitive differentiation is going to be greatest as well as where our go to market attention is also the highest is in the data center opportunity.
So you mentioned correctly.
So they moved to 25 and 50 gig we just introduced in the Q4 time frame the key effect 5 2000 in fact that's the first switch that we offer with a completely dis aggregated operating system to truly go after that opportunity.
That compliments the spine switches that are now in the hands of our customer at least the early versions in the hands of our customer whiles we expect revenue to start ramping this year.
So anything to do with data center just as a matter of strategy and focus I'm optimistic about.
Metro 100 gigs the MX is the sweet spot product now for these 100 gig deployments and I do expect to be very much relevant if you will for those kinds of opportunity.
Campus has been a little bit less of a focus relative to the data center.
But that's only because of the timing of the product if you will.
We have a new architecture that we introduced for the campus that we call fusion architecture and that architecture really comes to provision and around the middle of this year and for large campus environments I think that makes us very very competitive.
Last on the metro opportunity.
We did mention that we introduced the latest versions of our MX line cards in the Q4 time frame.
This is the MPC7 with a very dense industry leading 100 gig capacity which is perfectly time to capture the metro opportunities that you are mentioning.
Great thank you.
Thanks Simona.
Next question please? Thank you.
The next question is from Jess Lubert of Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
Thanks for taking my question.
First for Rami I was hoping you could touch on some of the factors driving the strength in the routing business which posted a second consecutive quarter double-digit growth.
So any insights you can provide as to where you believe we are in the customer routing cycle to what degree you think the new PTX and MX line cards can continue to sustain helping growth in that business through 2016 that would be helpful.
And then Robyn I was hoping you could perhaps touch upon to what degree you expect currency to impact the outlook and perhaps some of the exchange rate assumptions that are embedded in the forecast.
Thanks.
Okay let me start with routing.
Thanks for the question and then I'll pass it over to Robyn.
In routing over the last few quarters we've been taking market share and I think that's because of the strength of our product portfolio and the engagement that we're having with our service provider and enterprise customers around the world.
Last quarter was a great quarter for the MX and the PTX this quarter is another fantastic quarter for the MX.
So there are really two routing product lines that are humming right now in terms of the business momentum that we are building.
Both have fantastic roadmaps and both are hitting the market in terms of both the software capabilities the services and the density and the performance that they offer to our customers.
In Q4 in particular we saw broad based strengths in service providers this is not a common specific to just the large tier 1 this is true for service providers around the world that are building out their metro their EDGE and their cores with the MX and the PTX.
And I'm also very pleased with the performance that we saw in the cable in the Q4 timeframe where cable operators are really just trying to keep ahead of the growth in video traffic.
They're doing this with the migration to DOCSIS 3.0 3.1 and of course the densities that we offer with the MX and the PTX to help them to do that is really turning into a competitive advantage for us.
Rami based on the availability of the new products is there any reason we shouldn't expect some of the share gains we've seen in the last few quarters to continue? Share will always fluctuate on a quarter-by-quarter basis but if I look at the win rates as well as the opportunities that are ahead of us and the product roadmap.
And you have to keep in mind that we have actually managed to achieve the strength that we achieved in 2015 largely without the new products ramping up.
This year I think we have the benefit of the new products ramping up which I think can help us in sustaining the market share momentum.
Robyn? So just in terms of currency Jess.
As I've mentioned before we predominantly invoice the U.S.
dollars.
Having said that obviously with the strength of the U.S.
dollar versus other currency we see some and I mentioned it in my prepared remarks some modest pricing impact in those areas which we have by and large offset with cost reductions.
So our assumptions are that the currency impact remains the consistent high levels of the U.S.
dollar as we move forward here.
Thanks guys.
Thanks Jess.
Next question Mannie? Thank you.
The next question is from Sanjiv Wadhwani of Stifel.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Rami let me just wish you good luck on your next venture.
Rami broad level question for you within the context of a volatile macro.
I was wondering if you could comment on how you see sort of that you're shaping up.
I know you guys have talked about the 3% to 6% especially given the various new products that are starting to gain traction.
So just curious to get a comment of how do you think that year might shape up thanks.
Well first thanks for the question Sanjiv.
We're still sticking to our long-term outlook which includes '14 '15 and '16 of the 3% to 6% revenue range.
And I think we will make progress towards if I look at 2016 all up.
I do believe that we will make progress towards that goal.
And that’s true from a revenue standpoint in terms of 3% to 6% but also through from an operating margin standpoint where we expect to achieve our long-term goal of 25% all up full year annualized basis.
And Rami made '15 '16 '17 we announced it in '14.
Thank you for the correction Robyn.
You're absolutely right.
Just and quick follow-up as it relates to new products I mean are you expecting material sort of contribution this year or do you think this sort of ramps up as a year progresses and maybe in 2017 you'll start seeing more of the material contribution.
It's both because I think it ramps up but it ramps up early this year.
So I do think it will have a significant contribution to 2016 across switching and routing in particular but also security.
Yeah and just to underscore that point and Rami mentioned that in his prepared remarks the 2015 there was very little revenue from the new products.
So it just it underscores the strength of the results in '15.
And we are expecting those products to ramp as we move through '16.
Got it.
Thank you.
Thanks Sanjiv.
Next question? Thank you.
The next question is from Jim Suva of Citi.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and congratulations.
One clarification question then I have a follow up so first of all the clarification question.
You mentioned the currency and we know you priced mostly in US dollars and you mentioned some changes which will be offset by your cost which you've been able to do.
Can you give us a little bit more detail about what you meant by those changes was that be as you lowered your price in certain geographies or you did some more rebating or what's do you mean by those changes need to be offset by cost that's a clarification.
And then my main question is a lot of the other questions were asked on the other products but on switching.
Can you give us a little bit of details on switching kind a maybe what's happening now versus say six months ago and kind of your outlook for switching whether be trends or product cycles thank you very much and again congratulations.
Thank you.
So in terms of the pricing commentary or the currency commentary.
Obviously the U.S.
dollar has been strong for quite some time now.
So we have actually seen some impacts from our pricing in on international operations outside of the US which we have largely offset by the cost reductions that we've had throughout the year.
So you can see the gross margin is very healthy on that product areas it's very consistent year-over-year it's also very consistent from a sequential basis.
So we obviously compete in the business and we largely compete on the differentiation of our products.
But there are obviously areas where we continue to work on the cost structure and reduce our cost so that we preserve the competitiveness of our overall product ranges well.
Yeah and Jim on the switching question fiscal year 2015 we saw a 7% year-over-year increase in switching that is largely without the benefit of the new spine switches which we expect to ramp in this year.
So I am bullish on our ability to grow this part of our business.
I think if you look at where the opportunity lies; it's mostly in the datacenter and the cloud.
This is true for all of our vertical market segments whether if that our telecom operators that are building out their next generation distributed Telco cloud architectures transforming their network locations to scale out data centers from which they are delivering value to their customers certainly through for enterprises that are moving to a hybrid cloud architecture.
I think we can benefit from that.
And then again I will put in that plug for - because I think that's really making us very relevant to the next generation architectures where there is a high degree of automation that is being applied how switching is deployed.
And we're seeing that is a very strategic and sticky part of the sales motion for our customers across all vertical markets.
Yeah and just to underscore that point we grew switching 7% year-over-year without very much benefit at all from the new product.
So I think to Rami's point we're very pleased with the switching performance that also plays with how we out moving forward from a competitive point of view with the switching line up that we have.
Thank you and congratulations.
Thanks Jim.
Next question please? Thank you.
The next question is from Rod Hall of JP Morgan.
Please go ahead.
Yeah hi.
Thanks.
This is Ashwin [ph] on behalf of Rod.
Hey good.
Thank you.
Okay actually question is on Europe it looks like Europe was down on a year-over-year basis in Q4.
I'm wondering if you're expecting that region to return to growth anytime soon given that fiscal your Q1 guidance implies growth.
Yeah sure Ashwin.
So Europe actually you're right from a revenue standpoint it took a little bit of a step back but actually from a booking standpoint Europe was quite strong year-over-year and sequentially.
So I'm not concerned.
I think in Europe the area where we're seeing the greatest success is with the telecom operators.
The win rate the level of engagement on some of the next generation of architectures in not just routing but in switching and security and Contrail is very good and so for that reason again for 2016 as a whole I actually think Europe is going to be good.
There has been a very deliberate focus inside of Juniper to make sure that there is the good diversity across geographies and we’re taking that seriously I'm very pleased with how the team is executing.
Okay.
Thanks for the color.
Just one more follow up Rami you’ve commented that you’re expecting operating margins to expand in fiscal ‘16 I wanted to understand how contingent is that on revenue growth coming through and I just wanted to understand your planning assumptions there? Yes I think we are expecting that revenue will expand this year if you think about it from the full year standpoint and with that said we’re essentially making sure that we’re investing in a way that is commensurate with that expansion in revenue.
We’re not going to as I have said many times in the past invest ahead of that growth.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Next question please.
Thank you the next question is from George Nadar [ph] of Jeffries.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks a lot guys.
I guess more of a housekeeping question I was curious about what your emerging markets exposure is right now I’ve seem to have lost track of that I'm specifically just in countries like Brazil Russia China places where the currencies have really devalued or economy slowdowns where is that now and how do you feel about those areas going forward? Thanks.
Thanks George.
We don’t actually breakout our emerging markets number but what I will say is I did provide some commentary about Asia Pacific if you excluded China we’d actually be up quite significantly in terms of the quarter.
It’s in my commentary and in terms of Brazil it’s a small business for us but I can’t actually say we’re down in the quarter and that’s in the Americas result so in terms of the APAC results they would have been up I think it’s about 10% but we’ll come back to you with that number.
Got it.
Thank you.
Thanks George.
Next question please.
Thank you.
The next question is from Steve Mironovic [ph] of UBS.
Please go ahead.
Great thank you.
I was just wondering there was some news about Facebook’s open compute project getting the back in telcos like AT&amp;T Verizon Deutsche Telecom wanted to get your perspective on that and what you’re hearing when you talk to customers? Sure thanks Steve.
This is an industry where most of the innovation and the investment goes into software but much of the business model are tied to hardware I mean if you take a look at Juniper as an example 85% of all of our development resources are software resources that is where the crux or the majority of our R&amp;D investment actually lies.
I do believe that overtime business models will adjust so that’s more of the value is going to be monetized through software and I think we’re taking meaningful steps in that direction.
So in the Q4 timeframe we announced our disaggregated architecture our customers were very pleased we got a lot of kudos if you will from our customers telecom operators and enterprises mostly on the telco side that this is the right step to take.
Do I believe that there’s going to be an overnight shift in business model no I don’t I think in this industry everything is sort of unfold and multi-years but I do think that we are taking the steps necessary to make sure that in a world where wide box switching starts to become more prominent that we will be able to participate to add value and of course create shareholder value from that transition as well? Thank you.
And Robyn there was a comment in the formal remarks about moderately elevated pricing pressure have you addressed that in your comments so today are you seeing something competitively that’s different? No it’s a combination of factors but we did address it obviously the currency impacts is seen through that pricing and any other factors that are in there.
But we are offsetting that with cost reductions as you could see in the quarter from the gross margin so slightly elevated just what I said in the prepared remarks.
And just coming back to George’s question about emerging markets in terms of Asia Pacific it was about 4% full year we excluded China region we’re eventually up a little bit so you can see there has been a sustain period of time quite a reduction in that business.
Although I will say that it in the fourth quarter we actually saw it grow a little from the third quarter.
So from a China specific perspective.
Great thank you.
Next question please.
Thank you.
The next question is from Ittai Kidron of Oppenheimer.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Couple of questions.
First Rami can you get into the enterprise business and the performance in the fourth quarter.
I have to go back 10 years and I never could have found a quarter where your enterprise business took such a significant decline on a quarter-over-quarter basis.
So you can give us a little bit more color on what's going there.
That will be great and second just wanted a big picture standpoint.
Do you have any view on what capital spending will with carriers this year? How it's going to be waited second half versus first half any color on that will be great? Okay.
Let me start.
Thanks Ittai.
On the enterprise side Q3 was a very strong revenue quarter for us.
If you recall it was actually double-digit growth both quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year.
So the step back that we took in enterprise honestly I'm not too worried about it.
I think that is largely as a result of the timing of large enterprise deployment and especially government.
Government was actually very strong for us in Q3 and there was a bit more weakness in government just because various factors in the Q4 time frame.
If I think about the opportunity for us in the enterprise and our ability to capture it especially as it pertained to cloud deployment.
I actually feel very good about 2016 all of 2016.
I think that's the net of it.
Expecting some one peanut especially in the larger enterprises in government is something that is pretty normal.
Yeah and actually I'll just add to that our enterprise business for the fourth quarter was largely as we were expecting.
So not anything out of the ordinary.
The full year for enterprise was actually 8% which is a very good result for us for the full year rental price and it just speaks to the diversity again that Rami underscored through the commentary here.
If you look at our full service provider business that was up about the same sort of level 7% and enterprise was up 8%.
So within any one quarter you will see some lumpiness between the sectors and between the verticals in the market.
Just because of the deployment cycle that actually overall the diversity is working us and that it gives good gross in both areas over a full year period of time.
On the second question I think it was around sort of the capital expenditures for telecom operators in particular.
I mean we are seeing the same reports that you are seeing it's still early that in the year.
But it is at least one of the factors that we are considering as we provide our outlook.
For Telcos in particular the most important thing we need to do it is to make sure that we remain extremely relevant to the next generation architectures that they are now contemplating and will eventually deploy.
Things like cloud CBE things like deploying SDN and transforming their network locations to data center like entities.
I feel really good about the level of engagement that we are having with our telco operator to be able to capture that opportunity when it becomes real.
I think there are some real good proof points of telcos.
Even large telcos that are making significant progress in that direction.
And then finally it's important for us to continue the diversification of business.
So that we can increase the predictability of our business overtime across all vertical market segment.
Very good.
Good luck.
Thank you Ittai.
Next question please? Thank you.
The next question is from Jeff Fall [ph] of Nomura.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Thanks very much.
And Robyn I'd like to add my congratulations to you and appreciation for all your help with me over the years.
Two questions really I think first is big picture on routing you had a really nice series of quarters and they were quite good on that I contrast that a little bit to what I hear out of the larger U.S.
Telcos who have been pretty clear that NFE is an opportunity for them to reduce spending on what they call big iron in the core of the network.
So I'm wondering if you could compare and contrast that a little bit and help us I think that through and then I've got a follow up.
Thanks.
Yeah sure.
I will start with this routing question.
I think actually where if you look where you see virtualization becoming most relevant.
It's in areas of the market that are tend to be little bit less performance tend to be more around the customer premises equipment is really around the end goal of automation.
And we have developed of what I think are really competitive solutions to address that particular opportunity.
The big iron stuff - it's really around keeping up with traffic patterns with growth in traffic.
And if you look at for examples the enhancements that we are making in the PTX where we're going from a terabit per slot to 3 terabits per slot industry leadership from form standpoint.
I can tell you that is absolutely hitting the mark in terms of the kinds of technologies that are telecom operators are looking for to cost effectively address the insatiable based our traffic growth in their networks.
Jeff your follow-up? Yes thank you.
And then the second one is could you help us a little bit to understand when we can expect revenues from the QFX-10000 I think that still at one point and might have been in the first half of this year and I'm not sure if I A have that right in B if so I'm interpreting your remarks is being more of a second half 2016 story.
We well we expect the revenue ramp to start in the first half.
It will obviously be more meaningful in the second half.
But we do expect that the revenue will start in the first half.
Yeah I think it's fair to say that we expect that those revenues in the first half that right will start in the second half I think is the way we would characterize it.
Yeah okay.
Thank you to both for helping me parse through that language.
Thanks Jeff.
So we are running up to the hour.
We have time for one more question.
Certainly our final question is from Jason Muland [ph] of Robert W.
Baird.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thanks for slipping me in.
I had a couple of quick ones hopefully and thank you for giving the color on the top 10 customers.
And the question there with more success in cable and cloud is Rami as the business becoming more concentrated around key customers or is that the wrong way to look at it.
No I think it's actually getting more diverse across vertical markets cloud cable telecom operators large enterprises federal governments and so on.
And I think that's good because it's adding a greater level of predictability to the business.
I don't think we're done I mean I think that there is always going to be some lumpiness I mean our exposure to telecom operator is still quite high so there is going to be some lumpiness to the business which is why so important for us to continue in 2016 on our strategy of diversification across vertical markets across geos and also across technology areas of switching revenue security.
Okay.
And then a quick follow up.
On the comments about volatility across all markets and geos and then with security specifically ScreenOS is all but gone and you've got traction at the high end of the SRX market.
Should we expect to see more resiliency in security relative to other market just given the nature of that business.
Yeah I have said in the past that this 2015 will be the year of stabilizing security and then we would start to see modest growth in 2016.
So at the end of 2015 I think it's we can say that we exceeded our expectations last year.
Securities grew 5% full year year-to-year comparison.
And I think that's not an accident it is a result of some really great work by a lot of people to Juniper that I'm extremely proud of.
There you're going to see a rolling thunder of security enhancements that we will make across managements where we knew that we have some work to do to better penetrate the enterprise with the area of next gen firewall capabilities that are cloud offered that this product is called the sky advanced threat prevention that's in beta today that essentially starts to ship shortly in the next few months.
We just wrapped up a customer and partner events actually more of the partner events just earlier this months where we heard first hand from our partner that they are feeling much better about where we are in the security today relative to where we just a year ago.
Appreciate the color.
Thanks Rami.
Thanks Jason.
And thank you everyone for joining us today.
As always we appreciate all of your great questions and we look forward to speaking with you next quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.