Hello and welcome to the Nordstrom 2011 First Quarter Conference Call.
At the request of the Nordstrom today's conference call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] And I would now introduce Rob Campbell Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations for Nordstrom.
You may begin.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us.
Today's earning call will last approximately 45 minutes and will include about 30 minutes for your questions.
As a reminder all forward-looking statement on this call are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from the expectations and assumptions discussed due to a variety of factors that affect the company including the risks specified in the company's most recently filed forms 10-K and 10-Q.
Participating in today's call are Blake Nordstrom President of Nordstrom Inc.; and Mike Koppel Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer who will discuss the company's first quarter 2011 performance and outlook for 2011.
Joining us for the Q&amp;A are Pete Nordstrom President of Merchandising; Erik Nordstrom President of Stores; and Jamie Nordstrom President of Direct.
And now I will turn the call over to Blake.
Thanks Rob.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining our call today.
Yesterday we held our Annual Shareholders Meeting here at our downtown Seattle store.
We had a good meeting and appreciate those of you who were able to attend or view the webcast for this event.
On behalf of our team I'd like to share with you the progress we made in our first quarter as well as some key focus areas for the year.
Mike will give you more details about our quarter but we're off to a good start in 2011 continuing to have comparable-store increases and earnings growth.
We're encouraged by the fact that we're now at 19 straight months of comparable-store increases and that we delivered our sixth straight quarter of double-digit increases in total sales.
As a company we aspire to improve customer service.
It's our number 1 goal every year.
We believe we've made good progress in putting the customer front and center in how we apply resources and spend our time and energy supporting our sincere desire to offer a better customer experience.
Our model of staying grounded in how we plan our business allows us flexibility in how we execute our customer strategy.
We feel we've demonstrated the success of this model over the last 10 years and we continue to develop tools and systems to help us evolve with the customer.
We're encouraged by our progress and how we're moving faster to add capabilities to provide our customers with the shopping experience they're looking for.
Last November we put Wi-Fi into all our full line stores as an added convenience for our customers and to set the stage for using mobile devices in our stores.
We're pleased to share with you that in a very short time period roughly 6 months later we're now in the process of rolling out new handheld devices with mobile checkout functionality so that our people can take care of customers no matter where they are in the store.
We should have roughly 5 000 to 6 000 handhelds in our full line stores by the Anniversary Sale in July.
We will learn from these efforts and quickly add to this functionality with plans to have significantly more of these devices in our stores by year-end.
Technology has been a critical enabler of our business particularly over the last 10 years.
We started out with the need to build the infrastructure necessary to allow us to become more efficient with our inventories and how our merchants partner with our vendors.
Over time we've continued to add various technologies to give our salespeople and customers the tools they need.
We continue to be proud of how well our teams adopt these technologies helping our people drive top and bottom line results.
We're excited about our prospects in mobile and e-commerce.
Online has been the fastest growing part of our business and there is significant potential to drive more sales and improve service in this area.
Ultimately it's up to our customers to determine how much of our growth will come from online and we're taking steps to respond.
One example is that we're offering a mobile-optimized version of our site in June to make it easier for customers to shop from their smartphones.
We're also excited about our recent acquisition of HauteLook and believe our partnership will enable us to better react to how customers want to shop for fashion online.
HauteLook continues to innovate and grow as a leader in the private-sale sector and we look forward to their contribution as we work together to further enhance our mobile and e-commerce offering.
The pace of change has quickened and customers have a broader definition of service.
Our multi-channel foundation puts us in a strong position to grow the business by moving faster and being more nimble.
Our customers have responded favorably to our multi-channel efforts these past few years leading to great results.
Looking ahead we believe we have an opportunity to evolve beyond multi-channel.
Our efforts are becoming less about behind-the-scenes enterprise projects and more about customer-facing functionality providing a compelling online experience and putting new technology in front of our customers as quickly as possible.
Ultimately we want to be our customers' store of choice.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Mike.
Thanks Blake.
We're pleased with our first quarter performance which was at the high end of our internal plans.
We continue to make progress in the execution of our existing business while moving forward with growth opportunities.
I'm now going to review the financial results for the quarter including comments on the financial impact of our recently closed HauteLook acquisition and on our updated guidance for the year.
For the first quarter our earnings per diluted share were $0.65 and earnings before interest and income taxes or EBIT totaled $272 million.
This is an increase of 25% in diluted earnings per share and an increase of 24% in EBIT compared with the same period in 2010.
This year's first quarter results include charges totaling $0.04 per diluted share related to the HauteLook acquisition in late March.
Same-store sales in the first quarter were up 6.5%.
Nordstrom same-store sales which include results from our Full Line and Direct businesses were up 7.8% with the South and Midwest as our top-performing regions.
Designer Jewelry and Men's Apparel were our top-performing merchandise categories.
Our Direct channel continued to show strong sales growth outpacing our overall Nordstrom increase.
Nordstrom Rack same-store sales were up 1.2% in the first quarter.
HauteLook sales performed ahead of our plans.
First quarter gross profit as a percent of net sales increased approximately 30 basis points to 37.8%.
The improvement was driven from our ability to leverage buying and occupancy costs.
Sales productivity continues to improve with regular price selling as a percentage of our total business returning to prerecession levels.
As a result our total sales per square foot improved 7.3% on an inventory per square foot increase of 3.7%.
Overall our inventory turn improved 130 basis points to 5.4 over the same period last year.
Retail SG&amp;A increased $78 million compared to last year's first quarter.
Excluding HauteLook operating expenses and the related purchase accounting charges retail SG&amp;A increased $61 million compared to last year.
The majority of this increase was due to higher sales volume and new stores.
Our first quarter EBIT flow-through excluding HauteLook was within our targeted range of 25% to 35%.
While our incremental EBIT flow-through in future quarters could fluctuate due to investments in support of growth year-over-year adjustments and the timing of expense or other factors we remain focused on striking an appropriate balance between near-term performance and positioning ourselves to deliver long-term growth.
Now on to our Credit business which continues to demonstrate improving trends.
The delinquency rate was 3.3% at the end of the quarter an improvement of 90 basis points over last year.
Our write off rate was 7% for the quarter down 490 basis points from last year.
Our payment rate increased 325 basis points over last year resulting in lower finance charge revenue but reflecting better credit quality.
As a result of these improving trends we reduced our reserve for bad debt by $10 million to $135 million which is 6.7% of ending credit card receivables compared to 9.2% of credit card receivables last year.
Overall we're in a strong financial position.
We have $1.4 billion of cash and total liquidity of nearly $2.4 billion.
Our adjusted debt to EBITDAR of 2.1x is well within investment grade and consistent with our targeted range for this metric.
In support of our capital structure goals we repurchased 3.9 million shares at an average price of approximately $45 for a total of 176 million.
The remaining balance on our current authorization is 235 million which expires at the end of 2011.
We recently received authorization from our board for an additional 750 million in share repurchase which expires at the end of 2012.
During the quarter we closed on our previously announced acquisition of HauteLook.
We are still in the early stages of this new partnership but thus far HauteLook has been performing ahead of our plans.
We continue to see an opportunity to develop our capabilities in the e-commerce space and we'll keep you apprised of our progress.
As a result of the related purchase accounting we expect the acquisition to be diluted to our 2011 earnings by $0.20 per diluted share including $0.04 per diluted share in the first quarter.
This total includes an estimated provision for earn-out payments amortization of intangible assets and the issuance of shares.
Due to the performance-driven nature of the earn-out payments we could experience variability in that provision.
We will continue to provide the appropriate disclosure on these impacts.
Now I will discuss our updated outlook for fiscal year 2011 factoring in our Q1 performance and the impact of the HauteLook acquisition.
We expect to achieve 2011 earnings per share of between $2.80 and $2.95 with same-store sales planned between 2% to 4%.
HauteLook is $0.15 lower than the deal we shared at the end of the fourth quarter due to the estimated $0.20 impact of the HauteLook acquisition partially offset by Q1 share repurchases.
Outside of these 2 changes our view of the business for the year remains the same.
In conclusion we are pleased with our performance during the first quarter.
We remain grounded in our customer strategy which keeps a balanced focus on both execution and sustainable profitable growth.
With that I will turn the call over to Rob.
[Operator Instructions] With that we'll take the first question.
Our first question is from Deborah Weinswig from Citi.
Can you talk a little bit about or maybe give us a preview of what you're doing differently this year for the Half-Yearly Sale? Differently not much is different.
I think for us how the Half-Yearly Sale has evolved over the years is we have less clearance that we save up for that time.
So it's tended to impact some of the top line performance of the sale but in totality we look across the year it's really benefited our markdown levels and our gross margins.
So our strategy of taking timely markdowns and turning faster has really enhanced our results.
We go forward with the same plan we've had with Half-Yearly for the last several years.
Okay great.
And then my second question.
From talking to Rob each month it sounds t.b.d.
Designer and Savvy have improved can you talk about some of the drivers behind those -- the improvement that you're seeing there? What's does that tell you about the future? I think probably the most encouraging thing is Designer really across the board for us has been excellent and we picked up when you put that all together for 30% I mean all designer classifications and I think that's reflective of the customers' continued desire to buy fantastic aspirational product.
And what we've learned is that they want it in pretty much every store we do business in.
So we continue to work on adding distribution.
It's a growing part of our business and our customers love it.
So I think that's a really good sign in the Women's Apparel segment both Dresses.
Dresses continues to be really strong and then as you mentioned the t.b.d.
Department which I think is reflective that denim is strong and essentially the modern or kind of a contemporary styling part of the business has been good so we continue to build on that.
All in all when you look at how our customers have responded we are selling bridge to upper-priced products really well disproportionally well.
Our next question is from Jennifer Black from Jennifer Black and Associates.
My first question is I wondered what your finding with your test of consolidating categories in Women's and what I think you're calling your neighborhood store.
Any color would be great.
We're really just getting started on that.
It's part of an ongoing effort in everything that we do in the store to make things better more relevant to customers.
And one of the things we've learned over time particularly opening up a new place where customers aren't as familiar with us is sometimes the way we layout our department isn't super intuitive for every customers.
So we've just tried to take that feedback and adjust what we do.
And so the fact that we've got 116 stores allowed us to try some things.
And we've taken I think 7 stores to date where we're laying out a little bit differently.
I think your point about neighborhood is kind of more that within the specific departments.
And it's inconclusive at this point.
I think it's encouraging for us the anecdotal feedback we're getting and there's no doubt that we'll apply those learnings as we arrange our stores going forward and merchandise our stores.
Great.
Okay.
And then my second question is can you put a product onto the website more frequently especially for the more contemporary or fashion departments? It seems like a lot of customers are on the website everyday looking for the hot item.
And it may have been on a competitors' website several weeks earlier.
And I just wanted to know how you can expedite the product Is it delivery? Is it the lag time because of photo shoots or tagging? And I didn't know if you had models on staff.
Just any color on that would be great.
Jennifer this is Jamie.
We intend to have merchandise on our website available to sell as soon as we have it as soon as the vendors is able to deliver it to us.
So we have a pretty capable team who I guess takes those pictures gets them up on the site.
We start that process weeks and sometimes months in advance and the merchandise actually being available for sale.
In the online industry you have the opportunity to sell stuff before you have it in stock available to ship.
We do that.
Most of our competitors do that.
And it's kind of on a case-by-case basis.
So we're always hoping to have them advertised on the site as soon as possible.
In most cases we're successful with that but it's something we're always working on.
Our next question is from Ed Yruma from KeyBanc.
How should we think about the remainder of the  $0.20 impact from HauteLook in terms of the timing of the impact here? I know there was some variability due to the earn-out but how do we think about that cadence going forward? Yes Ed this is Mike.
The impact will be more in the back half.
Keep in mind in the first quarter the acquisition closed sometime toward the middle end of March so the first quarter was partial.
But those costs should be primarily recognized the majority in the back half of the year.
Got you.
And I know you indicated that HauteLook was performing in excess of your expectations.
Could help quantify for us how the earn-out looks on kind of a multiyear basis?  Is the $0.05 really the bulk of the earn-out or is there a multiyear earn-out opportunity.
Yes Ed this is Mike again.
Yes it is a multiyear opportunity.
It's basically over 3 years '11 '12 and '13.
And there is some variability to that based on performance.
And so as the company performs we'll recognize the appropriate provision based on the best available information at the time.
So every quarter as we update that we'll share that with you in detail.
Our next question is from Michelle Clark from Morgan Stanley.
First question any updates on apparel elasticity and ability to raise price points? Our price points have been raising just naturally organically given the customer demand.
I think given the breadth of what our offer is pretty easy for us to adjust there much like when times were tougher the price went down some.
But they've gone back up and really above where we were even in '06  and '07 years.
So there's a mix subject there.
In terms of the inflation that really hasn't hit yet.
Although we're predicting that that could impact retails for us and have 2% 3% to 5%.
Okay.
Great.
And then a question in the first quarter if you strip out the impact from HauteLook and you just look at core retail SG&amp;A that deleveraged in the first quarter despite the 6.5% comp and I'm just trying to get further detail on expenses.
Yes Michelle this is Mike.
Actually it was a slight deleverage.
We expect to get a fair amount of leverage for the year in the retail SG&amp;A.
So it was more of a function of timing.
Keep in mind we had a lot of new stores that came on year-over-year and the volume was up.
So we expect for the year to get a fair amount of leverage excluding HauteLook from SG&amp;A.
Our next question is from Neely Tamminga from Piper Jaffray A real quick question here as you guys look ahead to the Anniversary Sale and thinking about how you guys were shipping products last year it seemed like with the online fulfillment there might have been some excessive shipping which caused some additional charges that maybe you didn't really anticipate.
Just wondering how you're better positioned for that this year how that could be an opportunity? And then just a real technical question Mike where was the share count actually had end? Or how should we think about Q2 share count? That would be helpful.
Neely this is Erik.
I'll take the Anniversary question.
It is our plan to have more of a merchandise at the location where the customer is.
Last year we had a portion of our inventory to fill store orders from online especially our presale orders.
We are adjusting that a bit.
It's never going to be exact.
We have to many SKUs to nail that one exactly but we do anticipate having the merchandise customer wants better by location this year than last year.
Neely this is Mike.
I don't have the exact number in front of me but we can get back to you subsequent to the call.
Our next question is from Lorraine Hutchinson from Bank of America.
Just wanted to follow-up on the credit SG&amp;A guidance.
It looks like you have it down $10 million to $20 million.
And given the first quarter's performance what should we expect in the back half it looks like you're expecting it to perhaps get worse than the performance that you just had? Lorraine this is Mike.
No we don't expect it to be worse.
I mean the dollars are down because our write-offs are down substantially year-over-year.
At this point we have not contemplated any more changes in the reserve.
That's something that we update on a quarterly basis.
So those numbers that you see are basically reflective of the initial plan that we put in place last quarter.
Our next question is from Adrianne Shapira from Goldman Sachs.
Two questions.
Mike as we kind of think about guidance and just step back think about outlook the $0.20 dilution it sounds as if you basically flowed through Q1's beat but that's pretty much it.
And yet you did better in the quarter on several lines sales credit but it doesn't sound like you factored any of the continued outperformance going forward keeping comps in the 2% to 4% range for example.
Maybe just walk us through your thinking.
Is that just continued conservatism? Is there anything that would prompt you to be concerned that this outperformance wouldn't continue? Sure Adrianne.
Well as we've said earlier in our comments we performed at the high-end of our plan and the range we gave at the beginning of the year reflects the high-end of the plan.
So after 1 quarter we didn't feel it was prudent or appropriate to change our internal operating plans based on just the first quarter's performance.
What we did reflect in the going-forward EPS guidance was the fact that the $0.05 impacted the share repurchase.
And certainly as the year progresses and we get more certainty over the results we'll consider any changes to the annual guidance.
But at this point we feel very comfortable with our current plans.
Okay Mike.
And then just continuing on the buyback now that you've got -- you're aggressive in Q1 and you've got $1 billion authorization does the guidance assume any further buyback activity in the year? No the guidance does not assume any more buyback activity in those numbers.
Clearly we'll update quarterly as we get the actual numbers.
Our next question is from Bob Drbul from Barclays Capital.
[Operator Instructions] The first question I have is regarding full price selling.
You said regular full price selling has returned to prerecession levels.
Do you think that it has peaked out? Or do you think that can continue to increase based on where the consumer is? Your high-end consumer is today? Well I think we're actually at historical high levels in terms of our percentage of Regular Price business.
It doesn't mean it can't get better and that's what we work towards everyday.
Our customers have clearly told us they prefer to buy new full priced merchandise from us than old discounted clearance-type merchandise.
So that's the first of all our focus and that's what we'll work on and we will continue to try to give them more of that offer.
And then on the merchandise in terms of some of the trends that are occurring right now what are the areas where you think there's additional opportunity to improve? I mean the results are very impressive as they are today but what do you think can get better as the year progresses based on where we are? Probably Men's just given the ground they have to make up from what we have lost the last few years and the size of the business for us and the momentum that we have.
We're having good results in Men's right now.
I think we should expect to see that to continue.
It's a big business for us a high margin business.
So I would say probably primarily Men's can be the biggest growth factor for us.
Our next question is from Richard Jaffe from Stifel Nicolaus Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> A couple of quick questions I assume you're planning on a loss this year from HauteLook and I'm wondering how you anticipate that business? Or when you anticipate it moving into the black.
Richard this is Mike.
Actually on an operating business we expect HauteLook to operate at roughly breakeven for the year.
The charges the $0.20 impact is primarily related to the purchase accounting impacts the cost of the transaction the share dilution all those items.
But from an operating basis we're looking at a breakeven.
In terms of how this business will look on a reported basis we'll have roughly the same amount of non-cash kind of purchase accounting charges in 2012 that will go down by roughly 1/3 in 2013 and then all those non-cash charges will be complete after that 3-year period.
We do expect to see the business start to show some actual reported profitably in that third year and certainly beyond that.
So that's our current point of view.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> We'll you don't break out the Direct business would you comment on its rate of change how the customer is either moving from 1 channel or adding up and doing more business on the Direct channel than in the past? This is Jamie.
Yes as Mike mentioned our online channel has continued to outpace our store channel just in terms of sales growth.
We've been focused for the last several years on creating a seamless multichannel platform between the channels.
I think the opportunity for us going forward is how do we be more competitive purely within the online channel.
And so I think that's what you're going to see us focus on.
And we believe that there's a lot of growth opportunity there.
We have ambitious plans for our online business and we'll look forward to sharing with you guys some stuff on that over the next few quarters.
Our next question is from Liz Dunn from FBR Capital Markets.
I guess my first question relates to the acquisition.
Any co-branding opportunities and did you think at all about whether or not you could build a business like this yourself? Was that any part of your thought process as you went into this transaction? Yes this is Jamie.
Yes that is something that we thought about.
We have been looking at the Flash Sale business for quite a while and had done a lot of work studying it.
And obviously looking at what it would take to do it ourselves versus partnering with somebody.
And as we got to know the folks at HauteLook more and more we felt that they'd be a great partner for us.
They also gave us some capabilities that we're afraid we just didn't have in-house.
And so that's one of the main reasons why we want to partner with them.
Co-branding yes we're down the path on a number of different marketing initiatives as well as merchandising initiatives.
Nothing to share with you today but we've got lots of ideas how we can help their brand as much as they can help our brand.
So we'll have to see how that goes.
Okay.
Great.
And then just on the buyback how aggressive are you willing to be? Are there sort of credit metrics or safety cash that we should use as sort of guard rails? Or how are we thinking about the buyback going forward Mike? Sure Liz.
Well clearly a fact that we committed to those kind of dollars that was well within our capital structure framework in terms of how we feel about our debt metrics and our cash levels.
So the next step of that is just how we execute quarter to quarter and that's based on how we feel about relative valuation.
And we preassign that to a 10b5-1 plan.
But clearly based on those amounts and the fact that that 750 is through the end of 2012 we feel like that's something we can make some progress against the next 18 months or so.
Our next question is from Dana Telsey from Telsey Advisory Group.
Can you talk a little bit about the Rack business what you're seeing in terms of productivity there and merchandise trends and pricing margin trends there versus the full line stores? Dana this is Blake.
We're really pleased with the growth coming from the Rack and total sales and the new store part of it has really exceeded our plans.
We've talked in previous quarters regarding somewhat flat comps.
This quarter was just slightly above 1%.
So it's a slight improvement.
But still we aspire to do better in that.
There's a number of initiatives taking place there and it ranges from procuring the hottest merchandise to the appropriate pricing and how we're communicating our story and our marketing in terms of customer acquisition.
In terms of productivity it's a terrific story.
These are very very productive stores.
They're over double our competitors' average.
And so this is an important part of our business.
We have a lot of customers that like it.
It's a strong employee basis for us and it's a business that's growing and one that we're committed to improving the comps as well.
In terms of the pricing Pete mentioned earlier potentially a 3% to 5% increase in the second half of the year.
We operate in the Rack from more of a close up point of view but we would expect a trickle down effect.
We really haven't seen anything yet but it's something we'll keep an eye on.
But it's important that whether it's full line or online or the Rack there's a value equation and it's particularly inherent in the Racks and we work very hard to make sure we have competitive pricing and strong quality value relationships.
Our next question is from Erika Maschmeyer from Robert W.
Baird.
I'll pile on the Rack topic.
Could you update us on the adjustments that you've made there on the merchandising and allocation side? And also recently I've noticed that you've been using promotional e-mails for the Rack more than you had been.
Could you talk a little bit about those and also how that has impacted your results at rack.com? Sure.
Erika this is Blake again.
In terms of the e-mails we predominantly had a file of names that we were using postcards regarding various events that we had throughout the year.
And there's been a focus for the last 6 months or so to enhance our efforts on the relationship we have with our customers and having their e-mail address and communicating in that fashion.
And we're really pleased with the reception from the customer so far that and the amount of names we're gathering daily and the improved communication that we're having.
And so ultimately for the whole company we're striving to improve our personalization in the various channels and means our customers want us to interface with them.
And Rack is a great area for us to test and try something.
So there's a lot of learnings going on and we hope throughout this year to share more with you but we're kind of on the early stages of that.
You had another question there I'm sorry within Rack.
It was e-mail...
I guess I had a couple of sneaky ones.
Also merchandising and allocation improvements on rack.com.
On the merchandising allocation our focus has been on the full line stores and our Direct business and those multi-channel efforts.
There's been some terrific learnings there then to apply to the Rack  division and Teri Bariquit works closely with Pete in our merchandise support area.
Has really partnered with the Rack and sent over some of her best leaders and some of those best practices.
So there are some new nuances and some differences between the Rack and the full line stores but we're really excited about those allocation tools and what that can do to our business today and really for the next couple of years.
So again we think we're kind of on the early side of that within the Rack but definitely huge opportunities there.
From the Rack website Jamie may want to talk a little bit about it but there's certainly a demand from the customer for that product and that offering online.
And it's one of the reasons why we were interested in HauteLook and we keep a close eye on all those alternatives out there.
Given the nature of our business in the Rack the wide assortment of SKUs 1 of this and 2 of that there are some challenges in fulfilling it properly for the customer to do it on our end in an efficient profitable way.
So the demand's there but we've got some opportunities to how we execute it properly.
So we've taken some steps.
We're not fully executing our plan currently online but we're on a steep learning curve.
And clearly the customer is demanding it and we need to over time have a robust offering online.
Jamie is there anything more there that you want to add on that? No you did well.
Our next question is from Ken Stumphauzer from Sterne Agee.
Quickly I wanted to touch on average transaction value.
It kind of troughed about 6 months ago and it seemed to have accelerated in the most recent quarter.
And I was just hoping that maybe you could help us understand if it's an issue of category outperformance? If it's maybe less markdowns? If it's higher initial price points? What's driving that inflection there? This is Erik.
I think it's mainly the mix of our business.
In general our higher priced merchandise areas have been outperforming the rest of our store.
So that's driven by average price point of some.
And there is some increase in regular price selling but it's more of a performer.
And then just secondly regarding comps the 2% to 4% comp guidance.
Mike you obviously meaningfully outperformed that in the first quarter.
How do you expect for the duration the cadence of the comps to play out? Do you expect it to decelerate as the year progresses or should it be uniform? Yes.
We expect it the first of the year to be about 150 basis points higher than the back half of the year.
And our final question is from Jennifer Black from Jennifer Black &amp; Associates.
I just had a follow-up on Encore.
It seems like that has been down every month as far as I can remember for a long time and I noticed you're using plus-size models as well as targeted e-mails.
And I just wondered do you have strategies to improve the sales in-store and just what are your thoughts about it? This is Pete.
Yes Encore has been a bit of a tougher business for us and there really is no systemic reason for that to be the case.
We've got control over that and we can clearly do better.
Our effort is to try to make our offer there a little bit more modern and I think that anecdotally that seems to resonate well with customers and our people on the floor.
Part of that means we got to track some customers maybe we don;t necessarily have in the store today and we may be alienating some that expected some of the stuff we had in the past.
So there's a little bit of a transition going on there but I think to your point that the business has been challenging for a while requires that we need to do something differently because that's [ph] clothes are not going to cut it.
So we're encouraged at where we're trying to go we just don't have any results to show for it yet.
But we'll keep you posted.
This is Rob.
Thank you for joining us today on our first quarter earnings call.
As a reminder a webcast replay of this call will be available for 90 days on the Investor Relations section of nordstrom.com under webcast.
Thanks for your interest in Nordstrom.
Thank you and this does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Hello and welcome to the Nordstrom 2011 Second Quarter Conference Call.
At the request of Nordstrom today's conference call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] And I would now introduce Rob Campbell Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations for Nordstrom.
You may begin sir.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us.
Today's earnings call will last approximately 45 minutes and will include about 30 minutes for your questions.
As a reminder all forward-looking statements on this call are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from the expectations and assumptions discussed due to a variety of factors that affect the company including the risks specified in the company's most recently filed forms 10-K and 10-Q.
Participating in today's call are Blake Nordstrom President of Nordstrom Inc.; and Mike Koppel Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer who will discuss the company's second quarter 2011 performance and outlook for 2011.
Joining us for the Q&amp;A are Pete Nordstrom President of Merchandising; Erik Nordstrom President of Stores; and Jamie Nordstrom President of Direct.
And now I will turn the call over to Blake Thank you Rob.
We appreciate the opportunity to share with you our performance for the second quarter.
We had good results across the board.
It was a strong quarter for the company and continues the consistent gains we've had now for almost 2 years.
Additionally we're encouraged by the many opportunities in front of us to grow the business and better serve the customer.
Our Anniversary Sale was a significant factor in both our July and second quarter results.
We're pleased to report that this year's event was the best yet in the history of our company.
The Anniversary Sale remains unique because of our ability to do something no one else in our industry does: offer the customer preseason savings on new merchandise.
After the event everything goes back to regular price.
Over the years Anniversary has gained quite a following.
Our customers love it because they know they can get fresh new merchandise at considerable savings.
Though last year the Anniversary Sale was successful we were able to take some terrific feedback from our customers and salespeople to enhance this year's sale.
One area we focused on that we believe our customers were particularly receptive to was the Early Access event that benefits Fashion Rewards customers.
Our Fashion Rewards program is a key component of our loyalty strategy and this year's Early Access reinforced the value of being a Fashion Rewards customer and encouraged many others to join as well.
Our results for the Anniversary Sale and the quarter reflect our customers' demand for newness.
Anniversary really sets the stage for the second half of the year and our team has continually improved upon our ability to execute such a huge event.
We're in a good inventory position coming out of the Anniversary Sale.
Because of our solid planning and consistent track record of staying disciplined we're able to flow in fresh new merchandise and achieve record high inventory turns.
For 7 years now we have strived to be a more seamless multichannel retailer for our customers.
An example of this was our ability to integrate our entire inventory so that more of our merchandise is available to our customers wherever and whenever they want it.
These multichannel efforts have given us a strong foundation to build on as technology becomes an increasingly important enabler of the service experience we offer our customers.
We recognize the shopping landscape continues to change rapidly.
More and more customers value speed and convenience and these factors increasingly define our service proposition.
I mentioned during last quarter's call that we were excited about deploying approximately 6 000 mobile point-of-sale devices for our people to utilize during the Anniversary Sale.
We're learning a great deal from this technology and its ability to improve the customer service experience.
As we learn more we're in a good position to accelerate the utilization of these devices and add more if needed.
There are numerous technology initiatives that like these devices contribute to our ability to communicate and serve our customers on their terms.
One recent example is the enhanced mobile website we launched in June to make it more convenient for customers to shop with us.
Ultimately we want to be where our customers want us to be and we see some real and tangible opportunities to accelerate our online growth improve service and attract and retain more customers.
Direct is our fastest-growing part of the business which is reflective of how customers increasingly want to shop.
Additionally a significant amount of future growth will come from online.
Our strong capital position allows us to make the necessary investments to stay relevant with our customers.
We are already seeing results from these efforts and believe they will be beneficial down the road as well.
Over the coming months we'll be adding more features and functionality to better meet our customer's expectations online.
We're excited about how our e-commerce efforts can contribute to the total business and help improve the overall customer experience.
To wrap up we believe we're in a strong position for the future.
We're mindful of the economic challenges facing all of us.
However we know from previous experiences that our customers remain receptive and we're able to evolve with them and provide a compelling reason to buy something new.
We found more areas to invest in growing our business and will continue to focus on becoming their retailer of choice both online and in-store.
Now I'd like to turn things over to Mike.
Thanks Blake.
First I want to reiterate Blake's comments on the strength of our performance.
This marks the seventh straight quarter of positive same-store sales.
During the second quarter we held 3 of our 5 annual sales event consisting of the Men's and Women's Half-Yearly sales and the Anniversary Sale.
These second quarter events are significant in balancing our sales and profitability between the first and second halves of the year as opposed to the more common retail cadence that is heavily weighted toward the fourth quarter holiday season.
With continued improvement in our discipline and capabilities regarding inventory management there has been a reduction in clearance inventory.
As a result the Half-Yearly sales which are clearance events continue to drive traffic into the stores but have become a less meaningful part of our overall performance.
Our Anniversary Sale on the other hand is an opportunity for us to offer new merchandise at reduced prices.
This year's event outperformed our internal expectations as the customer continues to respond to newness in fashion.
Our ongoing efforts to focus on the customer are evident in the current financial results and leave us encouraged about the opportunities that lie ahead.
For the second quarter our earnings per diluted share were $0.80 and earnings before interest and income taxes or EBIT totaled $320 million.
This is an increase of 21% in diluted earnings per share and an increase of 18% in EBIT compared with the same period in 2010.
This year's second quarter earnings were reduced by $0.05 per diluted share due to last quarter's HauteLook acquisition.
Same-store sales in the second quarter were up 7.3%.
Nordstrom same-store sales which included results from our full-line and Direct businesses were up 7.9% with the South and Midwest as our top-performing regions.
Shoes Cosmetics and Designer were our top-performing merchandise categories.
Our Direct business outperformed both internal expectations and total company performance.
Nordstrom Rack same-store sales were up 4.8% in the second quarter with a total sales gain of 23%.
Second quarter gross profit as a percentage of net sales increased approximately 135 basis points to 36.6%.
The majority of the improvement was driven by gross margin as we continued to see strong regular price selling.
This was the case during our Anniversary Sale but also was true during the Half-Yearly clearance sales in which regular price sales outpaced clearance sales.
Continued progress improving inventory productivity enables us to maintain a fresh flow of new merchandise which is resonating with our customers.
As a result our total sales per square foot improved 8% on an inventory per square foot increase of 5%.
Overall our inventory turn improved 55 basis points to 5.5x over the same period last year.
During the quarter we did not see a material impact to gross margin due to product cost inflation.
Retail SG&amp;A increased $95 million compared to last year's second quarter.
This increase in part reflects $27 million of HauteLook operating expenses and related purchase accounting charges.
The remainder of the retail SG&amp;A increase was primarily due to variable expenses associated with higher sales and fulfillment volume new stores and timing differences and expenses related to better-than-planned performance.
Additionally there was increased technology spend associated with our focus on improving the customer experience such as the mobile POS devices that we recently placed in our full-line stores.
We are excited about our credit performance during the quarter.
As Blake stated we experienced significant growth to our Fashion Rewards program during our Anniversary Sale this year.
We're encouraged by this as it shows the strength of our rewards program in establishing and deepening relationships with our customers.
Overall this supports the importance of our brand's loyalty program and adding value to both the customer experience and company performance.
We also experienced continued improvements in our credit metrics with our second quarter delinquency rate of 2.7% representing an improvement of 75 basis points over last year.
Our write-off rate was 7.2% for the quarter down 182 basis points from last year.
Our payment rate increased 356 basis points over last year reflecting continued improvement in credit quality although lower finance charge revenue.
As a result of these improving trends we reduced our reserve for bad debt by $10 million to $125 million which is 5.6% of ending credit card receivables compared to 7.8% of credit card receivables last year.
The performance of our overall business has put us in a position of financial strength.
We ended the quarter with $1.1 billion in cash with an adjusted debt to EBITDAR of 2x which continues to outperform the peer average and is well within the range of investment grade.
In the second quarter we repurchased 6.5 million shares at an average price of approximately $45 for a total of $296 million.
We have $688 million remaining under our current authorization which expires at the end of January 2013.
As Blake mentioned we expect significant growth in our online channel.
We have an opportunity to build on our solid multichannel foundation to improve the customer experience both in our stores and online.
A few months ago we launched an enhanced mobile website to make it easier to shop with us.
We also are working to increase our online presence through Nordstrom.com and HauteLook.
These are examples of the kinds of things we will continue to invest in to improve our website capabilities and online customer experience.
At the end of the fourth quarter I shared with you our 5-year capital expenditure plan of $2.2 billion.
15% of this plan is allocated to technology investments.
Unlike investments in store expansion investments to improve e-commerce tend to impact the P&amp;L quicker than store projects because of the larger portion expensed versus capitalized.
Additionally the majority of these projects have a shorter life cycle.
As a result as you've seen in recent quarters our traditional flow-through metric will not be as predictable as it may have been historically although it remains a valuable measure internally as we monitor our performance and continue to maintain operating discipline.
The fundamentals of our business model including the importance of the customer experience top line growth operating discipline and return on invested capital or ROIC are unchanged.
In the future we expect continued top line growth while maintaining our operating discipline and producing ROIC in the mid-teens range.
Within that framework I will discuss our updated outlook for fiscal year 2011 factoring in our second quarter performance and our thoughts on the remainder of the year.
We expect to achieve 2011 earnings per share of between $2.95 and $3.10.
Full year same-store sales guidance is between 4% to 6% which incorporates our strong performance in the first half of the year but reflects moderation in the third and fourth quarters as we compared to the improving trends we experienced in the latter halves of both 2009 and 2010.
In addition our outlook includes a $0.06 benefit from the second quarter share repurchases.
Lastly included is the $0.20 EPS impact of the HauteLook transaction which is unchanged from last quarter.
Our updated SG&amp;A outlook reflects the growth in our business with higher sales translating into higher variable expense.
We also included $20 million to $30 million in additional technology and marketing expenses again to improve the online and in-store experience positioning us to capture incremental volume and share.
In conclusion our second quarter performance is a result of our success in driving sales managing inventory and expense and delivering meaningful improvements in profitably.
We are well positioned to make measurable progress and take advantage of the numerous growth opportunities in front of us.
With that I'll turn the call over to Rob.
Thank you Mike.
Before taking the first question we want to ask that each person limit himself or herself to 2 questions: one being a follow-up in order to give as many persons as possible an opportunity to ask a question.
If you have additional questions we'll ask that you return to the queue.
With that we'll take the first question.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question today is from Deborah Weinswig from Citi.
Mike if you look out with your updated guidance for same-store sales and also in terms of your gross margin outlook can you just update us in terms of as you look out for the rest of the year? Any real changes in terms of the business? And how should we think about just the gross margins as they progress throughout the year? In terms of our expectations going forward we're consistent with where we were last quarter and that is the remaining of the year is based on the plans that we established going into 2011.
It's clear to us after 2 solid years in the back half of the year in '09 and '10 that we were coming up against some higher comps and we felt that it was prudent to plan our inventory and expenses at a lower level than the trends would indicate in the first half of the year.
So there's nothing inconsistent about that approach.
In terms of margin the back half of the year as has also been our approach is we're a little bit reticent to overcommit to margins.
We tend to get margin benefit when our sales accelerate and so as a result what you see there is what we believe is the appropriate margin plan based on the sales that we planned for the back half.
Okay.
And then outside of the rollout of the handheld devices the 5 000 or 6 000 handheld devices was there anything else that was done differently for the Anniversary Sale this year that led to the great performance? Deborah this is Erik.
Yes we had a number of smaller changes but probably the biggest was around Early Access.
So that's the program for our rewards customers to pre-shop the sale event.
We in short cleaned it up a bit.
Made it easier to understand.
It's the first time it was eligible for all Nordstrom cardholders.
And as I think Blake mentioned earlier that drove a big increase in the amount of accounts that we have more than we expected.
And the main goal of doing that was to create a better customer experience and make them more understandable for the customer and convenient to shop.
And qualitatively we got terrific feedback on that.
Our next question is from Edward Yruma from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Can you talk a little bit more about higher unit costs in the back half? And then particularly as you look out to 2012 with maybe some of the early buys that you're making what is your confidence in your ability to take price? And then kind of as you look forward do you think that you'll be able to get better pricing as raw material prices come in? This is Pete.
Pricing that's an interesting subject for us.
So far our average regular price sales are up a little bit but that's mostly due to mix and it's not really due so much to inflation.
I think a lot of what we've been hearing hasn't really happened at least for us yet in terms of cost of goods flowing through to the customer.
So what to see what shakes out with that I think the fact that we've got a fair amount of breadth to our offering allows us to flex and essentially we will chase the customer demand.
Interestingly for us particularly in the second quarter and Mike mentioned it the Designer part of our business and all different classifications is really good.
So when we talk about mix that's a growing part of our business.
And so that has affected average price.
But on the whole it's pretty steady right now.
We're cost about it -- I think in terms of how those costs will manifest itself in our business I think a lot of it will happen potentially with our own products and what we call our MPG division which is roughly 12% of what we sell.
So we'll have to make some decisions if prices go up there to see what we want to do.
Great.
And do you actually see higher prices within the MPG product for the back half? Nothing material at this point.
Our next question is from Lorraine Hutchinson from Bank of America.
You've had a nice recovery in comps at Rack.
Just hoping if you could expand a little bit on what's changed or what you're seeing from that customer.
Blake could you take that please.
Sure.
Lorraine this is Blake.
We've talked about the Rack for some time and I think I want to underscore what a fluid model that is.
It is very productive in terms of sales per square foot and our inventory's very fluid returned quickly.
So there's been a number of initiatives and there really hasn't been one that stands out that's been driving it.
But we're really pleased that the team's been able to really try to address the customers' ongoing desire for a great brand and fashion at great value.
And for the last now 3 4 months the Rack's demonstrated getting back to some consistent comp store increases.
So we went about 12 to 15 months but we were flat or slightly down.
And we're pleased that it's turning around the quarter a little bit and it gives us a little more confidence going forward that they'll continue with this trend.
And then any comment on store openings for next year and perhaps a long-term target? For the Rack? Yes.
Okay I believe this year it's 17.
And Mike I don't know if we have announced next year's.
Is it roughly 13 for next year? Yes I think over the next several years we'll probably have more than 15 stores a year on average.
But I think we have announced next year around 13 and for the foreseeable future that seems appropriate.
And what we've shared with all of you is that our lead times on these stores are much different than our full-line stores.
They are 12 to 18 months out.
And so it's a pretty dynamic thing that we review pretty regularly.
But for right now it's performing well and the customer's really receptive to it.
So we're continuing at this point.
Our next question is from Michelle Clark from Morgan Stanley.
Obviously there have been concerns here about the higher-end consumer slowing as the market is sold off over the past several weeks.
Any commentary on slowdown maybe in the full-line stores? And any geographical commentary that you can share with us? No.
Michelle this is Mike.
To date no there's nothing of any -- specific that we can comment on there.
Okay great.
And then my second question Mike was on the credit card business.
Obviously nice improvement in credit trends over the past year.
Any updated thoughts on selling versus retaining the business? Well I think based on how we've been performing there and the continued loyalty program that we're building we're very wedded to owning that business.
We have no current plans to do anything other than retain it.
Our next question is from Jennifer Black from Jennifer Black &amp; Associates.
It's pretty clear that the baby boomer woman's lifestyle has changed.
And I know you're enjoying success in several departments like t.b.d.
and Collectors and BEC [ph] and Active.
And I want to know how you're addressing the other women's departments as far as adapting to the changes in her lifestyle.
That's my first question.
Jennifer this is Pete.
I think probably the major factor there is most customers almost regardless of age view themselves as modern.
And I think that's different than before where if you look 25 years ago I think something that a 25-year-old might have worn wouldn't be something a 55-year-old would wear.
So there's been some compression in terms of style and adoption curve is much quicker.
So for us to be able to allocate more modern styling across the breadth of what we do is important.
Obviously there's fit dynamics that come into play and price is a factor as well.
So it's just there's an ongoing evolution I think there just based on the way the customers have been reacting.
If you listen to them closely they clearly want to view themselves as being modern and I think we have responsibility to deliver that style for them.
So that's something that you're really focused on in departments like Point of View Narrative all of those departments.
Is that correct? Yes and really across women's.
If you look at our entire women's offer its book ended by Juniors which is BP and then the whole designer part.
Those parts of the businesses are really healthy and well defined.
It's everything else kind of the middle and it applies what we've just been talking about pretty much across the board there just making sure that we're laser focused on what the customer expects for us -- from us and how we can stay relevant in their lives.
Our next question is from Neely Tamminga from Piper Jaffray.
So okay Anniversary Sale let's unpack that a little bit if we can.
Clearly it looks like you guys had some stronger full price selling fuller price selling this year versus last year behind the gross margin.
But wondering if you could just aggregate a little bit Mike in terms of how much of this is also pickup from maybe over shipping last year because of the different change in the methodology of how people went home with their product.
That would be one thing.
And then Pete for you on a product perspective clearly Anniversary Sale is better than expected to your internal plan.
That means you saw some pickup maybe from a product category perspective or is that just broad-based transactions i.e.
are we going to see some great new trends coming out of denim outerwear footwear et cetera that can give us some hope in boding well for fall and holiday? Well Neely why don't I start? In terms of the question I think you're talking about fulfillment and fulfilling from different locations.
Certainly I think this year it helped us from more of a back-office productivity and being more efficient.
From a margin standpoint it really wasn't a major impact.
The major contributor to improved margins is the fact that we just continue to sell more at regular price.
Pete you want to? Yes.
In terms of the trends from Anniversary one of the things that's happened over the years is that we tend to do a better job of concentrating on newness literally than specifically fall look.
The idea the customer's going to buy something and stick it in their closet for 2.5 3 months.
While some customers do that it's not as many do as used to so we don't have quite as much intelligence based on the sale about what's going to happen in fall as maybe we would have 10 15 years ago when there was much more of a precursor about fall.
What I can tell you though with regards to that is specifically if you look at our Shoe division which had really excellent results they made a really big bet on boots and that paid off.
And I think that's going to bode well for what you're going to see in fall and winter for us.
And that's some good early read for us that we think we're on the right track.
I would say probably similarly with apparel and outerwear we had some good success there too.
Our next question is from Paul Swinand from Morningstar.
I just wanted to ask about the online business.
I know you've offered some details about the things you're doing.
I'm sure you're doing more advertising more weight of advertising.
But if you could just talk about how the business has changed and where you see it going.
Is it more of a customer behavior change? Is it more of the tactics that you're taking? Could you offer a little more color? Yes.
Sure Paul this is Jamie.
I think as Mike mentioned there's a lot of things that we've been working on over the last couple of years to improve our online results.
We mentioned last quarter that the improved mobile website that we rolled out I think there's a lot of things that are pretty clear drivers of online success that we're seeing out there.
Personalization's a big subject that a lot of people are working on.
And we've got some opportunities to improve how we're personalizing a customer's online experience that we're working on as well as selection.
The concept of what kind of a selection drives success online versus in-store are different.
And I think we've learned a lot over the last couple of years about how we might be able to have a selection that's a little more specific to our online store that serves customers a little better.
So those are a couple of examples of some things we're working on.
And you'll likely see those kind of things evolve over the next several quarters.
Okay.
And given that answer would it be fair to assume then that you're driving the comp more of selling to existing customers? Or are you actually attracting a greater percentage of the sales being due to new customers coming through the online channel? Well I think it's both.
Clearly the online channel is a really strong customer acquisition channel for us.
I think we said that 1/3 of all new Nordstrom customers come through our website.
And we think that over time as the online channel becomes a larger portion of overall sales it will become an even more important customer acquisition channel.
So clearly we've put a lot of focus on that and whether it's through different forms of online marketing or we're just really expanding our online presence.
We hope to acquire a lot of customers through that channel.
Our next question is from Bob Drbul from Barclays Capital.
I guess the first question is could you talk a little bit about California and the trends you're seeing in California? And my second question is just around the SG&amp;A plans for the back half of the year.
Just maybe address your ability to flex spending if sales do slow especially the investments in technology or that sort of aspect.
Bob this is Erik.
For California overall for the state we continue to see some gains there but it does lag our company average.
What's changed recently we've seen fairly decent improved trends out of Northern California and San Diego.
L.A.
and O.C.
continued to lag a bit versus our company average.
And Bob this is Mike.
In terms of the SG&amp;A just to give a little bit of context roughly half of the increase in SG&amp;A we've experienced so far this year is directly related to our growth and our performance.
And so that being said if for some reason our growth and performance slow down the back half the SG&amp;A would respond accordingly.
So the flexibility I think that we demonstrated back in '08 and '09 still exists today.
Our next question is from Barbara Wyckoff from CLSA.
Could you talk about the Anniversary Sale the length of the sale the flow through the event? And it seems as if this year you had a big surge upfront and how do you keep the sizzle going to the end of the sale when many of the bestsellers are sold out? And then just as a follow-up I'd really love some feedback on HauteLook because we hadn't really -- you haven't really talked about that.
Okay Barbara I'll take the Anniversary question.
Certainly with the early access that does shift some activity to even before the sale officially starts.
But in that first weekend is still our heaviest traffic days of our whole year.
And actually the last weekend of the sale is the next busiest couple of days of the sale.
So we get a strong surge on those last couple of days.
It's actually helped us I think serve our customers better.
We spread out some activity and customers have more choice on how they want to get product.
A lot of customers want to come in on a busy day and have that energy in the store.
A lot of customers want to avoid that.
And so by spreading out how the customer -- and being able to deliver how the customer wants to shop with us during Anniversary it frees up our best salespeople to take care of their customers that do come in the store.
So we think the length is still really good.
We certainly don't have any plans to shorten the event.
Barbara this is Mike.
Regarding HauteLook to date the business continues to operate better than as planned.
We collectively vote the management of HauteLook as well as our teams here at Nordstrom continue to work together to find ways that we can leverage each other to improve our performance and acquire new customers.
So to date we continue to be very happy and we'll continue to provide updates each quarter.
Our next question is from Dorothy Lakner from Caris &amp; Company.
Just wanted to follow up on Anniversary and in particular the rewards program.
And I wondered if you could share with us just maybe quantitatively what the magnitude it was of the increase in new customers that you saw.
And then secondly you got those mobile devices into stores.
Just wondering if there are plans or not to increase the number as you move into the holiday season.
Dorothy this is Mike.
In terms of putting some context to the success we opened well over 100 000 new accounts on a base of roughly 2.5 million active accounts.
So it was really terrific for us in terms of engaging new customers into our loyalty program.
And we saw a significant improvement in volume and average spend per customer as well as total volume in the rewards program.
So not only was it a success during that period but we also have a lot of new customers out there who now have Nordstrom notes that will likely be coming in and doing some more shopping with us.
So that's a positive.
Oh I'm sorry.
And the second part on the mobile yes when we first went out with the mobile part of our plan was to learn what we felt long term was the right mix between mobile and our traditional registers and I think we still have a little bit of journey ahead of us to figure that out.
But it's very possible that we would have more devices as time goes on.
Our next question is from Richard Jaffe from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> A follow-on question with the Online business.
Could you talk about the business by category? Where the strengths are developing and where you see greater opportunity? And then taking that to HauteLook and talking about the I guess the opportunity as you guys see it as that business evolves and what direction you see it going in? Rick this is Jamie.
In terms of online business by category it's really near our overall business in our stores for some time now.
And that's kind of a result of what our strategy has been.
Pete mentioned that boots are really strong right now.
Well they're strong online too.
So that's something that has been there for some time.
I think as I mentioned earlier we've got an opportunity to at least online we kind of expand beyond traditionally just what's been our core store offer.
Not necessarily in the different categories but within the categories where we already participate there's potential for expanded selection there that we're working on.
Your second question about HauteLook we've got as I -- I think we've talked about before we got a number of things that are in the works to both help HauteLook grow.
We believe that there's a lot of runway in front of HauteLook and we can provide some things in terms of scale and infrastructure that can open some doors for them.
But also as Mike mentioned they're a team of entrepreneurs that we really want to learn from and are learning a ton from them.
And they're having meaningful impacts on our business today.
So we hope to continue that.
And as Mike mentioned we're pretty happy and thrilled frankly with our collaboration with them so far.
And we're really encouraged about the potential for the future.
Our next question is from Erika Maschmeyer from Robert W.
Baird.
You've -- you kind of partially addressed this with Jennifer's question but I wanted to just see if you could dig in a little bit more on your efforts in the women's business.
Thoughts and things that you're testing around merchandising and marketing and kind of where you're honing in on your biggest opportunities.
This is Pete.
Well I think aside from what I mentioned in terms of style adoption and making sure we're relevant to our customers what they are looking for there's opportunities for us to improve the shopping experience and make it more intuitive and easy for them.
That's an ongoing thing.
We've invested actually quite a bit of money in visual over the last year with mannequins and just different visual elements that hopefully make it easier for the customer to navigate our women's department.
So we're definitely working on that.
So there is an environmental part that would also include department adjacency and just kind of the natural flow and rhythm of how our women's floors work.
But it's an ongoing battle for us.
The women's business maybe not dissimilarly from California as an analogy well it's done all right.
It's lagged the average for us and so we're applying a lot of energy right now on that subject and we hope to have some things that we can talk about here in coming quarters about what we're working on to improve that business.
Okay.
And then just a kind of quick follow-up on that.
Are you working with your existing vendors or looking at new vendors to create new product for the Missus category the traditional that just maybe doesn't exist right now? Yes we definitely are working with vendor partners to do that but some of that responsibility may also fall to us in our internal MPG programs.
We've got a really capable group there and if you look at where we typically compete in those categories it's with verticals.
And I think some of the evolution what's happened over the years with the different powerhouse brands in women's is that they've evolved and moved on and created voids and opportunities really for us to fill.
So I think it's a combination of doing some of that ourselves within MPG and working with vendor partners to fill that.
Our next question is from Adrianne Shapira from Goldman Sachs.
Actually I had a follow-on to Bob's earlier question about SG&amp;A.
Mike maybe help us think about -- we appreciate that you've got a variable cost structure that creates a tremendous amount of flexibility but the $20 million to $30 million on the marketing and online spend.
Could you give us a sense of the pace of investment that you would be committed to if in fact sales were to slow a little bit? Well I think in terms of investment for the things we're doing to continue to build and grow our business at this point we're committed to that and likely we will continue to move forward on that.
I mean these are things that are going to build our business for the future and if there is a short-term blip we certainly don't want to jeopardize those commitments.
So I would be surprised if those things got slowed down considerably.
Okay.
And then on the inventory side you've done a great job in terms of as you said sales per square foot up 8% inventory up only 5%.
As you think about continued share gains and top line help us think about how you're planning inventory levels.
Well we've made a commitment to ourselves internally that we would have improvements in our inventory turns every year.
And we've been managing our inventories in I would say a fairly dynamic way and that's based on how we view sales and our actual sales performance.
And so the outcome of that would be the inventory levels.
But I think you should expect from us continuous improvement.
We delivered a 6% improvement in turn this quarter.
So that still is an important focus for us.
Our next question is from Ken Stumphauzer from Sterne Agee.
First Mike as far as the purchase accounting goes how much of the $13 million from HauteLook -- how much of the $13 million drag-on EBIT from HauteLook was related to purchased accounting? The majority of it was.
The business itself from an operating standpoint is roughly breakeven.
Okay.
And then just secondly if you could talk about gross margin performance it was obviously a meaningful acceleration from the past couple of quarters both on a year-over-year basis as well as on a multiyear basis.
I'm just curious to know if you can maybe give us a little more color or granularity as to what caused that if you could potentially see a scenario where that could continue if comps kind of stayed up in the ranges they're at right now.
Well a big contribution to that this quarter was the fact I think both Blake and I mentioned it in our comments that our clearance events the actual clearance activity is becoming a smaller proportion of the total sales and we're doing more regular price and in a quarter where we have a large proponent of clearance that had a measurable impact on margin.
And so I think to expect that kind of improvement each quarter is probably unrealistic.
Our next question is from David Glick from Buckingham Research Group.
Inc.</strong> Just a follow-up on the product cost environment.
As you start to work on spring of '12 wondering doesn't sound like you've seen significant price increases for fall.
But I'm just wondering if you're seeing any moderation as you work on your early spring deliveries.
And then housekeeping item Mike if you could quantify the HauteLook sales for the quarter that'd be helpful.
Okay.
This is Pete.
Yes I think in terms of price we really have nothing to report there in terms of any kind of noticeable change.
The fluid situation will respond accordingly but I think current course and speed is about what we're expecting.
Inc.</strong> And Mike on the HauteLook contribution? Yes David on those sales we haven't disclosed those as of yet.
Thank you for joining us today for our second quarter earnings call.
As a reminder a webcast replay of this call will be available for one year on the Investor Relations section of Nordstrom.com under Webcasts.
Thanks for your interest in Nordstrom.
Bye.
Thank you and this does conclude today's conference call.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Hello and welcome to the Nordstrom 2011 Third Quarter Conference Call.
At the request of Nordstrom today's conference call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] And I would now introduce Rob Campbell Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations for Nordstrom.
You may begin sir.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us.
Today's earnings call will last approximately 45 minutes and will include about 30 minutes for your questions.
As a reminder all forward-looking statements on this call are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from the expectations and assumptions discussed due to a variety of factors that affect the company including the risks specified in the company's most recently filed forms 10-K and 10-Q.
Participating in today's call are Blake Nordstrom President of Nordstrom Inc.; and Mike Koppel Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer who will discuss the company's third quarter 2011 performance and outlook for the remainder of fiscal 2011.
Joining us for the Q&amp;A are Pete Nordstrom President of Merchandising; Erik Nordstrom President of Stores; and Jamie Nordstrom President of Direct.
And now I will turn the call over to Blake.
Thanks Rob and good afternoon everyone.
On behalf of our team I'd like to take this opportunity to share a few thoughts about the quarter and talk with you about how we're growing our business with our continued focus on the customer.
Our third quarter results were a continuation of our teams' solid performance over the first half of 2011 reflecting strength across all of our channels.
This marked the eighth straight quarter of positive same-store sales with our online increase significantly outperforming the other businesses.
We're in a position of strength given the consistent execution in our core business established multichannel foundation the new capabilities we're able to offer the customer and our strong balance sheet and cash position.
We're encouraged by the wide ranging opportunities ahead of us as we continue to invest in improving the customer experience.
Third quarter was reflective of how our customers continue to respond to newness across all categories.
Our Shoe and Accessory businesses have been terrific for some time now and were once again amongst our best performing categories for the quarter.
Our Men's business is showing strong momentum.
Finally Designer was particularly strong last quarter across all categories.
One of our unique differentiators in the marketplace is our breadth of merchandise which we know our customers value.
Designer is an important part of that equation.
While a relatively small portion of our overall business we're very pleased with the progress we've made in growing this business since making it a strategic focus 7 years ago.
Our full-line stores are performing well and have consistently delivered solid same-store sale gains.
We're pleased with the results we're seeing in the Rack which had a total sales increase of 23.6% along with a same-store sales gain of 6.8% for the quarter.
This is now 4 consecutive quarters of same-store sales increases at the Rack.
Last quarter we wrapped up our 2011 full-line store openings with 2 successful openings in Nashville and St.
Louis.
Nashville is a new market for us and it is especially gratifying to receive such a tremendous welcome from customers there.
Over the past 11 months we've opened 20 Racks and every opening we've had a good customer response.
About 3 years ago we significantly accelerated our growth plans for the Rack to increase market share and gain new customers.
We're encouraged by the results from our Rack growth and look forward to further expanding our Rack store presence to better serve customers.
For some time now we've shared with you how online remains the fastest-growing part of our business and we believe this will be a key driver of future growth as well.
We are now at a juncture where we can build upon our position of strength in our stores by adding better capabilities and making more investments in e-commerce and technology to enhance the customer experience.
We're excited about these investments because we believe they will help us take advantage of more opportunities to improve service drive sales increases and achieve profitable growth.
Over the past several quarters we've been working on a number of initiatives to increase speed and convenience.
Our hope is to become more responsive to how our customers want to shop with us whether it's free shop -- excuse me free shipping and free returns online mobile POS devices in our stores the upcoming rollout of our Nordstrom app online search or improvements to our online and mobile websites.
All of these are indicative of the types of efforts that will continue as we seek to elevate our level of service and drive e-commerce growth.
We believe our ability to offer a compelling shopping experience in all channels is what the customer values and we're optimistic about our prospects to achieve sustainable and profitable growth over the long run.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Mike.
Thanks Blake.
The progress demonstrated in our third quarter performance was broad-based across all channels and multiple merchandise categories.
As Blake mentioned it's the combination of consistent execution greater use of technology as an enabler of service strong financial position and meaningful opportunities in existing stores new stores and online that provide us with a sound platform for growth.
For the third quarter our earnings per diluted share were $0.59 and earnings before interest and income taxes or EBIT totaled $240 million.
This was an increase of 11.3% in diluted earnings per share and an increase of 8.2% in EBIT compared with the same period in 2010.
Total sales increased 14.2% while same-store sales in the third quarter were up 7.9%.
Nordstrom same-store sales which include results from our full-line and Direct businesses were up 8.5% with the South and Midwest as our top-performing regions.
Handbags Dresses and Designer across all segments were our top-performing merchandise categories.
Sales in our Direct business have increased well above 20% year-to-date and grew by more than 30% in the third quarter.
Nordstrom Rack total sales grew nearly 24% in the third quarter with same-store sales up roughly 7%.
Our market share in this channel is growing through both increased productivity in existing stores and expanding our presence in current and new markets.
Third quarter gross profit as a percentage of net sales increased approximately 40 basis points to 36.6%.
The improvement was driven by leveraging buying and occupancy costs as merchandise margin was approximately flat to last year.
During the quarter we did not see a material impact to gross profit due to product cost inflation.
Our customers' response to the launch of free shipping and free returns online was encouraging resulting in a meaningful increase in Nordstrom Direct sales.
While the absence of shipping revenue reduced our gross profit percentage by an estimated 15 basis points overall the strategy was accretive to earnings.
Our increase in total sales per square foot of 10.4% was matched by a similar increase in inventory per square foot reflecting a seasonal build up in full-line store inventory coupled with a widening selection in our online merchandise offering to better serve our online customers.
Overall our inventory turn improved 77 basis points to 5.23x as compared to the same period last year.
We continue to target increased inventory turn which includes a benefit to merchandise margin.
As a reminder in 2010 we achieved our recent historical high in merchandise margin.
We also are continuing with the accelerated expansion of Nordstrom Racks which yield slightly higher EBIT margins but lower merchandise margins than the company average.
As a result we expect the majority of any near-term gross profit improvement to come from leveraging buying and occupancy costs.
Retail SG&amp;A increased $101 million compared to last year's third quarter.
The increase in part was due to growth in both comp and new stores.
It also reflected various initiatives to grow the e-commerce business including $21 million of HauteLook-related expense and improvements in the shopping experience across all channels.
That said I'd like to emphasize that the core business in other words our operating model exclusive of these type of initiatives in the third quarter continued to deliver our historical level of incremental profit on above-planned sales.
Our full-line and Rack stores combined consistent the majority of our business and will continue in the future.
With that foundation we've shared that we anticipate our fastest-growing business in coming years will be e-commerce.
Our company's increased focus in this area not only will affect the mix of our capital investments over time but also how those investments will flow through our P&amp;L.
For example our technology and e-commerce investments typically include a higher proportion of expense relative to store investments and include assets with shorter useful lives.
As a result project costs will be reflected in our SG&amp;A more rapidly than before.
Additionally we are supplementing our e-commerce effort with resources that bring demonstrated experience and expertise in online retail.
These factors do not change our overarching goals of mid- to high-single digit total sales growth and mid-teens ROIC.
In fact they enable them reflecting in part our belief that the e-commerce investments will result in sustainable online sales growth of between 20% to 30%.
What's important to keep in mind is that our growth involves -- it will change the way in which these goals will be achieved.
Now I'll turn our performance to Credit.
Our Fashion Rewards program featured a triple rewards events in September for our Nordstrom cardholders that drove significant incremental sales compared to the same event in the prior year.
As you know our Credit business is important to us as it enables us to attract retain and deepen relationships with our customers.
Credit's key metrics delinquency write-off and payment rates continue to show favorable trends though at a moderating pace relative to preceding quarters.
Given that our delinquency rate has started to flatten and is projected to remain at roughly current levels though the end of 2011 and with lingering caution concerning the macroeconomic environment our reserve for bad debt is unchanged from last quarter at $125 million.
As always we will continue to monitor these metrics and evaluate our reserve levels accordingly.
The overall performance of our business has put us in a position of financial strength.
We ended the quarter with $1.5 billion in cash and with adjusted debt to EBITDA of 2.3x which continues to outperform the peer average and is well within the range of investment grade.
During the quarter we completed an unsecured 10-year $500 million debt transaction at a fixed interest rate of 4%.
In responding to an opportune borrowing window we gained additional long-term liquidity at an attractive rate.
We do have $500 million in securitized notes that mature in April 2012 and our recent financing gives us increased flexibility in addressing this maturity.
In the third quarter we repurchased 4.8 million shares at an average price of $45.89 for a total of $220 million.
We have 468 million remaining under our current authorization which expires at the end of January 2013.
Within that framework I will discuss our updated outlook for fiscal year 2011 factoring in our year-to-date performance.
We expect to achieve 2011 EPS of between $3.05 and $3.10.
Full year same-store sales guidance is approximately 6% which incorporates our strong year-to-date performance but reflects moderation in the fourth quarter as we compare it to the improving trends we experienced in the fourth quarter of both 2009 and 2010.
Our revised SG&amp;A guidance primarily reflects increased variable expense associated with higher sales and an additional $15 million largely from marketing initiatives across several channels and for service enhancements online.
As we approach the fourth quarter and strategically focus on future opportunities we remain confident in our ability to execute across all channels while purposefully investing in the technology and capabilities necessary for sustained profitable growth.
With that I'll turn the call over to Rob.
Thank you Mike.
Before taking the first question we want to ask that each person limit himself or herself to 2 questions and if necessary one follow-up in order to give as many persons as possible an opportunity to ask a question.
If you have additional questions we'll ask that you return to the queue.
With that we'll take the first question.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Deborah Weinswig with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Mike in terms of the expenses to improve the shopping experience are these more onetime in nature? Or how should we think about SG&amp;A retail going forward? Some of these do relate to a ramp-up in some of our capabilities and in some technology investments that we're making.
We expect that over time that those will level out and that the consummate benefits that we get from that will start to ramp up.
But at this time I would consider those a combination of some upfront investment along with some ongoing costs.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I think during the second quarter earnings call you talked about seeing an increase in terms of the number of Fashion Rewards customers and that they joined you during the Anniversary Sale.
Did you also see that customer return to you during the third quarter? Yes.
Yes we did see a very healthy redemption rate of the notes that were earned during the Anniversary Sale.
And our triple rewards event in September was extremely successful.
So the answer is yes we continue to see the growth there.
Our next question is from Dorothy Lakner from Caris &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to talk about the online business and get a little more color there.
Free shipping I think you said definitely gave you a pretty big uptick in the business.
So I wonder if you could just speak to that and talk about the growth in that business you see going forward and how it relates to your store business.
Sure Dorothy.
This is Jamie.
We launched free shipping and free returns roughly the first of September and the reasons we did that is because we have big ambitions for the growth of our online business.
And we believe that the majority of the growth of our categories over the next 10 years will be online as opposed to in-store.
And so we feel we need to be investing in the customer experience and be more competitive and be more relevant to customers online so that we can serve them better as they continue to choose to shop more and more online.
And we feel that it comes down to delivering better service and that can mean shipping things faster having a better online experience having a broader selection.
And so we're doing all those things right now.
And our online business is outpacing the rest of our business and we expect that to continue.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But overall I mean obviously you forego the revenue and shipping but you are anticipating that the benefit to the EBIT will continue going forward.
Absolutely.
We not only anticipate it; we're seeing that.
Our next question is from Neely Tamminga from Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> So Mike 2 questions on HauteLook just a reminder as to what's embedded now that you've kind of updated this guidance outlook.
What's embedded in terms of the revenues and profitability of HauteLook? And I'll go ahead and throw out my second question.
It's about Fashion Rewards.
So have you seen an increasing cadence or velocity of the loyal customer shopping in and around the points days? And am I right in thinking you guys have done an incremental 10 points day for holiday this year? In terms of HauteLook what's embedded in our overall expectations we've got the sales which is roughly $150 million to $160 million roughly a 50% to 60% increase over prior year levels in sales.
And in terms of earnings it's roughly $0.16 $0.17 of -- on a per share basis that's built into those numbers.
Regarding Fashion Rewards yes we continue to see increased activity.
In terms of the cadence of events which I think goes to your last question that event that we have in holiday we did have last year.
That's something we've done year-over-year but we have added personal event into that which is helping the velocity and it's getting more customers involved.
And it's giving customers the flexibility that they've been asking for.
Our next question is from Lorraine Hutchinson from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on HauteLook.
It looks like you took the revenue guidance down a little bit this quarter.
Any update on the performance there versus your initial expectations? No.
The initial guidance had us growing like about 60% to 70% and this has us about 50% to 60% so still a very very healthy growth.
I think just as we get closer to the fourth quarter there's a little bit more visibility there.
But we continue to be very excited about HauteLook.
Research Division</strong> And then are you still planning to run that as a separate business outside of your core Nordstrom business? Yes we are.
Our next question is from Michelle Clark from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> The first question Mike is on your full year comp outlook.
If you back into what's implied for the fourth quarter you're looking at about a positive 3 comp for 4Q.
And while I appreciate being conservative as we head in here into the fourth quarter that would imply significant deceleration on a 2-year basis.
Is there anything that you're seeing in the environment that would suggest that slowdown? No.
Michelle the basic premise for that is I think you're looking at a 2-year basis including '11 and '10.
But if you look at the 2-year basis of 2009 and 2010 the fourth quarter we're up against some pretty significant comps.
I think the combination of '09 and '10 is about 14% 15%.
So when we planned the fourth quarter we definitely looked at that as a little bit more of a headwind against us.
And as you know we like to ensure that we have our inventories properly lined up with expectations.
And that's pretty much what we've been saying all year so that hasn't changed.
Research Division</strong> And that leads me to my next question Mike on inventory.
The inventory on a per-square-foot basis looked high coming out of the quarter and I was just hoping you could reconcile for us why that is given the strong sales that you saw in the third quarter.
And then I know that you guys had mentioned October was weaker given out-of-clearance inventory was light.
Yes.
Well the inventory increase per square foot matched the sales increase per square foot coming out of the third quarter.
And there was 2 things that drove the increase in inventory.
One was the buildup of seasonal purchases particularly in the full-line stores.
And we expect as we go through the quarter that that will be dealt with accordingly.
And the other piece was an increase in our selection in the online.
And as Jamie's comments earlier mentioned one of the things we're doing to improve the service experience there is have a better selection.
And so part of that reflects the increased investment there and we're confident that that's consistent with the sales pace we're seeing.
Our next question is from Paul Lejuez with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
First on the Credit business.
It seems that this is the first quarter that marketing expenses were down.
They were down about $5 million.
Just wondering what was happening on that line item versus prior quarters.
And then second it's hard for us to get the exact new store productivity numbers just because of the timing of the stores.
So can you maybe talk about what you're seeing on the new space productivity of Rack.
It looks like maybe it slowed a bit so just want to get your thoughts there.
Sure.
Let me just get a little clarity.
I'm not quite sure I follow the question on the Credit marketing.
Paul could you...
Research Division</strong> Sure.
So there was a -- I mean marketing expenses were down $5 million I believe year-over-year.
Or maybe it was -- sorry maybe it was a bigger number than that.
One second -- why don't you answer the other one first and then I'll come back to you with the exact number.
Maybe while we're figuring that out Blake do you want to talk about the Rack? Sure.
On the Rack productivity number one we've said all along that our Racks is a highly productive model well in excess of $500 per foot which is from what we can gather informationally is over double of our peer group.
The new stores have all exceeded our expectations but are slightly below that average because on year 1 and in some cases year 2 they haven't hit maturity.
But we haven't in aggregate and even individually had new store openings that haven't met our expectations for productivity.
It's a statistic or a number we watch very closely.
And to date it's continuing to improve with the Rack.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And the original question it was actually $7 million if I look at the line within SG&amp;A on the Credit side of the business went from.
.
.
Yes.
I see what your question is.
Research Division</strong> It's the first time it's gone down this year so I was just wondering what happened versus prior quarters.
So it went from $33 million to $26 million right? Yes.
Well I think more of that has to do with some general operational investments that we made last year rather than any material change in what we're doing with the Credit business this year.
Our next question is from Barbara Wyckoff from CLSA.
Research Division</strong> What percentage of the total business does Orange County and LA comprise? And could you just kind of remind us where California totally is now of your total business? And then could you give me some thoughts on the region? What is going on there? Do you have too many stores? What's the competitive environment in the region? And then if you could just comment as a second question on Treasure &amp; Bond.
This is Erik.
I'll take the L.A./O.C.
So I think you're generally asking what's going on and do we have too many stores.
No we don't have too many stores there.
We opened 2 stores in the last 2 years and we've relocated a store at Three Oaks [ph] into a better building.
And those are all performing very well.
L.A./O.C.
though secretive kind of hit disproportionately with the housing crisis and unemployment.
So our business is light there.
It's starting to get a little better.
As far as what percentage is to our total we really don't take break that out so I'll pass on that one.
But if you step back and not look at year-over-year L.A./O.C.
continues to be one of our most productive regions.
I think it's our second highest on a sales-per-square-foot basis.
So there's still a lot of business that we do down there.
Certainly nothing that would suggest we have too many stores.
And it is starting to get better there and we're actually pretty encouraged looking forward.
And this is Pete.
I'll address the Treasure &amp; Bond question.
It's still early days for us there but it's going well.
We're learning a lot.
We've really positioned that store so that it could be completely independent of everything that happens here at Nordstrom.
So there's -- as you might imagine it's a -- there's a lot of challenges with just running a one-off store that's out there kind of on its own.
But it's all been very positive learnings for us and we're happy with how we've begun.
And we think we have a chance to build on that and have success.
I think in particular we've been happy with all the real positive editorial comments we've gotten online and magazines and what have you.
And it just continues to grow the interest in the store.
Our next question is from Charles Grom from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just on the impact from free shipping 15 basis points.
It was around for about 2/3 of the quarter.
So should we expect an uptick in that for the fourth quarter? And how do we think about that in 2012 before you cycle it next fall? Yes.
Well I think frankly I think we're still learning there.
We'll have to see if there's any more acceleration in volume because part of the impact is not just the loss of revenue but the acceleration in the demand.
So I think it's a little early to tell Charles exactly what that number is going to be but we'll share that when we learn at the end of the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a follow-up on the  -- you spoke Mike about the incremental $15 million of marketing spend in the new SG&amp;A forecast for the year.
Is that in addition to the $25 million to $30 million that you outlined on the 2Q call in August? Or is that included in the $25 million to $30 million? It's in addition.
Our next question is from Jennifer Black from Jennifer Black &amp; Associates.
I have 2 questions.
My first question is can you talk about the new Women's format? How is it doing in St.
Louis and in Nashville? Both of them look fantastic.
Yes this is Pete.
I would say that in both those cases it's performed well.
We had a chance for the benefit of all current information to rightsize our allocation to the Women's departments.
And the fact that particularly in Nashville we're new to that customer base there's been no real big preconceived idea about how it's supposed to be laid out.
So we get a much purer look at the intuitive benefits of that kind of layout and I think that that's worked out really well.
In St.
Louis where we already have a store it's worked out well there too.
So we continue to add those experiences to the other pilot stores that we're working on.
Hopefully we'll be in a position -- by the end of the year we'll be able to draw some conclusions from that and that'll enable us to create a more comprehensive go-forward strategy in Women's.
Great.
Okay and my second question has -- if you could give a little more detail on the Rack are there any changes in strategies for this holiday season? And how is the online Rack business doing? And do you do CRM for the Rack? Jennifer this is Blake.
On the Rack -- and you know Geevy Thomas well who leads that area.
He's got a lot of energy and ideas and there's a number of initiatives that the team has been working on for some time now and we're really encouraged that it's starting to be reflected in the comps.
It's been consistent from a new store point of view.
From a marketing point of view one of the beauties of the Rack is that we can use it as a test.
And so there's been a lot of things from a pilot point of view with social networking and what have you to improve our communications with our customers both our existing customers and to attract new customers.
So there's just a number of initiatives there.
But it's all in the platform of kind of the basic tenets of trying to improve the customer experience within that model for that customer.
And that's things like having the floor filled in and sized and making sure that the checkout experience -- and that's an area we've been testing some things too with handhelds.
It's efficient and meets our customers' expectations.
But it really is all grounded in product and having the best product the best brand and the best values.
And one of the benefits from opening more stores is that we've got more scale and our merchandising team is continuing to make good inroads with our key vendor partners to ensure that hopefully we're getting the first call on this merchandise.
And because of our size we're able to take the full quantity that they have.
And so that for now has really encouraged us and we'll continue on these initiatives through the fourth quarter to test and try things.
Our next question is from Erika Maschmeyer from Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> I've got a couple of follow-ups.
Could you talk a little bit about the change in customer behavior that you've seen with free shipping? Are you seeing basket sizes change or decrease the number of trans -- online transactions increase? Erica this is Jamie.
We had a lot of assumptions going in before we launched it about what we expected to see happen with conversion rates and average order size units per order all those things.
What I could tell you is that all of those metrics have performed better than we expected and so we're overall very pleased with not only the increased demand that we're getting but the way that the customers are shopping is also ahead of where we thought we'd be.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then can you talk and give a little bit more details on the marketing initiatives the incremental $15 million that you're spending kind of what are they the timing of them? Yes Erica this is Mike.
Primarily the largest of it is additional search we're doing online.
We have found search online to be very very productive.
We measure it very frequently and we have found -- and as of this point our investments haven't indicated that there's not a marginal benefit to continue to grow that.
So we continue to invest more in there and it's pushing more people to our website and purchasing more from our categories.
And then there's some also other initiatives we have going on in both the full-line and Rack stores that we'll be testing in the fourth quarter.
And hopefully those will pan out.
Our next question is from Adrianne Shapira from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Mike you talked about on the expense side if we could kind of drill down a little bit there it sounds like a combination of upfront and ongoing spends.
But if we're going to fast-forward help us think about what's the appropriate run rate in terms of expense spending and what sort of comp we should think about to lever expenses.
I think as an ongoing run rate we'll give some more visibility in February when we talk about 2012 as to what that looks like.
But I think the important -- there's 2 important messages I want to leave.
One is that we believe we're in a period where we do need to try things and we do need to accelerate the speed with which we're trying some things.
And so is there a pure window that's going to tell us when that's going to stop? It's tough to tell right now.
But clearly we've got the resources and the curiosity to continue to move forward on that.
The second thing I would say is that as we're investing capital in technology the lives of those assets and the expense associated with those investments is much larger than with the store.
In the old core the stores used to -- the amount of expense that would be  -- that would fall into that current year was much lower than the amount of the expense that's going to fall under these technology investments.
So I think from that perspective we're going to see that for a little bit.
And then I would also say that our performance for the quarter and we highlighted it in the comments is that our core execution was consistent with what we've said.
It was within the flow-through that we expect.
And now we're not reporting that separately but I think internally the way we're running the business we continue to monitor that and we continue to perform appropriately.
So hopefully these investments we make which we're confident in will play out over time and you'll appreciate these efforts that we're making right now.
Research Division</strong> Well it looks like it's driving considerable top line so it seems like it's working already.
But my question then is on the inventory front.
It seems as if your comments about expanding the selection online is that a -- should we then think you're more comfortable running with more inventory if that channel should see continued outsized growth? This is Jamie.
One of the things we're trying to do with expanded selection is be more of an authority and be more relevant to customers with the given category or brands.
For example we've got a large shoe business in our stores and we're the dominant retailer of a lot of the big brands that are well known whereas online we have a much smaller selection than a lot of our competitors out there.
And we feel to be not only competitive today but in the future we need to carry a broader assortment.
And that's what the customer is looking for.
I think the customer has been telling us over and over again that they want to see a broader selection in the stuff that they're looking for.
And so that's what this is about.
That's what we're doing and it's not a onetime thing.
I think it's going to evolve probably over the next couple years.
Adrianne I would just add one more thing.
While the inventory may increase I think you'll continue to see turns increase.
And so we're investing to grow that top line but we still strongly believe in the kind of opportunities that increased turns present to us.
Our next question is from Bob Drbul from Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Two questions that I have.
The first one is I guess when you look at your consumer especially the full-line shopper can you give us your opinions in terms of where you think that customer is today from the health of the customer and sort of the expectation into rest of this year and into next year? The second question that I have is when you look at the categories that have been your leaders from the third quarter do you think those will be the same strong categories for the fourth quarter? And I guess any thoughts around the Shoe business or the Boot business into the holiday season.
Blake do you want to take the consumer question? Sure.
I think we've been consistent in our communication with you that for some time now we've seen the customer really respond favorably to newness.
And so whether that's brands or color or fashion innovation and then there's a quality-value relationship as well.
And I think we really also see loud and clear the last 2 to 3 years in this kind of downturn in the economy.
And now that it's bumping along here that could play out even more so.
So the comment earlier about from Mike how important turn is it's just really critical that we keep our inventories fresh and that we're close to the customer and we have good flow and turn is one way to measure that.
So from the customers' point of view what are we seeing? I think we're -- we feel very fortunate about our breadth and the niche and the customers that we serve.
There are customers out there that are challenged with employment and housing other issues in this economy.
But for the most part we have a relatively affluent customer that if we do our job with our services and our products the customer is responding favorably.
And so that's what we're focused on and we're not economists but our trends this year give us encouragement if we can stay on that path.
So I'll turn the maybe the merchandise part over to Pete.
Yes our plans for the fourth quarter are consistent with our trends that you are aware of based on what we've reported over the last few quarters.
And the good news is there's -- our Shoe business is very strong continues to be strong.
And you actually asked about Boots specifically and it's pretty remarkable actually the amount of business we're doing as a percentage of the total Shoe business in Boots specifically.
And so we made a bet on that going into the season.
And from what we can tell right now that was the right way to go.
And so we're pretty encouraged about how we think it's going to end up for us there.
Beauty business has been good and so has Men's.
And what's nice about that in terms of them having an improved trajectory is they -- and same with the Accessory division as well.
They tend to do a disproportionate amount of business in the fourth quarter because of gift-giving.
So I think we feel like we're in a really good position to be able to take advantage of all the increased traffic that happens for this time of year.
Our next question is from Liz Dunn from Macquarie.
I guess following the conversation earlier about sort of the stacked comp the 3-year trend doesn't really get tough until -- or the 2-year trend I guess whatever way you want to look at it doesn't really get tough until December.
So how should we think about the November versus December trend given the fact that you do have an extra day in December versus the fact that the comps get more difficult in December? Liz as you know we don't give any kind of monthly forecast on comps but we do see an accelerating more difficult trend coming up in front of us and I think we'll see the results behave somewhat similar to that.
But we'll know soon enough.
Okay.
And then if you look at the sort of profitability of a sale online versus store so in the store you've got the commission and now online you've got the free shipping.
Can you help us sort of understand the puts and takes there? Yes.
Well I think I will answer that question from just a little bit higher level and that is from a return on capital perspective.
As you know that's how we tend to look at our overall ability to create value.
And clearly the online channel because of its lower fixed asset investment relative to a store base tends to have a higher return on capital.
The P&amp;L behaves a little differently than the stores but the capital base tends to be measurably lower.
So we see some higher returns there.
And even with all the line item kind of pressures that are going on whether it's free shipping or other forms of competition I think overall that model tends to have a higher return.
Our next question is from Edward Yruma from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> This is Jane in for Ed.
Most of my questions have been answered.
I just had one more.
If you could just elaborate on your product flow for holiday.
I think that you said you had changed it a little bit maybe increase for holiday and for next year versus prior year.
I'm not exactly sure what you're asking.
This is Pete.
I would say that the rhythms of how we receive merchandise and what we think we can sell is consistent to how we've always executed the fourth quarter.
There's nothing new or different going on there.
So I'm not entirely sure what you're asking.
Research Division</strong> That's what I was...
Jane are you referring to the fact -- I'm sorry.
Research Division</strong> Sorry go ahead.
I said were you referring to the fact where inventories were at the end of October? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Yes.
It's really not materially that different than what it was last year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of the comp the consistency of the comp drivers how was traffic versus conversion? Particularly at Rack and at the Nordstrom full-line? Yes Jane we normally don't break out those portions of the equation.
But suffice it to say with our overall volumes we're happy with the amount of traffic that's coming through our doors.
Our next question is from Richard Jaffe from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So just a follow-on to the HauteLook efforts and if you can give us some perspective on how you see that fitting both as an independent business and as an integrated part of Nordstrom.
You said you're going to keep it as a freestanding business in Los Angeles but obviously there's some intelligence that I think both of you could probably share.
So any additional color on that business and outlook for its contribution would be really helpful.
Sure.
Richard this is Mike.
There's 2 areas right now I think that we're focusing a lot of attention in terms of our ability to work together.
One is on the product side.
Both companies share relationships with some very important brands and we continue to find ways to improve our ability to work together and to get the best product we can across all our channels.
And the second is some marketing initiatives.
We've actually tried some things with the Rack and find ways to use HauteLook's large member list to push folks to the Rack and to attract more customers.
So those are 2 ways right now that we're working together.
In terms of a forward-looking on the performance of that business we're not talking about that right now.
I mean certainly in February when we talk about 2012 we'll give a little bit more color on those subjects.
And our final question is from Matthew Boss from JPMC.
Research Division</strong> Can you walk us through your localization initiative that you've spoken to? Specifically what it entails the time frame for the rollout and when we could see some initial benefits? This is Pete.
It's an ongoing deal.
This is really a big year -- 2012 will be big year of implementation for us.
So it's probably more about that than it is about literally seeing the benefits of it.
But I think -- it's clear to us that there should be some near-term benefits as soon as we get some things implemented.
So we're still kind of right in the middle of the implementation phase so I think it's premature to predict the benefits right now.
Research Division</strong> And what exactly does it entail? I mean in some ways I almost think of it as a smaller scale My Macy's program.
But my understanding is that it's clustering of stores and then the next piece is actually localizing the assortments at the store level.
I think there's also some in the buying and planning organization too.
Could you just elaborate on it a little bit? Matthew this is Mike.
In terms of what we're doing we're using a lot of the information that we've been able to gather over a lot of years with our SKU-based systems in order to more finally sort and allocate our product at a store level.
We have had local buying for -- local buying and local attention in the stores for a long time and it's done very well for us.
And I think now we have an opportunity to take it to the next level with a lot of the information we have available to us.
And we've designed a lot of the practices and way we're going to do that.
And to Pete's point next year is when we start to roll it out into the integrated systems and tools.
And so sometime in the next 12 to 18 months we should have a better feel as to where we are.
This is Rob.
Thank you for joining us today for our third quarter earnings call.
As a reminder a webcast replay of this call will be available for one year on the Investor Relations section of nordstrom.com under Webcasts.
Thank you for your interest in Nordstrom.
Goodbye.
Thank you.
And this concludes today's conference.
You may disconnect at this time.
Hello and welcome to the Nordstrom's Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2011 Conference Call.
At the request of Nordstrom today's conference call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] And I would now like to introduce Rob Campbell Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations for Nordstrom.
You may begin sir.
Hello everyone and thank you for joining us.
Today's earnings call will last approximately 45 minutes and will include roughly 30 minutes for your questions.
As a reminder all forward-looking statements on this call are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from the expectations and assumptions discussed due to a variety of factors that affect the company including the risks specified in the company's most recently filed Forms 10-K and 10-Q.
Participating in today's call are Blake Nordstrom President of Nordstrom Inc.; and Mike Koppel Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer who will discuss the company's fourth quarter and full year performance and outlook for fiscal 2012.
During the Q&amp;A session we will be joined by Erik Nordstrom President of Stores; Pete Nordstrom President of Merchandising; and Jamie Nordstrom President of Direct.
Before we begin I want to mention that Mike will be using slides that can be viewed within the Investor Relations section of our nordstrom.com website.
If you are listening to this conference call as a webcast you should already see the title slide.
With that I'll turn the call over to Blake.
Thank you Rob and good afternoon everyone.
As we've communicated in the past we recognize that customers have a growing number of options regarding their shopping experience.
The consistency of the customer experience both in-store and online and things like selection multichannel capabilities personalization speed convenience and price all are becoming more important.
Simply stated we want to be the retailer of choice whenever however wherever customers choose to shop by providing a superior customer experience.
As we continue our efforts to improve the level of service in our stores we also have accelerated our investments to elevate the customer experience in e-commerce.
This is where we saw the highest year-over-year sales increase in 2011 and it's where we expect the strongest growth in the future.
There were a number of highlights in 2011.
For the full year our company achieved an all-time high in sales which exceeded $10 billion.
We ended the year with same-store sales up 7.2% on top of the 8.1% increase that we achieved in 2010.
Our regular-priced selling remains at historically high levels which is indicative of the integrity of our pricing and the fashion and newness in our offering.
We continue to challenge ourselves on inventory turn.
In 2011 we reached 5.6x matching our all-time best in 2010 and a tribute to the high level of execution of our merchants.
Our company performance reflects the progress we've made in many parts of our business.
Full-line grew same-store sales of 6% while opening new stores in Delaware Nashville and a second store in St.
Louis.
We continued our efforts to connect salespeople with more customers to make the shopping experience better.
Over the last 3 years we've roughly tripled the number of personal stylists in our program and now have close to 1 300.
They represent some of our best salespeople and are leading our efforts in building one-on-one relationships with our customers and improving the overall customer experience.
We enhanced the ability of our salespeople to serve customers with the rollout of mobile point-of-sale devices and e-receipt capabilities.
Part of our effort in connecting and deepening relationships with new and existing customers is through our Fashion Rewards program with over 2.6 million active participants.
A month ago we announced a number of enhancements which give customers more control over how and when they can earn rewards and extends more benefits to our cardholders.
Our Direct business grew close to 30% in 2011.
We took a number of steps during the year to raise our level of service and accelerate overall e-commerce growth.
We launched  online free shipping and free returns in September which had a significant impact on direct sales and generated incremental profit.
We followed that with a small pilot of same-day delivery for online orders and we're continuing to build the knowledge in this area.
We implemented a Nordstrom app for iPhones and Androids upgraded our website while enhancing our mobile website to make both easier to use and improve the speed and quality of the delivery of merchandise to customers.
We're also adding close to 400 employees with e-commerce expertise and experience to complement our existing Direct team giving us the combined capabilities necessary to drive growth in this space.
At this time last year we announced our acquisition of HauteLook.
It gives us access to an emerging growing channel and allowed us to partner with a talented team.
The business as a standalone generated a sales increase of roughly 60% during the year while nearly doubling its membership to over 7.5 million today.
We anticipate robust growth in this business to continue with ongoing opportunities to share learnings that benefit us across channels.
Several years ago we accelerated the expansion of our Rack business and over this period our market share has grown significantly.
The Rack crossed the $2 billion threshold in 2011.
We opened 18 stores during the year leading to 21% total sales growth.
Our Rack business also generated growing increases in same-store sales throughout much of the year reflecting ongoing initiatives to get the best product at the best price.
As far as initiatives for 2012 we are planning the following: adding to the functionality of mobile point-of-sale devices and expanding their usage in full-line and Rack stores enhancing the overall Web and mobile Web experience building out our IT infrastructure to fuel our e-commerce growth beginning implementation of enhanced tools to improve the initial allocation and assortment of inventory expanding online merchandise selection and developing a more customized approach to all aspects of our engagement with customers.
In closing though we're moving faster than we ever have we remain committed to the level of discipline and execution that have served us well.
We're encouraged by the benefits we're already beginning to see from the investments we're making from the positive response we're getting from our customers and the strength of our top line performance.
We are confident that our heightened focus in e-commerce coupled with ongoing opportunities in our stores will enable us to further enhance our ability to serve and remain relevant with customers.
In doing so we're enhancing what we believe is a terrific foundation to best serve our customers today and in the future.
I'd now like to turn it over to Mike.
Thanks Blake.
Our fourth quarter results illustrated our continued execution of our operating plans along with an aggressive strategy to grow our business.
During the year we not only achieved record sales but completed back-to-back years of almost 13% growth in total sales.
We also realized a double-digit increase in earnings before interest and income taxes or EBIT for the second consecutive year and we achieved this while making significant investments to build on our platform for growth.
Whether it's increasing sales across channels or the initiatives underway to improve the customer experience and grow our customer base we believe we are on track to achieve our overall financial goals of mid-teen total shareholder returns.
For the full year our earnings per diluted share were $3.14 and our EBIT totaled $1.2 billion.
This is an increase of 14.2% in diluted earnings per share and an increase of 11.7% in EBIT compared with the fiscal year  2010.
For the fourth quarter our earnings per diluted share were $1.11 and EBIT totaled $417 million.
This was an increase of 6.7% in diluted earnings per share and an increase of 2.8% in EBIT compared with the same period in 2010.
Same-store sales in the fourth quarter were up 7.1%.
Nordstrom same-store sales which includes results from our full-line and Direct businesses were up 8.4% with the South and Midwest as our top-performing regions.
Handbags Designer and Cosmetics were our top-performing merchandise categories.
Sales in our Direct business grew 35% in the fourth quarter.
Nordstrom Rack net sales grew 17.7% in the fourth quarter with same-store sales up 2.2%.
As Blake mentioned we opened 18 Nordstrom Rack stores this year and anticipate 15 openings in 2012.
The sales productivity and return on investment continue to make expansion of this concept a compelling opportunity.
Fourth quarter gross profit as a percentage of net sales increased 12 basis points to 37.7%.
The improvement was driven entirely by leveraging buying and occupancy costs.
Total sales per square foot increased 8.4% while inventory per square foot increased 13.3%.
We believe this is appropriate given the anticipated growth in our business and recognizing that last year's inventory level was lower than planned.
We ended the year with inventory turn of 5.6 in line with our 2010 record high attributable in part to an increase in the percentage of regular-priced sales and reflective of the ongoing benefits from our multichannel capabilities.
Retail SG&amp;A increased $121 million compared to last year's fourth quarter.
The increase was driven by various e-commerce initiatives and investments including HauteLook and by higher volume from existing and new stores.
We continue to leverage SG&amp;A expense in our stores with improvements of approximately 35 basis points over last year.
Now we'll turn to our performance in Credit.
Positive trends continue as our customers are spending more in our stores and using our tenders as convenient methods to transact rather than building revolving credit.
This is reflected in our delinquency write-off and payment rates each of which experienced favorable trends.
As a result we have reduced the reserve for bad debt by $10 million.
This is in addition to $20 million of reductions taken earlier this year.
We ended the quarter with bad debt reserves as a percentage of ending credit card receivables of 5.5% down from 6.9% last year.
Our performance during the year added to the strength of our financial position.
We generated free cash flow of $432 million.
We have $1.9 billion of cash and total liquidity of approximately $2.7 billion.
Our adjusted debt to EBITDAR of 2.4x is well within the range of investment grade.
During the quarter we completed a secured 5-year $325 million debt transaction at a fixed interest rate of 2.3%.
We have $500 million in securitized notes that mature in April 2012.
With the financing noted above in addition to a $500 million 10-year unsecured debt transaction completed in the third quarter of 2011 we are well positioned to address this maturity.
Now I'd like to take a few moments to step back from the quarterly and annual performance to discuss our business model as we go forward.
To do this I'd like to refer you to the slides that we've made available on our website in the Investor Relations section at nordstrom.com.
Referencing the slide entitled "Investing for Growth." It reinforces our overarching goals of sustainable top line growth and mid-teens ROIC as drivers of value creation.
This is consistent with what we've shared with you over the past year.
Historically we built value from improved operating disciplines and efficiencies technology tools and physical store growth.
As we continue to drive growth at an accelerated pace in e-commerce we expect that this model will evolve.
E-commerce investments are expected to generate high-dollar growth in sales and EBIT as opposed to EBIT margin supported by a highly productive capital base.
We believe that our business model will shift to a blend of these approaches as the majority of our growth comes from e-commerce while the vast majority of our sales will come from brick and mortar.
With that I'll now turn your attention to comments on our capital plan.
From a capital allocation standpoint we're planning for $480 million to $520 million in net capital expenditures in 2012 with depreciation and amortization of approximately $370 million for the full year.
It represents an increase relative to 2011 with a greater emphasis in e-commerce.
In 2012 we plan to spend over $140 million in e-commerce representing approximately 30% of our capital expenditures compared to spend of almost $100 million or approximately 20% last year.
We plan to open 1 full-line store and 15 Rack stores this year along with a greater number of store remodels.
Our current 5-year capital plan is approximately $3.3 billion.
About 60% of our plan is for new stores and remodels.
Approximately 30% will fund e-commerce growth which is double the amount we had in our 5-year plan last year.
Now I will focus on the 2012 guidance which is provided based on a 53-week fiscal year.
We expect to achieve 2012 earnings per share of between $3.30 and $3.45 with same-store sales between 4% to 6%.
As has been our practice these expected results align with our operating plans reflecting the investments we are making and appropriate sales expectation.
This plan would deliver our third straight year of increasing sales by over $1 billion.
Our plan for the 53rd week will increase our annual sales and earnings per share by approximately $160 million to $170 million and between $0.03 and $0.05 respectively.
Our 2012 gross profit rate will range from 5 to 35 basis points lower than last year.
This primarily is a function of the near-record performance of merchandise margin in 2011 along with the unfavorable gross profit impact from an increasing mix of Rack stores the reduction of shipping revenue and the introduction of our enhanced Fashion Rewards program.
We anticipate retail SG&amp;A to be $265 million to $330 million higher than last year.
The increase primarily is due to the growth in volume from existing and new stores along with the previous-mentioned acceleration in e-commerce investments.
Credit card revenue is expected to be flat to up $10 million with no anticipated growth in credit card receivables due to increased sales volume being offset by higher payment rates.
Our credit SG&amp;A expense is expected to be $10 million to $20 million higher compared to last year primarily due to the absence of planned reductions in our reserve for bad debt.
EBIT as a percent of sales is planned to be in the range of 11.4% to 11.6% for the year.
This is a slight decrease from last year and is a function of the increased level of investments we've described.
Interest expense is anticipated to increase $25 million to $30 million largely due to increased borrowings and a higher interest rate relative to last year.
Free cash flow is planned to be approximately $400 million for 2012.
This reflects our continued ability to generate cash from operations and adequately fund our aggressive growth plan.
As we've stated in the past the highest and best use of our cash is to invest profitably in our business.
Beyond that while maintaining adequate liquidity and flexibility we look to return value to shareholders through dividends and share repurchase of which $310 million remains in our existing authorization.
In 2012 we will include in our quarterly earnings reporting a breakout of same-store sales for Nordstrom full-line stores Nordstrom Rack and Direct.
This is a change from the last several years in which we reported full-line and Direct comp sales on a combined basis due to the substantial integration between these 2 channels.
We continue to believe this is an accurate means of capturing the synergy between these 2 businesses.
However given the incremental investments we are making in our Direct business greater transparency regarding this part of our business is warranted.
As you can tell from our remarks we are excited about the strength of our core business the growth opportunities that lie ahead and the health of our financial position.
Overall we believe this supports our relentless desire to offer superior customer experience and increase shareholder value.
With that I'll turn the call over to Rob.
Thank you Mike.
[Operator Instructions] Operator we'll take the first question.
Our first question is from Charles Grom from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> If I look at your slide that you put on your website it looks like you're anticipating EBIT dollar growth of high single digits in 2012 and then low double digits in the out years.
Should we interpret that as thinking about your investment cycle as 2012 being a peak year in terms of dollar commitment and  also SG&amp;A compression? Sure Charles.
This is Mike.
Thanks for your question.
I think based on what we know today 2012 is a pretty significant step change for us relative to building up our capabilities and a number of initiatives in the Direct channel.
We also believe that going forward we're going to get more leverage out of the top line that's going to help that.
Now keep in mind what this does also say is that we're going to continue to grow the return on invested capital and that is our focus along with the top line sales growth.
Thank you.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I can just sneak one more in just on the upcoming technology initiatives can you shed a little light on exactly what you guys are going to be doing? And I know you've been testing geofencing in some of your stores.
Can you elaborate on that initiative? Yes this is Jamie.
I can't speak directly to the geofencing.
I can tell you a number of the things that we're doing are around the mobile space.
We've got a number of different initiatives to improve the service we're giving through mobile devices both in our stores and outside the store.
We're improving the speed and quality at which we can get merchandise to customers.
We think we've got a big opportunity there.
A lot of the tools and frankly the talent we need to be able to  improve the service we're giving through our online efforts are some of the things we're investing in this year.
Charles I this is Mike I'll just add one other thing that's very important.
And that's the work we're doing in planning and allocation which is something we've been working on several years and this is the year we're going to start to implement those technologies.
Our next question is from Edward Yruma from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit -- I think you highlighted the e-commerce piece of the CapEx as being roughly $140 million but you also cited some of these investments as being one of the reasons for a kind of down EBIT margin on a year-over-year basis.
How much of that investment are you actually expensing through the P&amp;L versus capitalizing? Sure.
Well Ed overall you can count that there's for roughly every $1 of capital that goes into technology there's roughly 30% to 40% that hits the P&amp;L in that current year.
So as we've talked about in the past when we accelerate these technology investments it is a more rapid reflection in the P&amp;L but then long term does reflect a more proficient capital base.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And one follow-up if I may.
I just want to confirm that your higher interest expense is a result of the debt raise that you did and there's kind of no other reasons for that.
Yes primarily that's it.
Our next question is from Jennifer Black from Jennifer Black &amp; Associates.
I wondered if you could talk about conversion now that you've had free shipping for a quarter.
What are you seeing with the average order size? And do you find most people are shopping multiple departments due to the time-saving nature as far as shopping those departments in-store? And then I also wondered is the information you're obtaining helping you to be more accurate in your planning and allocation for merchandise in your full-line stores? Jennifer it's Jamie.
Yes I think we've talked about the last couple  quarters since we've launched free shipping that we've seen improvements in just about every customer metric we have that we can measure online.
Conversion is up as you would expect it to be.
And we also look at things like average order size and units per order and cross-shopping across the website.
And clearly our free shipping offer has helped and customers have been telling us through their purchases that they really enjoy having that offering.
I couldn't tell you much about cross-shopping; those are things that we don't talk about publicly but I can tell you that we're seeing great customer behavior and they like it.
As far as the planning and allocation maybe Pete do you want to take that one? Well I think it's been part of our ongoing initiative that we want to have better more actionable information and particularly given the fact that we've been able to have more fission towards the speed of our term [ph] it means it's more important that we can allocate appropriately and correctly upfront.
So we've got access to better information.
I think we have a good sense of where the sales are coming from and therefore where the inventory needs to be.
So there's a lot of effort being made to make sure we're getting inventory in the right place upfront.
So that should continue to help improve our results as we go forward.
Our next question is from Lorraine Hutchinson from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Given your focus on e-commerce can you talk a little bit about longer-term store count goals for both the full-line and the Rack concept? Sure this is Erik.
For full-line stores we're at 117 right now and we think there's an opportunity around 125 in the United States.
So our store count new store count is dropping.
We have 1 new store planned for this year and a couple stores in the workout -- works after that without a affirmed date attached to it.
So that is slowing down.
For the Rack we continue to be in at around 15 stores a year.
We have a much shorter window with Rack planning so we don't have to commit as far in advance.
So for the foreseeable future we're comfortable with that range.
Research Division</strong> And then any thoughts on expanding into Canada? Do you want me to? Go ahead.
Okay.
We've been looking at Canada for over a year now.
And it is an attractive market for us.
We like it for several reasons.
It's -- we have a lot of customers there being as close as we are to the border and the markets are very attractive.
It's a very healthy retail environment there.
The challenge as you can probably guess is the real estate.
It's a tough real estate market given the mainly the dense urban areas where the population is.
So we have an interest in there and we think we could learn a lot that could inform us for other expansion after that but right now it's really a real estate question.
And at this point we haven't answered that one.
Your next question is from Paul Lejuez from Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit about the drivers behind your comp assumption for '12 just in terms of transactions versus ticket and I then I guess most specifically your AUR assumption for next year? Sure.
Paul this is Mike.
We usually don't break out those factors in terms of how we come up with our forward-looking numbers.
But I will share with you that in general we planned our stores meaning both the full-line and Rack in the 3% to 4% increase range and the balance was in our Direct business.
And that's how we came up to the 4% to 6% range.
Research Division</strong> And how should we think about inventory throughout the year in terms of year-over-year increase? Well it's this is Pete I think it's our ongoing quest to make sure that we're trying to grow sales faster than we're growing inventory.
That's what you've seen with our improving turns and our ability to be able to leverage all of these channels off one base of inventory enables us to do that again with better information.
So I think you should expect to see us try to continue up with those efficiencies and have sales grow faster than inventory.
That's how we're planning it.
Our next question is from Barbara Wyckoff from CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk about HauteLook in some detail? What was the drag on earnings actually last year? What is the projected drag on earnings this year? And then could you just give me also some more specifics on what will the new planning and allocation system do that the system you have now doesn't do? Okay Barbara this is Mike.
Regarding HauteLook the overall impact on the year was roughly $0.23.
I think when we went into the year we estimated roughly $0.20.
As far as next year it will be roughly half of that in terms of the impact to the P&amp;L.
We expect the company to continue to grow.
And we're looking at repeating that roughly 60% growth rate in 2012.
And we're going to continue to invest in that business and hopefully over the next few years see some more profitability there.
Research Division</strong> And the planning and allocation? And the second part of the question in terms of the planning and allocation I think the biggest advantage there is we're going to use the data that we have been accumulating through our multiple channels to develop better ways to allocate and assort our inventory plans on a store level.
Currently we're doing a lot of that with a lot of manual tools and I think some data tools and we're going to be able to use some technology to more efficiently help us do that through our purchase order system.
Our next question is from Dorothy Lakner from Caris &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering just 2 questions 1 on the Rack business.
You saw some really strong performance throughout much of the year a little bit more muted in the fourth quarter so I wondered if you could address that.
And then just secondly if you could give us a little bit more color on what you're planning in terms of the mobile PS -- POS unit.
Dorothy this is Blake.
I'll address the Rack.
We were really pleased with the team's efforts this last year not only with successfully opening all those new stores but continuing to grow the comp and there were a number of initiatives on that.
It is true that though there was about a 6- or 7-month trend of pretty consistent comps and it's softened slightly in the fourth quarter some of that was due to a pretty strong promotion that happened a year before in the month of December that we didn't  anniversary.
So we still had gains through it but it muted that performance a little bit.
But we're encouraged about that team and its contribution to the company and expect that through 2012.
This is Erik.
On the mobile POS devices we started about halfway through last year with  about 6 000 devices in all of our full-line stores and that includes some testing in the Rack stores as well.
We've had a very strong response to them.
Our plan for this year is to continue to increase the functionality of those devices.
Currently about 75% of what our fixed point-of-sale devices can do we can do on a mobile device.
By the end of the year that'll be 100%.
And we will increase the number of these devices both in the full-line stores and in the Rack.
So we believe more strongly today that those devices just help provide a better customer experience especially around personalization and speed.
Our next question is from Michelle Clark from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Mike I had a question for you.
Earlier in the Q&amp;A section you said that you had expected to get more leverage out of the top line.
Can you just remind us where you are in your leverage points today in your buying and occupancy and SG&amp;A and then how we should think about those leverage points go forward? Yes well in terms of our leverage points right now particularly the period we're going through we're much more focused again on driving that top line and sustaining and growing the return on capital.
Because part of what's going on is we're going through what we believe is a real I would say an incremental step-up in terms of the activity in the investment to take advantage of this e-commerce growth channel that we're seeing.
And so it's tough right now because we really don't have a stable point of view and a stable model in terms of where that's settling down and so we believe that the continued investment and being there where our customer wants to be in the moment is the more important thing.
And we're going to continue to invest in that.
Our next question is from Neely Tamminga from Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> So a housekeeping question is going to be on just the change in reporting.
So I hear what you're saying about the comp on full-line Rack versus Direct.
Have you guys done anything internally to actually change the way that you compensate your people since competition is kind of a big deal? And the big picture question is you guys are definitely testing around some fun stuff over in St.
Louis and Nashville in terms of store formats and flows.
Just wondering what are you learning in those new formats? How do you plan on applying some of those learnings? And give us a sense as to what that could do maybe to the remodels and how many remodels? That'd be helpful.
Okay Neely this is Mike.
In terms of the compensation we haven't made any changes to the way our folks are compensated as a result of where the sales are going in the various channels we're selling.
As for the new stores our new stores this last year performed -- they've done well ahead of our plans.
And they're like all of our new stores we apply learnings as we go along and they're all a bit different.
I think the stores last year all had more of  an integrated women's  apparel area that were less  department divisions that flowed I think a little better.
And we've had good response to that a little better women's apparel business as a percent of our total.
We're certainly investing in remodels.
We think there's  big opportunity there.
We've seen particularly good results when we've invested in our flagship stores our biggest best stores where we can invest.
And often a big part of that investment is expanding our Designer offering.
To have a full Designer offer with an enhanced environment in our best locations where there's a lot of customers a lot of tourism has really paid off for us so we will continue to focus on those areas in particular.
Our next question is from Robert Drbul from Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick questions.
First when you look at the '13 and '14 targets on the EBIT dollars as you put in the chart what are the profitability assumptions around the e-commerce piece of the business in the low double-digit growth that you're targeting for those out year? Well Bob this is Mike.
We haven't really disclosed individual profit goals for the business.
And I think an important part of that too is it's not just about the profit that comes from e-commerce; it's the overall value that we create for our customers through all channels and so it's tough to look at that in a silo and make some sort of assumption about that.
So we're really not breaking it out.
We'd like to think of this as the combined and collective offering.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just my second question if I could Mike.
On the inventory the levels of the inventory are there any pockets of inventory you guys are concerned about as you look to the beginning of this year? No Bob the answer's no.
We feel that we transitioned out of the fourth quarter very well.
We did what we needed to do to assure that going into the spring.
We had current and healthy inventories.
Some of the growth you're seeing is reflective of the continued growth in the assortment in the online business as well as anticipated volume levels that we anticipated in the month of February.
Our next question is from Paul Swinand from Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Just  along those same lines with the inventory obviously you've got industry-leading turns.
I'd assume as e-commerce grows that would make turns go even faster.
But maybe I don't understand it or maybe there are different things about the business as it grows that would maybe not make it turn as fast right? This is Pete.
I think in general it's made it go faster because we have a shared inventory that we've used so we're just -- it's more efficient.
What's going to change though is as we work to do a better job of gaining top line that's going to probably imply us having some more offer and selection online and we've got to invest in that.
And I think there's going to be a period of time when we  really understand how that inventory works for us.
So we're trying to gauge how far we can go in terms of the breadth of our offer online and still have it be efficient.
Research Division</strong> So I guess short term it's accretive but long term maybe neutral.
I -- we have to learn.
I mean this is a -- in the scheme of the life of this channel we're in very early stages.
And I think we have a lot to learn about how to do that.
But all that being said it's that we see it as a significant growth opportunity and we'll fund it appropriately.
Our next question is from Deborah Weinswig from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> So 2 questions.
Number one Blake in your prepared comments you spoke about expanding your online merchandise selection.
Well does that mean your online offering will differ  from what's in stores? Deborah we just talked about it in the previous question and both Pete was talking about it and Mike a little bit.
I think we prided ourself as merchants to try to have an edited buy a balanced buy within the confines of our customer demand in the store and space constraints and flow and a number of issues.
And so as we've applied that from kind of our roots to online to date that's served us pretty well.
But as we continue to listen to our customer they're expecting and demanding even more selection and they want that search engine to be that efficient means to quickly go to the item or items that they're hoping to have.
So that means more SKUs for us.
And whether that's leveraging what we have in our stores whether that's our facility at Cedar Rapids or down the road the possibility of another facility whether that's drop ship we have to execute on what the customer is looking for.
And we think at this point selection is really important online.
And so as Mike said we're on a steep learning curve there.
We're going after it and we expect to succeed there.
I will just say to add this is Pete that we would -- you would expect to find the same brands and classifications but we might be able to go with more selection in those brands than we could typically offer in a store so the selection will grow in some regard.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on January 20 I think it was announced that Obama was easing the Visa rules to boost U.S.
tourism.
Obviously with the -- as you mentioned you were kind of increasing your kind of Designer merchandise selections and obviously have a lot of stores on the West Coast that could easily benefit from this.
Can you talk about if you've incorporated anything of that into your comp estimates for 2012? And how you're thinking about that in terms of your merchandise selections? Yes Deborah we have not assumed anything in our comps as it relates to that change.
Hopefully we'll get some benefit but we didn't bake anything in.
Our next question is from Liz Dunn from Macquarie.
I guess -- I've so many questions but I'll start with what's -- can you give us an update on women's? After the departure of Loretta Soffe sort of what's going on with that business? And then I thought you said that the capital plan was $3.3 billion for over 5 years which if you just straight-line it is a little bit more than the CapEx that you've guided to for 2012.
So could you just help reconcile that? This is Pete.
With regards to women's yes it's been a challenging year for us.
And that has prompted some changes as you mentioned with our leadership there.
I think that we expect that we should be able to do better and we should be able to do better right away.
There's a lot of things we've tried this last year both related to what we're carrying and how we merchandise it in the stores.
And I think we're getting  to a place where we're able to draw some conclusions from that that we can apply across more stores and obviously in the spirit of being able to grow the business.
So I don't really have anything to announce there right now other than clearly we weren't satisfied with the results we had so we're making changes to improve those results.
And Liz this is Mike regarding your question on the $3.3 billion plan included in that plan in the tail end of those 5 years is roughly $600 million that relates to potential opportunities in the Canada market as well as Manhattan.
Our next question is from Richard Jaffe from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a question.
We've talked -- you've talked a lot about return on invested capital in your long-term objectives.
Could you talk about how you guys internally view HauteLook if you're holding them to the same ROIC standards as you hold the other divisions? Or is it really a Skunk works kind of operation where you're using it as a test and learning experience rather than an ROIC-driven kind of investment? Sure Richard.
This is Mike.
I mean our goal is that we want to grow businesses to create value.
And I think clearly we took a high risk by going into an early-stage business that tends not to have the same kind of operating metrics as more mature businesses do.
Long term we do have those kind of expectations.
We also believe it's going to create value return value for the greater enterprise.
So that being said the learnings we're getting from it and the accelerated top line growth we're getting we hope that over time will help us deliver the kind of return goals we have.
Our next question is from Erika Maschmeyer from Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Do you think 2012 is going to be another year where we see accessories continue to outperform apparel? And could you talk a little bit about the trends that you saw for boots over the holidays? We've heard that prices on some brands are going to be going up fairly substantially for next year.
Do you think that can continue and we can continue to see nice increases in units there? What -- with regards to the question on accessories we've had -- I mean I don't know how many years in a row we've had kind of outpaced growth there but it's been several.
So I certainly don't see anything in the business that would indicate that that's slowing down.
We've got good traction in those classifications.
We have good leadership and  good merchandising strategies.
And our plans are that we will continue to grow that business at least fast if not faster than the rest of the total business and as it all rolls up.
The other question was about boots specifically.
We had a great boot season this last year.
I mean our shoe division just had a really excellent year  kind of across the board and in large part because they planned well around the demand for boots not only in the fourth quarter but really kind of all throughout the year as it applied across fashion.
And I think that that will continue to evolve but for us that meant we had some average higher unit retail prices and that that worked out well for us.
But I don't think it's fair to assume that that will continue to go an upward trajectory.
I know that our group is really looking at other ways to tap into new growing markets.
So I don't think there's going to be a big seismic shift away from boots to something else but I think that should probably flatten out some and we'll see other categories emerge that we can grow with.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a follow-up.
What was the gross margin impact from free shipping in Q4? Well we didn't really comment but it's been and we said in Q3 roughly 10 to 15 basis points to the total company.
And our final question today is from Michael Exstein from Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple  quick points of clarification.
Number one when you talked about the loss from HauteLook that is not an incremental $0.10 $0.12 or $0.15 but a reduction year-over-year...
That's correct.
That's correct Michael.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then in terms of how come depreciation is sort of growing at a lower percentage rate than CapEx this year? Well because it's still catching up to the CapEx rate.
The growth this year and the way Michael that the CapEx is coming on the books is just the relative timing of when that's happening.
To assume that all that capital is going to come on in the first day is probably not likely.
Thank you.
Thank you for joining us today for our Fourth Quarter Earnings Call.
As a reminder a webcast replay of this call will be available for one year on the Investor Relations section of nordstrom.com under Webcasts.
Thank you for your interest in Nordstrom.
Goodbye.
Thank you.
And this does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for participating and you may now disconnect.
Hello and welcome to the Nordstrom 2012 First Quarter Conference Call.
At the request of Nordstrom today's conference call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] And I would now introduce Rob Campbell Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations for Nordstrom.
You may begin sir.
Hello everyone and thank you for joining us.
Today's earnings call will last 45 minutes and will include about 30 minutes for your questions.
As a reminder all forward-looking statements on this call are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from the expectations and assumptions discussed due to a variety of factors that affect the company including the risks specified in the company's most recently filed Forms 10-K and 10-Q.
Participating in today's call are Blake Nordstrom President of Nordstrom Inc.; and Mike Koppel Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer who will discuss the company's first quarter performance and outlook for fiscal 2012.
During the Q&amp;A session we will be joined by Pete Nordstrom President of Merchandising; Erik Nordstrom President of Stores; and Jamie Nordstrom President of Direct.
And now I'll introduce Blake Nordstrom.
Thank you Rob and good afternoon everyone.
As we shared in the earnings release our first quarter earnings were in line with our expectations with strong top line performance across all channels.
The consistent execution in our core business combined with our healthy financial position has given us the flexibility to more aggressively pursue growth opportunities particularly in e-commerce.
Having already established a solid foundation of multichannel capabilities which we continue to benefit from we're accelerating our efforts to further enhance the customer experience and increase our relevance with existing and new customers.
Selection speed and convenience have always been important to our customers but they are becoming even more critical going forward.
Here are a few highlights.
In e-commerce we made enhancements to our websites to improve things such as navigation graphics and making the checkout process faster and easier.
We increased the selection of merchandise in a number of online departments and added to the functionality of our mobile apps.
We increased the speed of fulfillment and delivery while making returns easier.
These types of initiatives are ongoing and the benefits of these efforts are reflected in the continuing strong top line growth we're seeing in our Direct channel.
In April we announced our partnership with online men's retailer Bonobos.
Established in 2007 Bonobos quickly earned a reputation for making great-fitting pants and offering a convenient shopping experience.
It's a fast-moving online retailer that has been successful in connecting and gaining relevance with the contemporary customer.
We value the opportunity to expand our capabilities through an upclose view of its Web-driven brand while gaining access to a great-fitting energetic clothing line to add to our men's assortment.
Recent store openings also offer example of how we're evolving in response to our customers' want to shop.
In March we reentered the Salt Lake City market with the successful opening of our store at City Center Creek.
We provided this store with roughly 150 mobile point-of-sale devices to help make shopping faster and more convenient.
This was the largest rollout to date with the store carrying 3x as many of these devices as cash registers.
We've been adding to both the functionality and number of these devices based on what we've learned since our initial rollout during the first half of 2011.
And we'll continue to build in new features that make them even more helpful to our customers.
In March we also relocated our downtown Seattle Rack store and had a strong reopening at its new location across the street from our Nordstrom flagship store.
This store 1 of 5 Racks opened during the quarter includes 16 mobile point-of-sale devices.
In the first 2 months of operation we've seen a significant increase in the speed of point-of-sale which translates into a better service experience in the Rack.
Our learnings in this store will be applied to a broader rollout of these devices in all Rack locations later this year.
During the quarter we saw a favorable response from our customers to the enhancements we made to our Fashion Rewards program.
You might recall that the changes we made essentially were about convenience giving our customers greater control over how and when to use their benefits and to make more of the benefits more easily accessible.
It's still early but in the first quarter we've seen new Fashion Reward accounts increase by nearly 50% from a year ago.
We are pleased with this program that allows us to build and strengthen our relationships with customers.
Again these are just a few examples of the meaningful growth opportunities to improve upon the customer experience in all channels.
We believe strongly in our strategic direction of elevating the customer experience both in-store and online.
Over the past 12 months we've made substantial progress through our efforts in undertaking multiple initiatives including the acquisition of HauteLook rollout of mobile point-of-sale devices free shipping and returns enhanced Fashion Rewards our partnership with Bonobos growing our e-commerce capabilities continuing expansion of the Rack and there will be more.
We are moving more quickly we're accelerating our learning and we're acting on our commitment to improve the customer experience.
With that I'll turn the call over to Mike.
Thanks Blake.
Our first quarter results continue to demonstrate our ability to drive top line performance through our aggressive growth strategy.
As we've shared previously we are undergoing a step change in terms of the level of investments we are making to significantly enhance the customer experience particularly in e-commerce.
We're continuing our expansion of Nordstrom Racks and remain focused on increasing productivity in our full-line stores.
We are firmly convinced that our strategic direction is sound and we feel confident that the strength of our business will continue.
We are moving at a fast pace.
Although our operating model is evolving we remain disciplined in our approach to the investments we're making and in our focus on execution.
Even with these additional investments we anticipate achieving in 2012 the highest EBIT dollar performance in the history of the company driven by the strong sales momentum we're experiencing.
And as we view the longer-term outlook we are squarely on track with our overarching goals of achieving high single-digit top line growth and mid-teens return on invested capital.
For the first quarter our earnings per diluted share of $0.70 represented an increase of 8% from last year.
Our earnings before interest and income taxes totaled $280 million an increase of 2.9% from last year.
Total sales increased 13.7% while same-store sales increased 8.5%.
Nordstrom same-store sales which include our full-line and Direct businesses were up 9.3% with Handbags Women's Shoes and Men's Shoes as our top-performing merchandise categories.
Same-store sales at full-line increased 5.6% with the South and Midwest as our top-performing regions.
Direct continues to be our fastest-growing business delivering sales growth of 44.2% over last year.
Nordstrom Rack total net sales grew 19.6% with same-store sales up 6.8%.
First quarter gross profit as a percentage of net sales decreased 31 basis points to 37.5% which is mostly due to our enhanced customer loyalty program and the reduction of shipping revenue associated with free shipping and return introduced last fall.
Total sales per square foot increased 10.1% while our ending inventory per square foot increased 16%.
Our inventory levels are aligned with our merchandise plans.
The gap is indicative of the accelerated growth we are seeing both online and in-store.
Our inventory turn of 5.4x down slightly from Q1 of 2011 was in line with our expectations that anticipate a year-over-year improvement for the full year.
The percentage of regular price sales continued to increase compared to last year which is attributable to the ongoing benefits from our multichannel capabilities.
Retail SG&amp;A expense increased $110 million during the quarter.
Roughly half was related to our e-commerce growth strategy focused on building capabilities to improve selection convenience and the overall service experience online.
In total they are fueling the outside sales increases we're achieving in this channel.
The majority of the remaining increase in SG&amp;A was attributable to the sales growth in existing and new stores.
While we're accelerating the growth in e-commerce because of the rich opportunity we believe it represents our in-store business continues to deliver incremental profits on incremental sales that are in line with our expectations and with our recent historical performance.
Next we will turn to our performance in credit where the positive trends continued.
In addition to the early indicators Blake mentioned with respect to the enhanced Fashion Rewards program and the growth in the number of new accounts we again saw improving trends in our credit metrics.
It was notable that the write-off rate declined to 4.7% from 7% a year ago.
Combined with the review of our overall credit portfolio performance and economic outlook we have reduced the reserve for bad debt by $10 million.
We ended the quarter with bad debt reserves as a percent of ending credit card receivables of 5.2% down from 6.7% last year.
Our financial position remains strong with $1.6 billion of cash and total liquidity of approximately $2.4 billion.
Our adjusted debt to EBITDAR of 2.1x is well within the range of investment-grade.
In April we retired $500 million in securitized notes at maturity.
During the quarter we repurchased 800 000 shares at an average price of $50.79 for a total of $40 million.
We have $1.1 billion remaining under our current authorizations.
Our EPS outlook for fiscal year 2012 is unchanged.
We increased retail SG&amp;A guidance by $10 million to reflect additional e-commerce opportunities that we are moving forward with.
This is offset by a $10 million reduction in credit SG&amp;A guidance as a result of the Q1 reduction in the reserve for bad debt.
We are pleased with the strength of our sales.
However we believe it makes sense at this point to maintain our existing view of 2012 earnings given that we are only one quarter into the fiscal year.
This year's Anniversary Sale our largest sale event of the year begins 1 week later in July this year versus last year.
As a result an additional week of this year's event occurs in August which is in our third quarter.
To better understand the estimated impact on our financial performance we provided directional comments in the earnings release on the timing of sales gross profit and SG&amp;A over the remaining quarters of 2012.
In closing our first quarter's performance is on track with our long-term growth plan.
We are excited about the momentum in our business the strength of our financial position and the multiple opportunities we see to drive growth and enhance the customer experience.
With that I will turn the call over to Rob.
Thank you Mike.
[Operator Instructions] Operator we'll take the first question.
Our first question today is from Deborah Weinswig from Citi.
Research Division</strong> So in terms of expense side of things Mike with 50% of the deleverage you attributed to the stores was that basically technology-related? Can dive into that a little bit deeper? Yes.
Sure Deborah.
I didn't say that we were delevering.
I said that half of the $110 million in expense dollars increase was due to the stores.
Now of that we did get a percent of sales leverage on a store performance.
Where we saw the deleverage from a percent of sales is from the accelerated investment in the e-commerce and technology space.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of the credit card penetration can you talk about where that is now? And how are your new Fashion Reward customers shopping you differently? In terms of the credit card penetration can you give me a little bit more clarity on that? Research Division</strong> Just where are you in terms of your Nordstrom customer -- yes your Nordstrom card...
Okay.
Yes.
We are roughly 1/3 plus of our overall volume is done on our various tenders including our debit card and our private label Retail and the cobranded Visa.
We continue to see really accelerated growth as a result of Fashion Rewards.
And one of the things that we did start this year is offering rewards in the Rack.
And so we continue to see a lot of growth there of which over half of those are debit cards.
And of course the Rack continues to attract a relatively younger customer and so we like that pipeline.
But the overall health of folks being able to get in the program earlier move up the various levels faster and be able to enjoy the benefits quicker are paying off.
Our next question is from Michelle Clark from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> The first question is your gross margin guidance for the year implies that back half gross margin performance will be better than the first half.
And I'm just trying to figure out why that would be given my guess is the rewards program will continue to offer the benefits it does today.
And then I'm guessing that you would expect that the e-commerce business would continue its strength.
Yes.
Michelle this is Mike.
One of the primary reasons is that we'll be lapping over when we give free shipping and returns which I believe started sometime in September last year.
And so the impact to that will be neutralized after we cross that.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then my second question was what was e-commerce growth in the first quarter of last year? So if it was up 44% this year how much was it last year in the first quarter? I don't we believe we disclosed it last year first quarter.
But needless to say it was a strong double-digit comp increase.
Our next question is from Charles Grom from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just Mike if I look at the 1Q performance and if I layer in the guidance that you guys gave by quarter and then the full year it looks like your front half margin flowthrough is negative maybe roughly 3%.
And it looks like your second half guidance implies a flowthrough much higher maybe like 18%.
I'm just wondering if that math is correct.
And should we interpret that most of your investment spend is front end-loaded here in 2012? Sure Charles.
In terms of the math you did I'm not going to comment on the exact math.
But I think it's fair to say what we're seeing is the continuation of the accelerated investment which began in the back half of last year and will continue through the front half of this year.
And in addition the fact that we had some additional expense last year due to the free shipping free returns.
So we definitely believe that our back half performance is going to be stronger from an earnings standpoint.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a little bit of confusion still on the Street with regards to that slide you guys did in February.
Can you flesh out for us a little bit kind of how you think the investment pattern is going to flow as you move from this year to 2013 and beyond? Well I think I would just clarify that the purpose of the slide was to directionally give you a sense of how we were thinking about the overall growth opportunities in front of us.
And keep in mind that it was what we thought at that point in time and we're going to continue to take advantage of every opportunity we see to grow this business in a profitable way.
I think what we were trying to depict here is the fact that 2012 saw a step change at an accelerating moment of investment.
And that we would expect that that would fuel future sales and achieve the mid-teens ROIC that we've been talking about for a while.
So the idea there was not to be an absolute depiction of exactly where we're going to be.
But I think directionally that we expect that these investments are going to help us achieve our long-term goals.
Our next question is from Jennifer Black from Jennifer Black &amp; Associates.
Research Division</strong> My first question is about the women's business.
I wondered if you had given any thought to adjusting the allocation of space but with your underperforming departments or if you're thinking of adding any new departments.
And then I wondered where you are in hiring a GMM.
This is Pete.
Yes.
I think it's appropriate for us to always be looking at space and how we could be most effective.
If you look over the last 5 to 10 years we've had really good growth in our accessory division in the shoe division and the cosmetic division.
And you know those are all in the first floor typically so this puts a squeeze a little bit on that floor.
Women's typically is on 2 or 3.
So it isn't super easy to adjust the space that way.
But we continue to find ways to add more energy and productivity to our second and third floors.
And you may have noticed that one of the things that we've done is we've started a trend accessory department over the last year or 2 and we've got those in and amongst the women apparel departments and those have been successful.
We've also had pretty good growth in active apparel recently and in lingerie.
And in many cases that's taking up some more space.
So it's just an ongoing balancing act for us to try to reconcile the space to be most efficient.
And so it's nothing really new but I think to answer your question is yes we're continuing to work on that.
And what was the second part Jennifer? Research Division</strong> Where are you in hiring somebody as far as to head up women's? We're still working on that.
That's been going on for a while.
We've been obviously vetting the internal candidates that we have and we have some really good ones.
But since that the job was open it seemed like the practical thing to do for us to consider who else might be out there.
And that's been really a positive experience for us that we've met a lot of interesting people that have an interest in Nordstrom.
And so we're still going through that process.
But certainly by our next call we will have named a leader there.
I'm confident in that.
Our next question is from Barbara Wyckoff from CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Could you give us some color on the HauteLook business where you're looking for the sales to be this year? And then could you comment on the Brooks Brothers partnership? And then just lastly quantify the impact of the 53rd week again.
Okay.
Barbara this is Mike.
I'll answer the first and third one and then I think Pete you can get the second one.
In terms of HauteLook our expectations is that we have a plan to do a 50% 60% sales increase this year.
And the company currently is on plan and continues at very very good momentum.
And we continue to be very excited about the opportunities.
I will add just another piece of information there.
Just recently the company's been able to surpass the 8 million mark in terms of the number of members to the business.
And so we continue to be really excited.
In terms of the 53rd week impact it's roughly a $0.03 to $0.05 impact for that period.
And then I think the second question was on Brooks Brothers.
Yes.
That's going well.
They're good partners.
I think we're still in the early part of that relationship.
And I think a big part of that is them understanding more about our customer and what's going to work for us and us having appreciation of the things that have made their brand successful over the years.
So we started someplace and I think obviously what that has shown us is that we have more to learn from each other.
But it's a good collaborative partnership.
I think we have every reason to be hopeful about where it's going to take us.
And I would say the early read has been promising.
Our next question is from Neely Tamminga from Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> I don't know if I missed this but did we talk about why we moved the Anniversary Sale? I'm just wondering what the strategic decision was behind that kind of shifting it.
And maybe related to that too would just be how are you planning on maybe focusing on that Fashion Rewards opportunity maybe a little bit more intentionally than we even saw last year to kind of build on the momentum that you guys have already gained in success there? Sure.
Erik you want to comment on the timing of the anniversary? Sure.
It's actually not anything unusual.
Because we always want to start on a Friday each year it gets 1 day or 2 days earlier depending on leap year.
So we have had this timing before.
Eventually we have to drop it back a week and we did that this year.
So it causes some problems with the quarter but it is something we've done before.
Okay.
And Neely in terms of Fashion Rewards we still have the same program as we had last year as it relates to anniversary in that Fashion Rewards customers have that exclusive opportunity to shop earlier.
We're going to continue to find ways to expand that.
So more customers can shop earlier that are rewards customers and the benefits that go along with that.
So we continue to be excited about that program.
And also the fact that it is now attached to the Rack allows it to even impact more customers.
Our next question is from Lorraine Hutchinson from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to follow up on the question on the women's business.
We've heard a couple of your competitors mention that traditional or classic women's is starting to pick back up.
Can you just talk about how that business is going for you and any initiatives you have to turn it positive? This is Pete.
Yes our women's performance on the whole has been kind of challenging.
But there's always been some pockets that have worked pretty well.
For us what's tending to do better is kind of more of the modern casual side of our offer.
But I guess obviously that's relative to where we've been in the past as well.
I think there's some good pockets of success in more of the classic part.
But I wouldn't characterize it as some kind of a shift in the customer preference.
That's not what we're seeing as much.
I think most of the momentum for us is kind of pushing us more towards modern.
Research Division</strong> And then the gross margin guidance for the second quarter I assume there's some moving around given the Anniversary Sale.
X those shifts would it be similar to 2Q? Yes.
Our next question is from Paul Swinand from Morningstar Inc.
Research Division</strong> Real quick on your prepared remarks I think you said that turns slowed slightly but would pick up in the back half of the year.
I guess with the strong pull-forward and the good weather I thought maybe turns would even pick up a little.
Could you just give us a little more color on why they maybe slowed and why they would pick up at the back half of the year? Sure.
Well Paul this is Mike.
That was built into our plans as it relates to the expansion both we're seeing with the new stores that we've opened in the Rack as well as the expansion we're experiencing in Direct.
And last year at this time as we came out of the end of the previous year and to the first quarter we were slightly under and we recognized that.
And so the combination of our position last year and the accelerating growth we're seeing right now that was built into our plans.
But our goal is for the year as we get through this period that we will be ahead of last year's turn by the end of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then just on a unit basis are you actually a little lighter on units but maybe up on the dollar inventory a little more? No I don't think that's the case.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then real quick I know you guys disclosed return on capital.
As you do all this new investment in technology obviously more of it is expensed than capitalized or a portion of it is expensed.
Is that maybe affecting your return on capital? And should we be in fact thinking about some of those as assets instead of expenses? Well actually in the short run it's affecting more of our P&amp;L than our return.
It affects the return on capital in the sense that it depresses the P&amp;L.
But long run you'll actually see capital on a comparative to what we used to do.
On building stores the capital will grow at a slower rate but the P&amp;L won't to be as rich because more of that money goes through the P&amp;L.
Our next question is from Dorothy Lakner from Caris &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to ask if you could give a little bit more color on the kinds of things you're doing with the mobile units to increase functionality.
And whether for before anniversary as you did last year there'd be a significant increase in the number of them out there or in the new functionality that you're offering.
Or is that something we should see more towards year end? Erik do you want to...
Sure I'll take that.
We are continuing to add functionality to the year.
We're at about 75% of the functionality of a register is on our mobile devices right now.
By the end of year we will be at 100%.
And next year we'll actually have additional functionality that we don't even have on the registers.
So we are not adding a big chunk of the mobile devices before anniversary this year.
We look to test some more -- I mean not really test but to roll out more in the fourth quarter.
And then once we hit full functionality we will plan on having a big rollout at that time.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So that would be next year.
First quarter of '13 yes.
Our next question is from Liz Dunn from Macquarie.
Just first point of clarification on the guidance for credit SG&amp;A so the $44 million in Q1 that was just because you had the $10 million sort of reversal.
Is that correct in terms of bad debt? That's correct.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the balance of the year a little bit higher than the run rate x that reversal.
But just some conservatism or...
It's consistent with the -- the only difference between what we shared last quarter and this quarter is the $10 million change in the reserve.
There's no real change in the pattern of spending there than what we thought a quarter ago.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my other question is just I'm sure you saw this article in The New York Times the other day about Amazon's big push into fashion and mentioned a bunch of things like they're going to hire 3 people to just try on size 8 shoes so they can give customer reviews that kind of thing.
Obviously they've got a huge amount of cash so that they can do some of these things.
What do you really think as you look at yourself versus Amazon what are your -- what are the things that you have that they don't have in this category the ways that you feel like as a brick-and-mortar retailer you can kind of shine that they can't? This is Jamie.
That's a good question.
I'm hesitant to talk about what competitors are doing.
But I'll tell you that we're really focused on serving customers on their terms.
We've been focused for a long time on our goal of improving customer service and we realize that now and going forward that how customers define service is changing and a lot of that is going online it's mobile.
It's about as Mike said speed and convenience.
So we're making a lot of investments as you see in our capabilities around those areas.
And we think that we've got a good opportunity with our team here to build some capabilities to be able to serve customers in the kind of ways that they want to be served.
And we want to be known as a place that gives great service.
And that's pretty important to us.
Our next question is from Paul Lejuez from Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Just thinking back to Chuck's question and sorry if I missed the answer or if it was asked this way.
But should we be thinking any differently about the guidance that you gave last quarter for F'13 EBIT dollars to grow faster than sales? No.
Research Division</strong> That's still the plan.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And also can you just maybe talk a little bit about the profitability of the Rack division year-over-year in the first quarter? Well we don't normally break out the profitability of the Rack.
But what I will say is the Rack continues to be a terrific opportunity for us to deploy capital.
We're continuing to grow at roughly 15 stores a year.
We have not seen a marginal or any kind of deterioration in the incremental stores that we're opening in terms of their performance.
So we continue to be very excited about that.
Our next question is from Michael Binetti from UBS.
Research Division</strong> So if I look at the e-commerce growth at 44% this quarter I have to assume that's faster than what you guys expected even in the quarter that's a strong result.
And even after the big step-up that you gave us on spending to fuel the e-commerce side of the business if you see the e-commerce business keep growing at this pace would anything stop you from increasing the SG&amp;A further in 2013 or beyond to maintain this pace of growth there? Yes in terms of what our expectations are I think we've shared with you -- this is Jamie by the way -- that we have big ambitions for our online business.
And so we think we're in the very early innings of this channel still even though we've been doing this for a while.
We think that there's a lot of opportunity to capture a lot more customers and grow a lot more.
So well yes the number is big.
We think we should be growing in that general area.
In terms of SG&amp;A as we've talked about we are ramping up right now.
Going back to fourth quarter as we've shared we're acquiring a lot of talent.
A lot of the capabilities that we want to add to be better in e-commerce sometimes boils down to just having people the right people more of them.
We are adding a lot more people to the team.
That's happening now.
That will end.
And so SG&amp;A beyond the first half of this year should definitely be a slower growth rate than we're currently experiencing.
Research Division</strong> And I'm kind of reflecting back on the $1 billion in e-commerce in multiyear 5-year.
Does that -- do you envision that as eventually including a separate Rack website online flash sales through there like some other soft lines have been doing? There's a lot of potential there.
We're really focused on listening to our customers and they're telling us where we're going to go.
I think as we've gotten better at testing and trying things we're learning a lot faster about what customers like and what they don't.
And that's going to lead us where we go both in terms of our stores and e-commerce.
So hard to speculate on what it looks like 5 years from now but we think the potential's pretty darn big.
Our next question is from Robert Drbul from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> It's Joan Payson standing in for Bob today.
So just in terms of your gross margin in the first quarter down 30 basis points what was the contribution from the merchandise margins embedded in that? Merchandise margin was roughly flat to last year.
As I said in the remarks it was predominantly related from Fashion Rewards and from free shipping free returns.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then also in terms of your second quarter comp store sales guidance that low double-digit increase what do you expect directionally on a monthly basis just given the shifts in Mother's Day and Anniversary Sale? We normally don't guide on a monthly basis.
Our next question is from Jacob Zitter from Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Can you discuss the drivers behind the strength in comps at Rack this quarter? Have you been able to improve your buy into that channel? I know you're thinking about trying to leverage your full-line relationships a little more.
Or is that acceleration more a function of the customer service enhancements? Blake you want to take that please? I'm sorry one more time I didn't hear the question.
Research Division</strong> Just the drivers behind the strength in comps at Rack have you been able to leverage some of your full-line relationships? Or is it more customer service enhancements at the store level? That's a good question.
There really is a synergy between the 2.
And that really was from our inception way back in the early '70s when we had a Rack in the basement of our downtown Seattle store.
And since then we have just continued to see a really healthy relationship.
The closer we can have a Rack to successful full-line store is really beneficial for both.
And when we opened that down -- or relocated that downtown Seattle Rack in addition to the reopening figures across the street the downtown Seattle full-line store enjoyed some really healthy gains.
And so there is customer movement back and forth.
There's an acquisition subject.
That's also true with employees from a career path.
So at this point as Mike said earlier we're really pleased with the Rack and its growth plans and continue to support it.
Our next question is from David Glick from Buckingham Research Group.
Just a follow-up on the Rack and then a merchandise question for Pete.
In the past before you started to expand the Rack a little more significantly you used to talk about a maximum number of stores that you might consider.
Now that the number of Rack stores is going to end up a bit greater than the number of full-line stores at the end of this year as you look out at your multiyear plans is there kind of a maximum number of stores that you envision? Do you reach a point where you risk cannibalization? Second question Pete do you still see enough innovation and strong enough trends in center core to continue those really strong trends which have been a huge driver for you and others in the industry? Or do you have to count on some other areas to drive the same kind of comps you've been driving overall? Well this is Blake.
On the Rack question we have over the years kind of evolved our thinking about that balance of our merchandise offering.
And we're very sensitive to the integrity of our pricing and to those goods.
We've been very pleased with the relationship that we have with our vendors to get terrific access to our top vendors and top items.
And so what I think is important to note though we may at the end of this year be crossing from a physical store count our e-commerce business is so robust that when you put the 2 together from a percentage-wise the Rack is staying pretty constant.
So the big driver and it's not dissimilar to what Jamie said earlier about our e-commerce is the customer is dictating this growth and they are very supportive.
And that's reflected in the results with our execution in the Rack.
And so if we're able to continue to get great product from our vendors in great locations we're going to continue to grow this way.
And on the merchandise classification question Pete? Yes.
You know what it's actually one of the great things about working in our industry is that hope springs eternal.
So regardless of what merchandise division you're talking to at any given time they're always excited about what's coming next.
And the vendors obviously start that and our buying people they're part of that as well.
So it's usually an issue about trying to reel them in in terms of how much they want to spend rather than are there good things to go out there and buy.
So I think if you were to take a general assessment of our confidence in finding great things for our customers going forward I think it's high.
There's no reason why we shouldn't be able to continue to deliver compelling fashion for our customers.
And our final question today is from Richard Jaffe from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Quick question on inventory on hand and the inventory build we should anticipate for the summer sale the Anniversary Sale.
You seem a little heavy today.
Just numerically I'm wondering do we need to get through that to reposition the inventories for the holiday sale? Or are you already shipping some of the anniversary product early? Well I think Richard the point we indicated earlier there was a couple of factors there.
One was just the overall acceleration of the pace of the business on the whole in the aggregate and within the channels.
And the second was the fact that last year we're a little light in the first quarter.
So this isn't really I don't think a reaction or a response to the upcoming sale in terms of anything that would be out of the ordinary cadence.
And you should see actually coming out of the second quarter inventories will be slightly higher because of the fact that we have 1 more week of Anniversary Sale going into the third quarter.
But in terms of our overall business other than those fiscal cutoffs it's pretty much in line as to where it should be.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And I guess a follow-on to the e-commerce business the opportunity obviously to accelerate the Rack business to reflect the growth at the full-line stores or the growth you've talked about for HauteLook any thoughts about an off-price venue online a more robust off-price venue? Sure.
Well this is Jamie.
We do have an off-price online business it's HauteLook.
And as Mike mentioned earlier it's grown about 60% this year and we're ahead of plan there.
So we're feeling pretty good about our positioning there.
We do get asked a lot is there a more traditional off-price model that works online? And we're looking for one.
And if you look across the industry of the people we compete directly with in our Rack business there's not a lot of e-commerce going on there.
And there's a reason for that.
It's not obvious how you would do that.
The flash sale business has gone from 0 to almost $2 billion now in just a few years.
And we're competing there.
And so far we're pretty pleased with our growth.
Thank you for joining us today for our first quarter earnings call.
As a reminder a webcast replay of this call will be available for 1 year on the Investor Relations section of nordstrom.com under Webcast.
Thank you for your interest in Nordstrom.
Goodbye.
Thank you.
And this concludes today's conference.
You may disconnect at this time.
Hello and welcome to the Nordstrom 2012 Second Quarter Conference Call.
At the request of Nordstrom today's conference call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] I will now introduce Rob Campbell Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations for Nordstrom.
You may begin sir.
Hello everyone and thank you for joining us for the Nordstrom conference call which will last 45 minutes and include 30 minutes for your questions.
As a reminder all forward-looking statements on this call are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from the expectations and assumptions discussed due to a variety of factors that affect the company including the risks specified in the company's most recently filed Forms 10-K and 10-Q.
Participating in today's call are Blake Nordstrom President of Nordstrom Inc.; and Mike Koppel Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer who will discuss the company's second quarter performance  and outlook for fiscal 2012.
During the Q&amp;A session we will be joined by Pete Nordstrom President of Merchandising; and Erik Nordstrom President of Stores.
Before we begin I wanted to mention that Blake and Mike will be using slides that can be viewed in the Investor Relations section of our website.
If you're listening to this conference call as a webcast you should already see the title slide.
If you're listening by telephone you can view the slides by going to investor.nordstrom.com.
With that I'll turn the call over to Blake.
Hello everyone.
I'm happy to provide an overview of our company's progress as we reached the halfway point of 2012.
There's a lot of momentum in our company with multiple initiatives driving substantial top line growth and full-line Rack and our Direct business.
We just completed our Anniversary Sale and once again we were thrilled by the customer response with high volumes of traffic both in-store and online and sales through July that were above our expectation.
The overarching theme in our company continues to be about improving the customer experience across all channels.
It is reflected in our top line results and in the increasing number of growth opportunities that are emerging.
I'd like to take a few moments to review our progress along these lines in the second quarter.
There are several slides we've made available on our website in the Investor Relations section as a supplement to our comments.
The first slide highlights some of our recent growth initiatives.
We are excited to announce in June our plans to open a full-line store in New York City.
In one sense it's the culmination of efforts for over a decade defined what we believe is an outstanding location for our flagship store in the world's premier city for retailing.
In another sense it's a beginning as we go through the process of preparing for what we hope will be the highest volume store in our company and an opportunity to further elevate and extend our brand.
We look forward to its opening which we anticipate will occur in 2018.
The Rack continues to execute well increasing its market share while achieving high sales productivity EBIT margins and return on invested capital.
Recognizing its growth potential several years ago we embarked on a more ambitious store expansion plan for the Rack.
Over the last 4 years the number of Racks has more than doubled to 110 today.
Based on what we've experienced during this period and how our customers responded we see an opportunity for even greater acceleration in its growth.
We will continue with our plan to open a total of 15 Racks this year and then increase to 24 openings in 2013.
Its' likely that we'll have doubled our size again by 2016 with over 230 Rack stores.
We are encouraged by the performance we've seen in this business and by the ongoing growth opportunity it represents to serve more customers.
Our Direct business followed its 44% sales increase in the first quarter with a 40% increase in the second quarter.
It largely reflects the meaningful investments we're making to improve the customer experience in e-commerce expanding selection improving the site experience expediting the checkout and delivery process and ultimately making it easier for our customers to shop.
This year for the first time our Fashion Rewards customers had the chance to shop online during the 9-day early-access period prior to the start of the event.
And with the launch of the Nordstrom iPad app coming later this month we are excited to introduce some novel features that we think customers will appreciate.
We continue to leverage technology to improve the customer experience.
We are constantly adding to the functionality of our mobile point-of-sale devices and their use in our stores is increasing.
By the end of the year they will have all of the capabilities of our existing cash registers.
We've successfully tested mobile point-of-sale in the Rack and have seen its effectiveness in improving the shopping experience by speeding up the checkout process.
We are in the process of rolling out around 1 500 of these devices to all of our Rack stores by the end of the third quarter.
For a number of years we have leveraged strategic partnerships that we view as enablers to improving the customer experience.
They've happened organically as an outgrowth of our ongoing efforts to elevate merchandise and channel execution.
We've made acquisitions of Jeffrey and HauteLook and established partnerships with kidswear brand Peek and more recently men's online apparel retailer Bonobos.
These relationships provide opportunities such as increased access to product and customers and deeper knowledge of how to market to and build relationships with customers using technology.
The most recent for us is our announced U.S.
exclusive partnership with Topshop and Topman internationally renowned leaders in offering newness in fashion at great prices.
In September we'll begin carrying merchandise in 14 of our stores as well as online.
We'll learn a lot during this initial phase and anticipate expanding distribution in the future.
As we said last quarter we're moving fast and it's in response to the multiple opportunities that are in front of us.
Growth is an increasingly meaningful part of our story as we seek to continually enhance our platform for sustainable improvements in performance.
Now I'll turn over the call to Mike.
Thanks Blake.
In wrapping up the first half of the year we are encouraged with the momentum in our business.
As we aggressively pursue opportunities to evolve with the customer whether it is in-store or online we are seeing the benefits reflected in our top line results.
We are excited about our investments in e-commerce the acceleration of Rack expansion and our plans to open a flagship store in Manhattan.
We have many efforts underway to improve the service experience and to stay relevant with existing and new customers.
Our financial position is strong and we're seeing favorable trends in every channel.
We have a demonstrated record of results from major technology and business initiatives from the implementation of perpetual inventory system some time ago to our more recent multi-channel efforts which have driven significant profitable growth.
This gives us confidence as we aggressively move forward on multiple growth opportunities to execute successfully and deliver long-term shareholder value.
Moving on to results.
I'd like to make a couple of comments on our biggest sales event of the year.
This year's Anniversary Sale exceeded our expectations delivering same store sales increases in the high single-digit range on an apples-to-apples event-to-date basis through the end of July.
This sale event which drives significant volume for us started 1 week later relative to last year causing 1 week of the sale to fall into our fiscal third quarter.
As a result the event shift drove an unfavorable comparison for the second quarter but is expected to have a favorable impact to the third quarter comparisons.
Taking that into consideration we are pleased with our second quarter financial results which exceeded our expectations.
Our performance reflected strong top line results with earnings per diluted share of $0.75 compared to $0.80 last year.
Next I'd like to focus on sales.
With 11 consecutive quarters of same-store sales increases our sales performance continues to exceed expectations.
Total net sales in the quarter increased 7% while same-store sales increased 4.5%.
Nordstrom same-store sales which include our full-line and Direct businesses were up 4.9% with Handbags Women's Shoes and Cosmetics as our top-performing merchandise categories.
Same-store sales at full-line increased 1.1% with the South and Midwest as our top-performing regions.
Direct continues to be our fastest-growing channel with sales growth of 40% over last year.
With 6 doors open to date this year Nordstrom Rack delivered a total net sales increase of 19% and same-store sales increase of 7.7%.
Let's now move on to gross profit.
Second quarter gross profit as a percentage of net sales decreased 98 basis points over last year to 35.6%.
The decrease is primarily attributable to a combination of planned deleverage in buying and occupancy expenses resulting from the Anniversary Sale event shift and strategic growth initiatives including our enhanced Fashion Rewards program and free online shipping and returns.
We launched our enhanced Fashion Rewards program earlier this year and have been pleased with the favorable response which is indicative of our efforts to develop new customer relationships and deepen existing ones.
In the first half of 2012 new accounts grew by over 20% on top of last year's 66%.
Additionally our rewards customers are spending roughly 20% more with us relative to last year and we continue to see increases in the overall penetration rate on our cards.
Now I'd like to discuss our inventory performance.
Total sales per square foot increased 4.5% while our ending inventory per square foot increased 17.7%.
Our elevated inventory levels largely reflected a planned buildup of inventory related to the second week of the Anniversary Sale which shifted into August.
In addition a portion of the inventory increase is a function of our growth initiatives including the expansion of our Rack business.
As a result our inventory turn of 5.3x was down from Q2 of 2011 but we are on track to meet or exceed our all-time high in inventory turn achieved in each of the last 2 years.
The percentage of regular price sales continued to increase relative to last year which reflects our customers continuing preference for newness and the ongoing benefits from our multichannel capabilities.
Now I'd like to review our expense performance.
Retail SG&amp;A expense as a percentage of net sales increased 61 basis points over last year.
The increase was driven by higher planned fulfillment costs associated with increased speed of delivery and increased planned technology costs related to the acceleration of our e-commerce investments which began in the latter half of 2011.
As Blake mentioned these investments support our ongoing efforts to enhance the overall customer experience through our e-commerce capabilities expanded product selection and improved convenience.
Consistent with the first quarter our in-store business delivered incremental profits on incremental sales that are in line with our recent historical performance.
Moving to credit.
We continue to see improving trends in our credit metrics.
Our delinquency rate improved to 1.9% of receivables versus 2.7% last year.
We ended the quarter with bad debt reserves as a percent of ending credit card receivables of 4.6% down from 5.6% last year.
Our financial position remains strong with $1.3 billion of cash and total liquidity of $2.1 billion.
Our adjusted debt to EBITDAR of 2.2X is well within the range of investment grade.
During the quarter we repurchased 7.5 million shares at an average price of approximately $49.50 for a total of $373 million.
We have $696 million remaining under our existing authorization.
Now I will discuss our updated outlook for 2012 which factors in the year-to-date performance and our plans for the second half of the year.
Due to the impact of the Anniversary Sale event shift we provided directional comments in the earnings release on the timing of certain line items over the remaining quarters of 2012.
We increased our expectations to achieve 2012 earnings per diluted share of between $3.40 to $3.50 including a benefit of $0.08 from year-to-date share repurchases.
In addition we raised our full year same-store sales guidance to between 6% and 7%.
Our updated gross profit outlook incorporates our current view of the impact of multiple growth initiatives underway across all channels.
The increase in our SG&amp;A guidance also is a function of growth in our business with higher sales volume causing increased variable expenses.
Consistent with what we shared last quarter we expect to see improvements in expense leverage in the back half of the year as we begin to anniversary some of our existing strategic growth initiatives.
In closing our focus on enhancing the customer experience is delivering strong growth and increasing market share.
As we look ahead to the second half of the year and beyond we are excited about the opportunities we see and the expanded ways to serve our customers.
We are on track with achieving our long-term financial goals of high single-digit top line growth and mid-teens return on invested capital.
With that I'll turn the call over to Rob.
Thank you Mike.
[Operator Instructions] Now let's take the first question.
Our first question today is from Deborah Weinswig from Citi.
Research Division</strong> I was very impressed with the Rack strategy through 2016.
Can you just talk about if there's any change in terms of the real estate perspective? And how should we think about owned versus leased and what is with strip mall versus outlet? Give any color you can provide will be very helpful.
Deborah this is Blake.
I think we've shared in the past that our customers really prefer a convenient parking easy in and out.
So being in a strip mall type environment with attractive co-tenancies has really served us well and we have not done many in terms of the traditional kind of outlet mall.
We've done a couple and we have found that they are not quite as productive.
One of the questions we had a while back as we accelerated growth was the availability of real estate.
And to date we've been very pleased with our ability to find good locations in many cases near our full-line stores.
And so for the foreseeable future on the plans that we announced we feel really good about our prospects of finding that necessary real estate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then what could you learn from the early access to the Anniversary Sale online? Erik? Could you take that please? Sure.
Well what we learned that we weren't great at planning it.
It's being able the first year we planned a little more shift than what actually occurred online.
We know from other times of the year that our customers like to shop the channels on their terms.
So we knew that it would be a positive overall net positive but -- quite a bit of a challenge another piece of complexity as far as how much are planning for the stores and online.
But besides that it was pretty seamless.
We had slight technical glitch the first day from the increase in traffic.
Being that again anytime we do something really big for the first time online it's hard to get a practice run on that.
So there's a little learning technology-wise.
But from a customer response it worked very well.
People appreciated the alternative.
But there's also something with Anniversary Sale with the vast majority of our customers like coming in the store and seeing the full selection touching it and feeling the energy in our stores.
Deborah this is Mike.
I would just add one other thing.
From a Fashion Rewards perspective we continue to gain a lot of new Fashion Rewards customers through the early access program and the additional benefits and that should help to play out over time as we continue to build that base.
Yes it's a good point.
I heard -- I don't know Mike said as you think about early access I'd ask you to think about it in 2 ways.
One is certainly what it does for the Anniversary Sale in that time period defined time period.
But for what the second part -- and really is bigger.
It's one of the best examples we have of the strategic benefit we have from owning our own credit card.
Early Access is one of the most attractive benefit to our Fashion Rewards program and it really is a big driver that's opening new Fashion Rewards accounts all through the year and gearing up for the Anniversary Sale.
So we feel those benefits of significantly more Fashion Rewards account all throughout the year and not just stamp the Anniversary Sale.
Our next question is from Dorothy Lakner from Caris &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about Women's apparel.
You've brought or put in place a new GMM.
You have a plan in place I believe that you want to execute.
I just wondered if you could give us a little bit more color on your progress there.
You seem to see -- two have seen a little bit of a pickup during anniversary realized it's very early days but if you could just give us a little bit more color on what your plans are there.
Sure.
This is Pete.
We've put a new leader in place so it's been probably about 60 days or so we'll go now.
And it's an internal candidate her name is Tricia Smith.
She's been with us for the last 22 years I think quite some time.
She's a proven leader around here with a great track record of success.
She was always a really good candidate.
We kind of took our time because we wanted to really thoroughly vet outside Canada and we felt like we did that.
And after weighing all those choices we ended going with Tricia.
And I think the benefit we get is that she was really able to start right away and get traction very quickly.
There was no real learning curve there because she was incidentally familiar with all the issues we've been going through.
I actually believe in this timeframe that we have that we were able to get traction very quickly in this transition and not have to wait.
So you're right the business has actually improved in Women's.
And I think the wave of an emotion on that for a while.
In July actually our Women's business as a division finished above the average of the multi-channel.
So it's positive for us and I think we're going to continue to evolve our merchandise offering and we keep saying these words be more modern and more relevant.
And that seems to be the most appealing recipe for a broad segment of our customers.
Our next question is from Charles Grom from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Mike could you just speak to the change in your retail SG&amp;A leverage assumption in the second half? I think you guys were guiding 70 to 90 bps of leverage and now you're saying kind of 60 to 70 basis points.
Is it just a function of variable expenses associated with higher sales or are you guys increasing your tax spend can you just clarify that for us? No -- yes Chuck.
This is Mike.
No the only difference is the fact that there's -- it is top line growth related.
It's all volume and growth related.
Our plans in terms of the initiatives we have in place are consistent with what they've been the last several quarters.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then my follow-up will be just given the strength in July and the Anniversary Sale should we still expect August comps to be up mid-teens or was there more of a pull-forward effect in July that could dampen that August comp? If you could just clarify that for us it would be great.
Well we haven't guided comps on a monthly basis.
But you should expect to be -- comps to perform higher than last year because of the shift into August -- of the Anniversary Sale into August.
Our next question is from Edward Yruma from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> I think earlier this year you have provided kind of a chart that diagrammed your thought around return on invested capital and margins.
How does that change now that you've decided to accelerate Rack openings in 2013? This is Mike.
Really nothing has changed materially.
The Rack has a little bit different geography in terms of its financial performance and that's a  -- that the gross profit is lower but SG&amp;A is also lower but the EBIT margin tend to be slightly better than full line.
And the return on capital is very strong.
So I think if you look at it relative to the entire enterprise it's not a material impact to those line items.
But certainly if you look at the overall growth opportunity to the company it is.
Research Division</strong> Great and one follow-up if I may.
For the stores that you've changed and added mobile POS to a Rack locations what have you done with the incremental space that you freed up and how does that change your square footage profile going forward? Edward this is Blake.
Today we haven't done anything material on the space.
But it's a good question because that is one of the factors and determinants to embrace and also on adopting this mobile point-of-sale because we think we do have the opportunity to free up some space and reduce the amount of register we have at the front.
So whether that's flex space or add to our accessory division it provides more selling square footage on the floor and so it's one of the additional benefits.
But it's driven with trying to improve the customer experience the point-of-sale and reducing the lines and a more one-on-one experience and the byproduct as we might free up some space.
And so we hope the balance of this year to start implementing that.
Our next question is from Jennifer Black from Jennifer Black &amp; Associates.
Research Division</strong> I've wondered if you could talk about the results of the 2 e-mail blasts that were sent with the secret rewards card to your HauteLook and the Nordstrom non-cardholders and I wondered if you received the response that you were looking for? Jennifer this is Mike.
Yes we did try that as a test this time.
And the response was I would say relatively in line with what we've thought but it wasn't I would say a significant impact to our business.
But it's all part of our learning and testing new marketing techniques with our multiple channels.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And I have a follow-up.
I wanted to know if you had more full priced merchandise on the floor during anniversary because it looked like you did.
And did your customer purchase more full priced merchandise that being non-Anniversary merchandise items during the sale when double points started.
Yes this is Pete.
It's a good question.
Yes I think our results would bear out that we did well with the full price offering.
But I think probably the best story there is our sell-through on the anniversary product was up significantly over last year and that bodes really well for our profitability going forward as we can kind of clear through that.
So we exceeded our plans as you look at it through the end of July and what we accomplished to the sale there.
But I -- typically or basically sales look well for us when we can establish a good balance and I would say that what happened here for the sale again through July definitely was in line and exceeded our expectations.
Our next question is from Erika Maschmeyer from Baird.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk about how you've aligned your processes and teams to align the buying personnel across HauteLook Rack and full-line? Kind of how long have they been working together and how much more opportunity do you think there is here to really leverage your various channels? And also along with that could you please share HauteLook's sales increase? Sure.
Erika this is Mike.
We've made some pretty good progress this year in terms of number one just understanding the opportunity across our various channel to better lever our relationships in the market.
And it's not only been HauteLook with Rack but it's also been HauteLook Rack and full-line.
And our ability to understand the great relationships we have with some good brands and being able to provide various channels to sell their product through at different stages of their life cycle.
So we're making good progress there.
We have a lot to go.
It's a lot of work and it requires a lot of coordination.
But some of the early results of that have been very good.
So we're going to continue to work on that going forward.
In terms of where we are with sales we still anticipate a 50% to 60% sales increase with HauteLook this year over last year.
The business continues to be operating at or slightly above its plan and we continue to be encouraged.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And then could you just please clarify you mentioned that multiple investments will impact gross margin in the back half of the year.
I believe before you'd talked about kind of near flat down 10 to up 10 basis points.
Could you share a little bit more here about what changed? Sure Erika.
And it's on the gross profit line just to be clear about that.
It's a continuation.
We've had a stronger I would say stickiness to our Fashion Rewards program and a number of those benefits get reflected in gross profit.
So we're seeing a stronger uptake there.
We continue to see the free returns the free shipping and free returns slightly impact that line.
And then certainly with the growth of the Rack which is growing at a faster pace than full line that line item tends to average down a little bit because the gross profit Rack is slightly lower.
Our next question is from Adrianne Shapira from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Mike I just had a few questions.
First on the Early Access on the Fashion Rewards.
Obviously some learnings but great success.
And I'm just wondering how you're thinking about perhaps in taking those learnings and introducing that Early Access in other future events maybe during the holiday season or other times in the year? Adrianne at this point we don't have any plans for Early Access for our other major events.
As you know our only 2 other major events are Half Yearly clearance sales.
We do offer double points for those.
But at this point we haven't looked at Early Access.
I would say Adrianne this is Blake.
I think we look at it throughout the year just in total of the subject of loyalty.
And Early Access was one way for us to connect better with our customers and provide meaningful value for them.
And we're looking throughout the year to do that and there's lots of ways to do that.
So we're encouraged by it.
But as Mike said I don't see us replicating that Early Access how we can execute it in other times during the year.
But there is learnings with having a good relationship with the customer and how we in a personalized way can serve them.
Yes and in many ways the Early Access online was the progression of how that sale has functioned.
In the past we did it by folks just coming in the store.
And over the years we've made that process more efficient.
And now -- and with the continued emergence of online as relevant channel it kind of played very well into that.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then my second question Mike as it relates to inventory we appreciate the explanation in terms of the inventory growth.
But now as we think about Rack assuming an accelerated run rate of growth how do we think about inventory plans and how are you striking that and what sort -- what should we be thinking about sort of as a normal run rate given the higher comp and also the higher Rack growth? Well as we've said in the past we don't give guidance on the inventory.
But I will say that certainly you'll see that moderate toward the back half of the year as just from the fact that the anniversary had a significant impact on that growth in the second quarter.
But particularly with the Rack where we've been more aggressive in our channels and procuring products and we're growing that you're likely going to see that a little faster than the average for the near term.
Our next question is from Lorraine Hutchinson from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask about the CapEx implications for the new Rack openings for next year and then also any updated thoughts on use of free cash flow after the CapEx? Sure Lorraine.
This is Mike.
In terms of the Rack impact quite frankly it's relatively immaterial to the CapEx.
Those stores are primarily all leased stores and the FF and the build-out is relatively small.
And so in terms of some of the flexibility we have in CapEx it's really not going to impact that at all.
I'm sorry the second part? Research Division</strong> Any update on uses of free cash flow? Oh Yes.
I would say Lorraine it's still very consistent.
We try to maintain a balanced capital allocation program based on number one putting our investment back into the business where we continue to get some very high returns and balancing that with returning the shareholders through our dividend program and through our share repurchase.
And as you can see this past quarter we had a pretty advantageous periods we repurchase shares and we took advantage of that.
Our next question is from Barbara Wyckoff from CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about the percentage of cross shopping between Rack and Nordstrom? Update us on that.
Full-line stores what about cross shopping between Rack and HauteLook? And another question on HauteLook.
At what point do we think about HauteLook becoming accretive? Will that happen at Christmas time this year or fourth quarter or next year or what? So Barbara this is Blake.
We've shared in the past that there is some synergy there is synergy that we value and the customer values between the full-line stores and the Rack.
We've never broken out a specific number that we are able to approximate it.
It's not the majority of the business it's considerably less than that.
But there is the customer that goes back and forth that likes both shopping environments and there are opportunities for us as a company to again in a personalized way whether through our loyalty and other manners communication their vehicles create a meaningful connection for the various channels that we have.
There's also relationships with HauteLook that you talked about as well.
And so I think as Mike said earlier we're on a pretty steep learning curve there.
We're finding on how to use these tools how to work more closely with these customers and how to leverage and maximize the various channels we have.
We think it definitely is an advantage.
Our customers certainly view it that way and we're excited over the next couple of years to try to maximize that.
Barbara as far as the second part of your question as far as the accretive impact of HauteLook we expect HauteLook this year to approach the breakeven level.
And I don't think you're going to see the accretive this year and our plans going forward certainly we would expect that at some point in time.
Our next question is from Kimberly Greenberger from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I'm wondering if you can look into the second half of the year and let us know what the comp rate needed would be in order to keep the SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales flat.
In other words what's your leverage point? And then looking at credit earnings here it looks like in both the second quarter and the year-to-date period credit income or rather the credit earnings number is running a bit below last year level.
Do you think that continues into the second half of the year? And maybe you could just talk about some of the drivers there.
Sure Kimberly.
This is Mike.
In terms of the first part of your question I mean we are levering SG&amp;A in the back half of the year.
In terms of the break even we really haven't broken that out.
But I think if you look at the path of the business and look at the top line growth and the fact that we are starting to anniversary some of that acceleration of spent last year we are seeing some leverage.
In terms of the second part of your question there were 2 basic drivers as to why the credit business was down.
The largest one is that we had the Fashion Rewards component that's included in the credit business and that was the biggest increase because we continue to see a very strong uptake in terms of new customers and in terms of utilization of benefit.
And then also because the company had taken on more debt over last year we did see an increase in the allocation of interest expense to that business.
The other thing you're also seeing is that last year we had larger reductions in the reserve than we had this year.
And so that's having an impact as well.
So those are the drivers.
But in terms of the overall health of the credit business in terms of the traditional credit metrics it continues to be very strong.
Our next question is from Paul Swinand from MorningStar.
Research Division</strong> I guess I'm thinking about the Rack I know you've shared the strong return metrics for it and obviously the increased growth is interesting exciting.
But with all the off-price channels being up can you give us some comfort or any indication analysis that you've had that you can go -- that it's a differentiated product.
I guess I'm just worried about to sort of skating to where the puck is now versus where it's going to be.
Maybe you could talk about how the Rack performs versus when other off-price competitors are in the area.
I'm not sure how to frame the question but can you give us some cover that it's as differentiated as the Nordstrom full-line stores? Well Paul this is Blake.
And I think you're asking a question.
But we do believe there is differentiation though I don't think we approach it or try to execute it in the sake of differentiation.
But there is a different experience within our Rack than there is whether that be HauteLook or catalogs or full-line stores.
We have said though that there is a synergy.
The Rack just like the full-line stores benefits from a strong and vibrant retail community.
So if we are neighbors next to strong competitors the customer ultimately wins.
But there's a strong selection there and we have a good results.
So just like the full-line stores we aspire to be in the absolute best retail locations across the country.
The real driver there is our ability to -- there's issues like people and we talked about real estate and supply chain but product having the best product and having the best brands and the right trends and tremendous values and so has been alluded to during to this call our ability to work with our vendor partners and really talk to them about being accretive and being positive to their brand and reputation across all channels and do we have an opportunity to maybe get access or first call on that product.
And so as we've gotten a little larger it's actually benefited us to be able to at times when there is closeouts take all the merchandise.
And so it's gotten better as we've gotten larger.
And really when we look at the top vendors within full-line stores we currently carry 49 out of the 50 top vendors in the full-line stores in our Rack.
And at this moment in time we're encouraged.
The last part is there's tremendous flexibility with the Rack.
So as we announced I talked about this growth if for some reason down the road we run into some hurdles real estate people IT but predominantly merchandise availability we can pretty quickly back off.
But right now given the strong consumer demand given our results given the gains we're making into our execution with the Rack we definitely have the confidence to take this next step.
And I would add just one other thing because I think Blake is probably a little bit humble to say this.
But I think with our Rack stores we certainly have the differentiation of the credibility of the Nordstrom brand.
And so everything we're doing to improve the customer experience helps us differentiate the Rack experience from other off-price and I think more recent example is the mobile POS in our ability to move brands from full-line into the Rack.
So I think those are points that help us as we continue to grow.
Our next question is from Liz Dunn from Macquarie.
In terms of the Rack I'm sorry I don't mean to beat a dead horse.
Have you done any research that sort of tells you what your core customers' viewpoint of the brand is and how that's changed at all with the growth in the Rack? And as we see that business grow will you see the -- I'm assuming you'll see the amount of transfers kind of get down to below 10%.
Does that impact the customers experience in that channel at all? And then finally on the Rack it seems as though this growth is really highly scalable.
There isn't like a bunch of new people or processes that you'll need to add in order to fund this growth.
This is Blake.
I think there were a couple of questions in there.
You might -- I was writing them down.
You might have to help me on the first one again.
Could you summarize that first one again? I'm just looking for -- does the presence of Rack out there in the marketplace damage at all the impression that your full-line customer has about your brand? Right thank you.
And that reminds me now that you did talk about what work that maybe we did or we learn from our customer and their view about it.
That was really the impetus prior to the economic downturn in '08 where we were working in '06 in '07 about growing it.
And we have purposely put more of our focus on the full-line stores and they kind of have some restraint on Rack growth.
And there was such an outpouring of demand or desire from the customer to have more selection more choices more locations that we picked up this growth.
And with that it's been very very favorable.
It has far exceeded our expectations.
Trust us that we are very sensitive to the Nordstrom brand and the core business the full-line stores.
Today we think it's been very complementary and we think it has benefited the company as a whole.
So I think it's fair to say as a management team that it is a very important subject for us and one that we put considerable thought and energy behind it.
And that's why we feel strong at this point and why maybe we've taken some time because some of your peers have asked us in the past why don't you accelerate this growth? And so I think we've been very purposeful about it and will continue to monitor that.
But at this point the customers very favorably.
Your last comment was about the balance of merchandise.
And yes as we accelerate that growth it lessens to a degree the amount from full-line stores.
But I would remind you that we have a very robust e-commerce business.
So even with this accelerated Rack growth if we look at it in total from a multi-channel point of view it really is a materially changing much from a percentage point of view the amount of goods we get from both online and the full-line stores.
So we're very comfortable with those balances at this point.
Our next question is from Alex Fuhrman from Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask a little about the mobile check out devices that you're rolling out to Rack and specifically also you talked about adding some functionality to the hardware I think at your full-line stores as well.
What is the increased functionality we should expect to see rolled out? And I guess the hardware you have on these devices how many years of extra functionality add-ons do you think that can support? Well in terms of the full-line stores Erik do you want to talk about what's happening there? Yes.
I believe we're up over 75% of our fixed POS capability is now on to our mobile device.
And by end of the year we'll get 100%.
And as we get into next year we'll actually have -- we'll have more functionality on the mobile devices than we have on the registers.
We've added a lot this year things like return capabilities.
There's some personal book capabilities that still need to be added so that will get us to the 100%.
The mobile device -- I think you asked it this way they're fairly different the benefits and the usage in the full-line stores and the Rack.
Full-line stores there's a lot more functionality that we look to have on them.
And while there is certainly some speed and convenience benefits there is more of the benefits of that one-to-one personal interaction between the salesperson and the customer.
It can happen -- it doesn't happen at the counter with other people around.
It can happen in the dressing room it can happen at the shoe store.
And all that functionality is going to be around our personal book features and being able to more personalize our connection with the customers.
For the Rack it's a little easier to understand and draw the direct line benefits.
It's speed.
It just makes that line significantly shorter.
And as Blake touched on earlier there is that space-saving of taking prime real estate at Rack when we have to checkout counters and being able to reduce those.
The benefits are clear we can -- and the functionality is there right now.
So we can be much more aggressive in rolling out the mobile POS devices in the Rack.
But full-line stores the rollout is -- it coincides with the increase in functionality.
And our final question today is from Dana Telsey from Telsey Advisory Group.
A lot of discussions around obviously growth and partnerships.
How do you see the partnerships going forward contributing to sales and margin expansion? And what are the categories would appeal to you in terms of a partnership? And just lastly on Christmas anything in terms of planning Christmas this year whether it's days inventory plans how it will be different from last year? Yes this is Pete I'll take the partnership thing.
To date that's all worked on a very kind of organic way.
It's not like we've set out to go -- get into these partnerships.
They've just evolved in a very natural way which I think has been the reason why they have been successful.
We typically gone for things that are probably smaller with a chance of getting bigger over time which is probably good thing too.
I would say the latest partnership deal we have with Topshop is a big one potentially for us.
And that came up relatively organically it happened very quickly.
The folks at Topshop have been great to work with.
I think they see where the mutual opportunity is and was easy to get along.
So we're super excited about that one and we think that we're going to learn a lot here in the next few months and we have a chance to expand this really throughout maybe all our stores.
So I think we'll continue to look at things that are opportunistic for us.
And in the case of Topshop deal specifically and was similar when we got involved with Jeffrey is it was taking a product opportunity and using a brand like that that can help make us better.
And with the Topshop example they are highly credible and super well-regarded amongst young fashion customers and we had a chance to get a line with them in a way exclusive in this country and frankly got us -- it is going to act as a catalyst for us to again make our offer more modern and more relevant.
So it's a good deal for us.
Dana this is Mike.
And the second part of your question regarding Christmas.
We haven't made any material changes to our plans or outlook.
Every year the calendar shifts but it seems like every year people still buy.
They may buy more in fewer days or less in more dates but they still buy.
And at this point in time that's how we're thinking about it.
This is Rob Campbell.
Thank you for joining us today for our second quarter earnings call.
As a reminder a webcast replay of this call will be available for 1 year on the Investor Relations section of nordstrom.com under webcast.
Thank you for your interest in Nordstrom.
Goodbye.
Thank you and this does conclude today's conference.
You may disconnect at this time.
Hello and welcome to the Nordstrom 2012 Third Quarter Conference Call.
At the request of Nordstrom today's conference call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] And I would now introduce Rob Campbell Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations for Nordstrom.
You may begin sir.
Hello everyone.
Thank you for joining us for the Nordstrom conference call.
Today's call is expected to be 45 minutes and will include about 30 minutes for questions.
As a reminder all forward-looking statements on this call are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from the expectations and assumptions discussed due to a variety of factors that affect the company including the risks specified in the company's most recently filed Forms 10-K and 10-Q.
Participating in today's call are Blake Nordstrom President of Nordstrom Inc.; and Mike Koppel Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer who will discuss the company's third quarter performance and outlook for fiscal 2012.
During the Q&amp;A session we will be joined by Pete Nordstrom President of Merchandising; Erik Nordstrom President of Stores; and Jamie Nordstrom President of Direct.
Before we begin I want to mention that we again will provide slides during our earnings call to help summarize and frame our performance.
These slides can be viewed in the Investor Relations section of our website.
If you are listening to this conference call as a webcast you should already see the Title Slide.
If you're listening by telephone you can view the slides by going to http//investor.com nordstrom.com (sic) [http://investor.nordstrom.com]  And now I'll introduce Blake Nordstrom.
Thank you Rob and good afternoon everyone.
As we begin we recognize that a number of you along with many of our employees customers and millions of others have been impacted by Hurricane Sandy.
Our thoughts go out to all of those who have suffered and those still dealing with the effects of the storm.
While we know it takes time it's heartening to see how the communities in the Northeast are beginning to rebuild.
We'd like to transition into providing an update on our progress for the quarter and how we're making headway with various growth initiatives.
As Rob mentioned we have some slides available for you to follow along with our comments.
We are encouraged with our progress to date and how the customer is responding as reflected in our top line performance with 12 consecutive quarters of same-store sales increases.
We are experiencing continued strength across all areas of our business.
As a company we aspire to continually improve the customer experience.
There's no finish line when it comes to this subject as our customers have access to a growing number of choices with expectations increasingly centered on speed and convenience.
Their expanding view of service and our desire to increase our relevance with existing and new customers are creating multiple growth opportunities whether in stores or through technology.
Just as we're striving to provide a differentiated experience in our stores we're also working to achieve this in e-commerce.
Speed selection and convenience are critical to delivering a best-in-class online experience.
Our Direct business continues to drive outside sales growth achieving an impressive increase of 38% this quarter on top of last year's third quarter 33% growth.
It's encouraging that the third quarter increase was achieved while going up against last year's launch at the end of August of free shipping and returns online.
We believe that the continued strength in e-commerce reflects the investments we are making to expand our capabilities.
In September we announced 2 full-line store openings in 2014 at St.
Johns Town Center in Jacksonville and a second store at Woodlands Mall in the Houston area.
We are also excited about our recently announced expansion into Canada.
Our initial plan is to open 4 full-line stores in the Calgary Ottawa Vancouver and Toronto markets.
Canada represents a terrific growth opportunity as a potential to someday have 7 to 9 full-line stores as well as a number of Racks.
At the Rack we delivered an 18% increase in total Rack sales on a year-to-date basis.
During the third quarter same-store sales grew 8.1% marking the highest increase since 2007.
We successfully opened 7 Rack stores in the third quarter.
Today we opened our doors at 2 more Racks in Warwick Rhode Island and in Seattle bringing our total to 15 new stores and 3 relocations for the year.
We recently shared with you our plans to accelerate our Rack openings and we are on track to go from 119 stores today to over 230 stores by 2016.
Underlying this growth is our belief in the ability to increase market share and leverage our strong operating model to procure the best product and expand into both existing and new markets.
In addition during the quarter we successfully rolled out mobile point-of-sale devices to all of our Rack stores.
Our Rack team's execution is a great example of how we can elevate the service experience by reducing lines and improving speed at checkout which in turn will drive incremental volume.
We continue to focus on increasing relevance with existing and new customers.
We know that newness is important to our customers.
In September we began carrying merchandise from Topshop in 14 of our stores as well as online.
We are encouraged with the early response from customers.
We're learning a lot and our partnership with Topshop is one way we can provide new on-trend fashion at accessible prices.
In closing our overarching goal is to improve the customer experience.
It's providing us with multiple growth opportunities locations channels convenience speed delivery and we are encouraged by the progress we're making.
Now I'll turn over the call to Mike.
Thanks Blake.
Our focus on delivering a differentiated experience to our customer continues to create multiple growth opportunities from strengthening our service and product offering to capturing additional growth through e-commerce store expansion and new markets.
We remain committed to executing a disciplined measured growth strategy and driving long-term shareholder value.
While our business model evolves consistent with our desire to be the retailer of choice across all channels we believe it will continue to deliver sustainable growth and high returns.
Now I'd like to review our third quarter financial results.
As a reminder our third quarter results reflected the shift of our Anniversary Sale event which created a favorable comparison to this quarter and an unfavorable comparison in the second quarter.
As a result we expected to see earnings accelerate in the third quarter relative to the first half of the year.
For the third quarter our earnings per diluted share of $0.71 increased 20% compared to the same period in 2011.
Earnings before interest and income taxes or EBIT totaled $277 million which was an increase of 15% over last year.
Next I'd like to discuss sales.
The strength in our third quarter sales performance was broad-based across all channels and multiple merchandise categories.
Total net sales in the quarter increased 14% and same-store sales increased 10.7%.
Same-store sales for the combined second and third quarters increased 7.3% which removes the impact of the Anniversary Sale event shift.
Nordstrom same-store sales which consist of our full-line and direct businesses were up 11.2% with men's shoes men's apparel and kids' apparel as our top-performing merchandise categories.
We are also encouraged with the recent sales increase in women's apparel which outperformed the multi-channel average this quarter for the first time in recent history.
Same-store sales at full-line increased 8.1% with the Midwest and Northwest as our top-performing regions.
Direct continues to be our fastest-growing channel driving sales growth of 38% on top of last year's 33% increase.
Nordstrom Rack continues to achieve strong top line growth with same-store sales of 8.1% and total sales of 16.3%.
Now I'd like to discuss our gross profit performance.
Third quarter gross profit as a percentage of net sales decreased 37 basis points over last year to 36.2%.
The decrease was primarily due to increased benefits related to our enhanced Fashion Rewards program.
This program plays an important part in building customer loyalty as our Fashion Rewards members shop more frequently and spend more with us than non-members.
With the launch of our enhanced program earlier this year we have been pleased with our customer response as reflected by increases in new accounts rewards spend and Nordstrom card penetration compared with last year.
To date we have 3.1 million active members in the program which represented a 22% increase over last year.
Let's move on to inventory.
Total sales per square foot increased 10.8% reflecting the shift in the Anniversary Sale.
When removing the impact of the shift the increase in total sales per square foot was in line with our ending inventory per square foot increase of 7.4%.
For the 12th consecutive quarter the percentage of regular price sales increased relative to last year which reflects our customers' continuing preference for newness and the ongoing benefits from our multichannel capabilities.
Our inventory turn of 5.1x was slightly down from last year reflecting Rack's growth.
Next I'd like to discuss our expense performance.
As expected we experienced improvements in expense leverage in the third quarter.
Retail SG&amp;A expense as a percentage of net sales decreased 30 basis points over last year to 27.9%.
The leverage achieved was slightly lower than anticipated impacted by a timing shift of expenses from the fourth quarter into the third quarter.
When we look at our store business we continue to deliver incremental profits on incremental sales that are in line with recent historical performance.
Moving on to Credit.
We continue to see improving trends in our credit metrics.
Our deliquency rate improved to 2.1% of receivables versus 2.8% last year.
We ended the quarter with bad debt reserves as a percent of ending credit card receivables of 4.5% down from 6.2% last year.
Based on the overall performance of the credit portfolio we reduced our reserve for bad debt by $10 million.
We will continue to monitor credit trends to ensure we are appropriately reserved.
Our financial position remains strong with $1.2 billion of cash and liquidity of $2 billion.
Our adjusted debt to EBITDA of 2.1x is well within the range of investment grade.
During the quarter we repurchased 1.5 million shares at an average price of approximately $55 for a total of $85 million.
We have $612 million remaining under our existing authorization.
Now I will discuss our updated outlook for 2012 factoring in our year-to-date performance.
We are updating our expectations to achieve 2012 earnings per diluted share of between $3.45 and $3.50 from $3.40 to $3.50.
In addition our full-year same-store sales guidance is between 6.5% to 7% from 6% to 7%.
While this guidance considers the impacts of Hurricane Sandy there remains uncertainty and we will continue to monitor trends in the affected areas.
Our updated gross profit outlook is consistent with prior guidance reflecting the impact of multiple growth initiatives under way.
We anticipate retail SG&amp;A to be $340 million to $355 million higher than last year.
This falls within the high end of the range we previously shared and results in meaningful improvement in expense leverage for the fourth quarter.
In closing we continue to be encouraged with the momentum in our business.
As we begin the fourth quarter we remain confident in our ability to elevate the customer experience through the execution of our growth initiatives.
Based on our progress to-date we are on track to achieve our long-term financial goals of high single-digit sales growth and mid-teens return on invested capital.
With that I'll turn the call over to Rob.
Thank you Mike.
[Operator Instructions] With that we'll take the first question.
And our first question today is from Deborah Weinswig from Citi.
Research Division</strong> As we think about the holiday season as you guys are moving to more mobile POS how will that impact labor? And especially in the Rack stores does that give you the opportunity to bring in more merchandise? This is Erik.
Deborah can you repeat that? I missed part of it.
Research Division</strong> As we think about the holiday season and as you're doing more with mobile POS how does that impact your labor? And in the Rack stores does that give you an opportunity to bring in more merchandise as well? Oh yes.
For the full-line stores the mobile POS really hasn't affected our labor one way or the other.
It's been neutral on that.
For the Racks to your point it does free up space.
Because as we're able to replace fixed registers that come with counters with mobile POS devices we have the centralized checkouts upfront.
We're actually able to pick up selling space right at the front of the store.
So that's definitely a positive for us.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then secondly I was wondering if you could provide metrics around the Fashion Rewards customers? Because obviously it sounds like it significantly helped you drive some business around events but also drive additional traffic not only online but in stores as well.
Sure.
Deborah this is Mike.
As I noted in my comments our total active Fashion Rewards customers is up 22% this year.
We continue to see those customers outspend those that aren't part of the program and continue to see high growth particularly in new accounts and debit card and in new customers that are shopping with us in the Rack.
So I would tell you across all metrics including total increased average spend et cetera we continue to see progress with Fashion Rewards.
Our next question is from Edward Yruma from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> I actually want to ask about the slide that's not in the deck.
The slide from fourth quarter.
I think you had kind of articulated really a vision for improved EBIT margins next year.
Obviously you've announced a number of growth initiatives like doubling Rack store count Canada New York.
How do we think about your longer-term business model as it relates to some of those outlines you've provided earlier this year? Well Ed I think you're referring to that chart that we provided back in February which was designed to be directional in terms of how we saw the company move over a longer period of time.
We're not going to comment specifically about immediate improvement in margins in 2013.
We'll do that in February.
But I do think it's fair to say as we did indicate that we feel that we're right on track with the goals we set out in terms of a high-single-digit sales growth and a mid-teens return on invested capital.
We are still seeing an evolution in the business model and the way it's performing.
And as the Direct business continues to accelerate there are more opportunities there and it is a higher more current expense model than the traditional store model and that is having some impact.
But overall the outcomes of all that are still going to drive similar economics over time.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And one follow-up question.
Obviously a nice improvement in the women's business.
How much of that is due to the new leadership that you have in place? And maybe how much of it is due to initiatives you've had kind of ongoing over the past year or so? This is Pete.
I think Tricia Smith who is our new leader in women's deserves some credit for the improvements we've had but a lot of those initiatives have been in place for quite some time.
I think the biggest thing is just we've had an improved execution across the board and that's probably been the most measurable part of what we've been able to achieve there.
Our ongoing efforts around trying to get better aligned with customers and being more relevant based on their lifestyles and occasions has been something we've been working on for a while and will continue because we still have a lot of progress to make.
Our next question is from Barbara Wyckoff from CLSA.
Research Division</strong> You talked about the growth in the customer rewards program.
But could you talk about what percentage of the sales were made in third quarter with that card and that customer versus last year? Sure.
Well the total penetration of Fashion Rewards is roughly 34% 35% of our total sales.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And last year? It's up from -- I believe it was a low 30 penetration 32-ish.
Our next question is from Jennifer Black from Jennifer Black and Associates.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to know -- I know you talked about Topman and Topshop and I know it's early.
I just wondered when you think you might make decisions about rolling it out? And then I also wondered if you're seeing some differences as far as online purchases with that.
And then I have a follow-up question.
This is Pete.
It's done really well and we've been really pleased with good results from what we've been able to achieve so far and I think we're also pleased with our ability to react quickly and get this thing started from idea to actual execution.
We did that pretty quickly.
So what we're trying to do is be thoughtful about this period of time that we're in.
It's the reason that we took on 14 stores for a specific period of time before we want to make future decisions about how to roll it out in a larger way.
I think it's safe to say we will roll it out in a larger way but we don't have any details for the scope and speed of that right now.
I think that's something that we'll be able to figure out here in the next couple of months.
But it's been very encouraging so far.
And as it relates to online that part of the business has been fantastic.
It's all been very good.
Research Division</strong> So will you expand the assortment then online? Because I know you don't have the full assortment at least I didn't think you did for Topshop and Topman.
Well I think so.
I mean again it's an ongoing situation but it's not dissimilar from any of the rest of the parts of our business.
Where we have a chance to expand our selection online we want to try to do that particularly with brands and categories that are really important to our customers.
Our next next question is from Lorraine Hutchinson from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned regular price selling continuing to improve.
Can you just talk about where you are on that metric versus prior peaks? And any opportunities that you see going forward? This is Mike.
In terms of prior peaks we don't specifically call out that metric.
But it's the highest it's been.
So we've continued to see improvement in our ability to sell at a regular price over time.
And in terms of what the upside is we just keep working hard at it.
And hopefully we continue that and keep our turns high and have the right product.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just the SG&amp;A shift that you mentioned into the fourth quarter.
What was that? And can you quantify the impact? It was SG&amp;A from 4 into 3 and it was primarily related to some marketing costs and some benefit-related cost.
We're not going to specifically quantify it but you'll see the benefit of that in the fourth quarter.
Our next question is from Neely Tamminga from Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Mike following up a little bit on that gross profit question maybe this is for Pete as well.
I mean clearly women's apparel is a nice call out for you guys.
Is this an opportunity to kind of take this very large category up in terms of higher and drive more of that full price selling? And a related question to that would just be what are you seeing from a resource perspective? I mean obviously we've seen you guys mix really interesting and unique investments with Bonobos and Peek in non-women's apparel group.
But are there opportunities within women's apparel where you can kind of do some very interesting sort of investments to kind of flush this out a little bit more? It's Pete.
I would say if the women's business is healthy that's a good thing for our business because it's a large part of our business.
And if done right it can be a good margin part of the business as well.
So I think kind of back to my earlier point about execution there's just a lot of opportunities for us to do it better.
And we've got some pretty good momentum and some good traction now and we're just going to keep going.
And it's definitely a positive indicator for our overall health of our business.
In terms of the resources I guess I want to understand specifically again you were mentioning about opportunities to invest with some -- I'm sorry I didn't get that part.
Why don't you ask that specifically again? Research Division</strong> Sure Pete.
Just -- you guys have made some interesting partnerships with Bonobos and Peek I think is what we've observed out in the marketplace and those are obviously not women's apparels resources.
Are there opportunities within women's apparel some kind of unique investments or partnerships that you can have going forward in women's apparel? Well sure.
I think that there is -- based on the relationships we've been able to forge across all categories.
And so Topshop would be an example of something that's done specifically around women's.
And obviously there's a men's component to that too but the women's has been the bigger component.
We were able to do a partnership with Jason Wu.
We have a line coming out the Miss Wu line which will be unique to us which really came as a result of the relationship we have with them.
So we're trying to be opportunistic about that kind of stuff.
And as those opportunities present themselves we'll pursue them.
Our next question is from Paul Swinand from Morningstar Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about -- everybody's talking about newness and fashion and flow better flow.
You guys are already one of the best in the business with your inventory turns.
As online continues to grow does the centralized inventory allow you to actually flow better? Or does it -- is it more like the stores lead and then you flow to the Internet channel? Is there any dynamic there? Well the multi-channel dynamic is where we actually are buying inventory specifically for online as well as we're buying for store.
And the most efficient way to do that is to place the inventory where the demand is.
And to the extent we've got good information good history we're able to do that relatively well.
But the advantage that we have is when we don't place it perfectly which we never quite do we're able to use the resource of the entire company.
So it all happens in real time across the company.
It's not like one is leading the other.
Research Division</strong> So it's kind of like one time it might flow faster to the stores and then you react another time and you might be faster online? It's a bit of a balancing act.
I think with how fast the online part of our business has grown that's where we've been trying to catch up a little bit.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So maybe in the future your reaction time will shorten online? Well again I don't think that quite characterizes it right.
That's one leading the other.
It's all kind of happening in exact real time.
We have complete real-time view of the inventory across the entire company regardless of what channel it's in.
Our next question is from Paul Lejuez from Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on an earlier question.
You said rewards new rewards customers outspend those not in the program.
But how do new rewards customers spend relative to existing rewards customers? And is there a typical pattern of how they may start spending in year one versus how they behave throughout the next couple of years once they're in the program? And then just a follow-up on that SG&amp;A shift was that just a -- was that a shift in dollars of where the expense was recorded? Or was there actually a timing shift in how you loaded your marketing doing more in the third quarter as opposed to the fourth quarter? Sure.
Paul this is Mike.
In terms of the rewards we continue to see the average spend of rewards customers improve.
So that's a positive.
In terms of their spend over time certainly the way the program is designed with the various levels it's designed to get people to continue to spend up to achieve the higher rewards at the higher levels.
So that's the way the program is designed.
And this past year we made it more accessible so we could -- so people could feel like they could reach each step with a lower incremental spend.
And we've seen a lot of value with that.
So we continue to learn from it.
We continue to look at opportunities to improve it.
And in terms of the SG&amp;A it was just a question of how the costs were incurred relative to this year and last year.
I don't think there's any really big story there.
I think we called it out only because relative to our plan we expected the expense leverage should be slightly better and we wanted to be transparent about that.
Research Division</strong> Is that the entire reason that you didn't hit your plan? Well we did hit our plan relative to what we expected to do for the third quarter.
I mean the plan that I think -- are you referring to the consensus? Research Division</strong> I thought you just said that you expected it to be better.
I was just wondering how [indiscernible]...
It was just the SG&amp;A leverage.
It was just the SG&amp;A leverage.
Research Division</strong> And can you quantify the drag of what that hit you by? No we're not going to call it out specifically.
You'll see the benefit of that in the fourth quarter.
Our next question is from Matthew Boss from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> On the credit side I wanted to touch on that for a second the bad debt reserve and the performance that you've seen.
What's the best way to think about this going forward as we think about the fourth quarter and more so into next year? Can the credit portfolio continue to perform at this level? And what type of opportunity do we have on the reserve line? Yes.
Well as you know we don't really talk about opportunity as to how much lower the reserve could go because that is just a direct function of the performance of the portfolio.
And to put it into some context our delinquencies are roughly where they were in 2007 prior to the recession and our write-offs are a little higher but they continue to trend down although at a slower pace.
So if we continue to see improvement in those metrics we will follow our methodology and make the appropriate reductions.
But clearly in terms of where we are in the long-term scale and adjustment of the performance we're likely at the tail end of it.
Our next question is from Erika Maschmeyer from Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk about where you're at in the 5-year plan for your IT spend? Are you still aiming for about $140 million this year? And how much does that accelerate into next year? I assume the $140 million you're quoting is the capital spend? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Sorry.
The capital spend for IT.
Sure.
Yes.
Well we actually are in the process right now of reviewing our 5-year capital plan and that includes our technology and the opportunities we see.
So in terms of where we are we continue to see opportunities to invest in technology to improve not only our e-commerce operations but other areas of the business which continue to scale upwards.
So we'll give you a little bit more visibility on that in February after we finish that process.
Research Division</strong> That would be helpful.
And then could you just talk a little bit about some of the prior outperformers? Obviously women's apparel doing better is a very significant thing.
But are you seeing any slowing or any hiccups with accessories shoes women's shoes and cosmetics? Or is it just kind of tough comparison and seeing some acceleration in some of the other categories? This is Pete.
Actually it's -- the different divisions are rather closely bundled together.
We've had a lot of strength as you mentioned in women's and men's apparel but it's not because accessories and shoes has done poorly.
I mean they're still doing really well.
And then particularly if you look at over multiple years we've had really strong increases.
So no that hasn't dropped off really at all for us.
That's continued on a very consistent strong rate for us.
Our next question is from Dorothy Lakner from Caris &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wondered if you could -- just talk a little bit about what -- kind of the way you see the holiday season.
You're perhaps not as big a Black Friday business as some others.
You're not giving away free TVs or anything like that.
So just how do we look at sort of the November December how things kind of play out when you typically see your most traffic? Just an idea of how you see the holiday season kind of laying out.
Okay.
This is Erik.
I think you should view it pretty similar to what our recent history has been.
Last December was one of the best months we've had both online and in our stores over our history.
And it is -- you're right it's not promotionally driven.
The day after Thanksgiving is not as big a day as a proportion to our year as it is for some of our competitors but it's certainly a busy day.
That weekend is busy for us and we get a lot of volume earlier in the month with some of our Fashion Rewards events we have in our stores.
So the whole month is busy.
But there has been somewhat of a trend over the years to where holiday shopping has pushed more closer and closer to Christmas and that week after Christmas has been emerging as a more and more important time.
Many years ago that week after Christmas was almost purely a clearance time.
And now it really is a time -- for us it is of newness.
We get a lot of shoppers who are coming in to buy for themselves and they're not looking for the old stuff marked down.
They're looking for the new stuff and it's been a real healthy season for us.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And also just on November you've got Half-Yearly for women and kids but those events have tended to be kind of more restrained given the great control on inventory that you've had.
I'm assuming that that continues to be the case.
Yes.
It's pretty similar to what we've had over the years.
We have less clearance for Half-Yearlies but more so it's not so much a supply-driven thing as a demand-driven thing.
Our customers are not as interested in the older stuff that we're marking down for clearance as they are in the new stuff.
So more of what's been growing in importance events has been our Fashion Rewards events.
They are our best customers.
And this year one of the enhancements was customers being able to choose their own personal triple point days.
That's something that customers asked us for.
We were excited to be able to offer it.
And it puts them in control and allows them to get these extra bonus points when they want it.
And more and more it's on regular-priced merchandise.
Our next question is from Kimberly Greenberger from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I'm wondering if you can talk about the improvement in your women's business.
How broad-based is that improvement? Is it now trending in line with the rest of the chain? And are you seeing women trade off any other categories in the store in order to spend more on that apparel? This is Pete.
It's actually kind of surprisingly broad-based across literally almost every category we've been doing better and better.
And as Mike mentioned in his comments on this last month we had women's apparel growth of higher than the average which it's been a while since we had that.
So it's outpacing a little bit the other divisions.
Now we have a ways to go so that's a good part about it.
Sorry and the last part of your question was? Research Division</strong> Is that spending on women's apparel coming at the expense of any other categories in the store? No.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my follow-up question for Mike is on the return on capital goal.
It looks like over the last 12 months return on capital has run around 12.9%.
You expressed a great degree of confidence in moving that into the mid-teens.
And I'm wondering what are the metrics that we should be looking for over the next 12 18 24 months that would give us the best indication that that is moving in the right direction.
Is it revenue acceleration beyond what you've delivered? Or is it margin metrics? What are the key levers to move that ROIC up into the mid-teens? Sure.
Well Kimberly thanks for the question.
As always the most important lever is going to be our top line growth.
Because with top line growth everything falls from that.
And so as we said our goal is to continue to achieve a high-single digit top line growth rate and that's the first thing we should pay attention to.
And then the next thing would be our ability to grow earnings dollars.
So if we can continue to generate respective growth in earnings dollars that will contribute to the return on capital.
And then the last thing and you're going to see that return on capital by the end of the year get back into roughly the 14% range and most of the reason for that is that we've had some fairly high cash levels.
And particularly last year it started to build and it's been high this year.
And by the time we lap through the fourth quarter you're going to see that come back up.
Our next question is from Liz Dunn from Macquarie Capital.
I'm curious about the -- and I know it's early but -- how you're thinking about the investments for Canada and for the New York store.
Oftentimes when we see someone enter a major market like this it does come with a fair amount of capital and expense.
Are those things that you think could lead to heavier investment spending than typical? And when would we start to see that investment spending ramp? Sure.
Liz this is Mike.
Well first you're right.
Building particularly in big urban locations is a higher capital commitment than in a traditional mall location.
We should start seeing some of that capital in 2013 particularly some of the arrangements we have as it relates to Manhattan and then some of the beginning of building stores in Canada.
Our expectation is that both of those strategies are going to deliver returns greater than our cost of capital.
They may not be at the same level as a traditional mall store but we do believe we're going to create value and we wouldn't have done them if it was otherwise.
Okay.
And then second question that also relates sort of to investment spending.
I think I heard you say something along the lines of there is no finish line.
Is that how you're thinking about sort of the investments in digital because it is such an evolving space and commitment? Or is there a finish line that you can see a few years out in terms of spending on digital? Yes.
Sure Liz.
Well first I think as a point of clarification I believe the finish line comment was related to our ability to continue to improve in women's apparel versus our investment in digital spending.
But all that being said we continue to see opportunities there.
And to know when the end line I think -- I don't think anybody knows right now.
We're in a period where there's a tremendous amount of change and evolution in the way technology is affecting the customer experience.
And we want to be an exemplar there and we're going to continue to invest to assure that we don't lose that status.
Our next question is from Charles Grom from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Mike just to follow up on Paul's question earlier just trying to understand the relationship here between comps and retail SG&amp;A leverage.
If I recall back in August you guys guided leverage of I think 55 to 75 bps on that high-single digit comp yet you guys only delivered about 29 bps.
So leverage when comps were up 11.1%.
Just trying to understand the delta there.
It looks like maybe 30 basis points to be $8 million to $9 million.
Is that all marketing spend and benefit shift? Primarily.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's not a commission increase.
So it is a shift.
No.
No.
Good job with the math Charles.
Research Division</strong> And then I guess my follow-up would be then therefore your fourth quarter guidance was for a decrease of I believe 45 to 65 basis points on that mid-single digit comp.
And I guess if we hit that comp should we expect the leverage to be greater than that range? If we hit a comp greater than what's implied in the guidance? Research Division</strong> Should the decrease in SG&amp;A be greater than 45 to 65 basis points somewhere in like 65 to 80 basis points because of that shift? If our sales performance is better than what we have in the guidance we should get some leverage.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
What I'm asking though is should the leverage be better just because you've got the shift out of fourth quarter and now into the third quarter? Should the decrease be greater? Yes.
Our next question is from Michael Binetti from UBS.
Research Division</strong> So Mike maybe back to our earlier conversation in the year when you said you see about $1 billion in investment in e-commerce over the next few years you're clearly very serious about the business and that's a big number.
Can you tell us maybe just at a high level some of the big ideas for that spending that are starting to bubble up as we get further into the year here? Well I think when we quoted that number that was roughly the capital plus incremental spend over a 5-year period.
So let's just put that number in context.
And when you have the kind of scaling that we're seeing in e-commerce there's a number of things.
One is we have to continue and incrementally invest in the technology and the experience on the website.
Also as the business scales we're going to have to have more fulfillment centers because as we push more product to our supply chain and also our desire to speed up delivery we want fulfillment closer to our customers.
So there's a number of things in there over the long run that are going to require investments but those are examples of the 2 big ones.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just -- since we've gone through a lot of the other things in the quarter just a couple of modeling questions Mike.
First off the guidance looks like it expects a little bit of a deceleration in the top line or in the same-store sales number.
Can you tell us what makes you feel like we should have a decelerating right now? Is it just a matter of being early in the quarter guys and let's see how it goes? Or -- and maybe you could tell us between full price and Rack directionally which one will be higher in the quarter something like [indiscernible]...
Well yes.
I don't think it's that specific in terms of full price or Rack.
I think it's reflected in our comments and the fact that we've had some impact from Hurricane Sandy.
And there's still a level of uncertainty out there in terms of when customer behavior could bounce back to its normal trends.
So we're just being cautious.
Our next question is from Dana Telsey from Telsey Advisory Group.
Can you talk a little bit about -- obviously there was an uptick in regular price sales.
How are you -- and that's terrific.
How are you managing inventory with that uptick in regular price sales? How's the timing and flow looking for Q4 and how you're thinking about 2013? And does this then for -- portends potentially that margin opportunities for 2013? Well this is Pete.
I don't know if I can answer that exactly.
I will say that our ongoing biggest challenge with inventories is to the extent we've been able to have increases kind of month after month and quarter after quarter it's difficult to keep a lid on not having inventories grow too fast.
Because as you can imagine a certain amount of optimism tends to build with the buying group.
So we are really trying to keep a very conservative plan strategy about how we go forward with our inventories and then that we ensure increasing our turns which are still pretty high.
But that's been the best driver of margin performance for us is to continue to speed up the turns and ensure flow which is speaking to the issue of customers preferring newness.
And our final question today is from Richard Jaffe from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of follow-ups.
Given the cash balance sort of at near-record levels where is the right level or where are you most comfortable having your cash balance? And do you think you'll be putting that cash to use to enhance shareholder value? And then just a follow-on about the HauteLook investment.
That is to say could cash be used for another investment? Has HauteLook lived up to expectation at this point? Sure.
Yes Richard.
This is Mike.
We certainly coming out of the recession of 4 years ago changed somewhat our point of view how we felt about liquidity.
And we've been maintaining a more conservative liquidity and that's why you've seen our cash where it is.
But at the same time it's also because we've seen opportunities.
And over the last 12 months or so you've seen our strategy evolve in terms of announcing a variety of ways to grow the business whether it's through e-commerce or new markets et cetera.
And so number one we're going to continue to deploy cash into opportunities that we continue to see that are going to enhance shareholder value.
And that's the number one thing.
In terms of balance at a little over $1 billion it might be a little high but it's -- I wouldn't call it materially high from where we want to be.
And we'll just keep an eye on it.
And clearly when we see opportunities to repurchase stock we'll do that in terms of a balanced capital allocation strategy.
And you had a question on HauteLook? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> How is it doing? Oh how's it doing.
Sorry about that.
HauteLook is doing fine.
The business is on track to achieve its sales plan for the year which is going to be roughly a 50% sales increase.
Earnings are a little bit below breakeven and we continue both with our teams here at Nordstrom and the team at HauteLook we continue to work together to find new ways that we can enhance all the channels we have available to us to sell product to customers.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Is there more synergy between the 3 businesses the Rack the full-line stores and e-commerce? We are making progress.
Thank you.
Thank you for joining us today for our third quarter earnings call.
As a reminder a webcast replay of this call will be available for 1 year on the Investor Relations section of nordstrom.com under Webcasts.
Thank you for your interest in Nordstrom.
Goodbye.
Thank you.
And this concludes today's conference.
You may disconnect at this time.
Hello and welcome to the Nordstrom 2012 Fourth Quarter and Full Year Conference Call.
At the request of Nordstrom today's conference call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] I will now introduce Rob Campbell Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations for Nordstrom.
You may begin sir.
Hello everyone and thank you for joining us.
Today's earnings call will last approximately 45 minutes and will include about 30 minutes for your questions.
As a reminder all forward-looking statements on this call are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from the expectations and assumptions discussed due to a variety of factors that affect the company including the risks specified in the company's most recently filed Forms 10-K and 10-Q.
Participating in today's call are Blake Nordstrom President of Nordstrom Inc.; and Mike Koppel Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer who will discuss the company's fourth quarter and full year performance and the outlook for fiscal 2013.
Blake is traveling today so he is participating in the call but not with us at our headquarters.
Before we begin I want to mention that similar to last quarter we are using slides to supplement our remarks.
If you are listening to this conference call at the webcast you should already see the slides.
If you're listening by telephone you can view the slides by going to the Investor Relations section at Nordstrom.com.
And now I'll turn over the call to Blake Nordstrom.
Thanks Rob and good afternoon everyone.
The fourth quarter and 2012 results we announced earlier today reflect the ongoing consistent strength of our performance.
2012 marked our third consecutive year of double-digit total sales and EPS growth our third consecutive year of adding over $1 billion in sales and our third consecutive year of same-store sales growth of over 7%.
This accomplishment is largely attributable to the high level of execution we've achieved across all channels and to the investments we've made to fuel this performance.
Our #1 goal is to provide a superior customer experience.
We aspire to be the retailer of choice wherever and whenever customers choose to shop with us.
And we understand that our customers' definition of service is changing.
We're excited about how we're combining our people culture and technology along with new capabilities to expand our relationship with our customers both in-store and online.
This focus on being a leader in delivering a superior customer experience has created multiple growth opportunities.
And as we've shared with you over the last couple of years we're aggressively taking action.
All of them are in support of our overarching strategic priorities of: Improving the customer experience enhancing the merchandise offering increasing relevance with existing and new customers aggressively growing our online capabilities.
More specifically on this call a year ago we shared with you 5 specific goals for 2012.
Number one build out our IT infrastructure to fuel our e-commerce growth.
Number two enhance the overall web and mobile experience.
Number three expand online merchandise selection and develop a more customized approach to all aspects of our engagement with customers.
Number four add to the functionality of mobile point-of-sale devices and expand their usage in full-line and Rack stores.
And finally number five begin implementation of enhanced tools to improve the initial allocation and assortment of inventory.
During the course of the year we made progress on each one of these initiatives.
Increasingly we are using technology as an enabler in improving the service experience for our customers across all fronts.
We've made notable improvements to the web and mobile experience.
As examples we've made enhancements to search navigation and checkout.
We've added numerous features including updated recommendations and 360 video on certain product pages.
We've improved the speed of fulfillment and delivery and we provided Early Access online to our Anniversary Sale.
Going forward we plan to further elevate the shopping experience with features that provide more interaction and personalization.
Customers are increasing their usage of mobile devices in shopping with us.
On an average day more than 100 000 unique customers access Nordstrom on a mobile device with nearly twice that amount during the holidays.
In 2012 sales from a mobile device accounted for over 20% of Direct's total sales compared to less than 4% in 2010.
There's more we can do here to build on the customer mobile experience to make it even more compelling.
Our online merchandise selection has expanded by over 50% and now is virtually at parity with our full-line selection.
The selection will further expand to have the appropriate depth and breadth in our online offering.
In our stores we are enhancing the service experience through the use of our mobile point-of-sale devices.
In the third quarter we successfully launched mobile devices in all of our Rack stores to make the checkout process faster.
In the first quarter of 2013 we will remove a portion of our cash registers in our Rack stores which will add incremental selling space.
In our full-line stores our mobile devices now have virtually the same functionality as our cash registers.
Their usage has increased and our goal is to be largely mobile by 2014.
On the merchandise front we started to see improvement in our women's apparel business in the latter half of the year.
We also launched Topshop in 14 stores and online with its fast-turning on-trend fashion at accessible prices which is helping us deliver a more relevant shopping experience.
We anticipate continuing improvement in our women's business in 2013 and an expansion of Topshop into more stores.
We continue to benefit from improved buying tools to better customize the offering by stores.
Going forward we will invest in scaling our merchandise systems to support our future growth.
During the year we enhanced our Fashion Rewards program to simplify it and make the benefits more accessible to our customers.
In response we've opened a million new Fashion Rewards accounts in 2012.
This program continues to help us reach new customers and deepen our relationships with existing ones.
So we've made meaningful progress on our stated priorities of a year ago.
It's noteworthy that even with all of the investment spending associated with the strategic initiatives we've undertaken our ROIC of 13.9% represented an increase over 2011 and was the highest in the last 5 years.
Our Direct business which generates the highest return and where we have been investing heavily contributed to this improvement in ROIC.
At this time last year we commuted our -- communicated our intention of expanding into Canada.
Today we have more clarity on our expansion plans with an initial announcement in 2012 of 4 full-line stores and a view that we ultimately could have between 8 to 10 full-line stores and 15 to 20 Rack stores.
We've announced Karen McKibbin as President of Nordstrom Canada to lead this effort and she has started building a dedicated team.
We look forward to serving both existing and new customers in these new markets.
At this time last year our plan was to open roughly 15 Racks per year.
Today the plan is to double the number of Rack stores to more than 230 over the next 4 years with roughly 24 openings in 2013 and more than 30 in 2014.
Rack's total sales were up 20% in 2012 with same-store sales up 7.4%.
Its sales productivity even with the 15 new stores reached its highest level in recent years over $550 per square foot.
Our Direct business increased nearly 30% in 2011 and in 2012 grew 37% generating $1.3 billion in sales.
It's our fastest-growing channel and it is expanding our reach to existing and new customers.
We see substantial opportunities for outside growth to continue as we further improve the online customer experience.
At this time a year ago we were still searching for a Manhattan full-line store location.
Today we have a great location near Columbus Circle with a planned opening in 2018.
During the year we also announced future full-line openings in Houston Jacksonville Minneapolis and Milwaukee.
Our ongoing focus on providing a superior customer experience and increasing our relevance with existing and new customers has positioned us well for the significant growth opportunities we are pursuing.
To be clear we are a growth story with a business and operating model consistent with that.
It is these growth opportunities whether Canada Rack e-commerce Manhattan and other new full-line stores and the improvements to our existing stores that drive the investments we're making.
Some of these investments yield immediate benefits while others will benefit the future.
We are confident that in total they will provide a platform for sustainable profitable growth which we characterize by high single-digit total sales increases and mid-teens return on invested capital.
Now I'll turn the call over to Mike.
Thanks Blake.
As we look back on the year we have surpassed our financial expectations and successfully executed against our long-term growth strategy.
As Blake mentioned we are positioned for growth through our aggressive pursuit of multiple strategic opportunities.
We believe the continued momentum in our business which is reflected by 3 consecutive years of double-digit sales and earnings growth is driven by these ongoing investments to serve more customers and deliver a superior experience.
At this time last year we shared with you our 2012 financial plans including adding over $1 billion in sales and achieving earnings per share of $3.30 to $3.45.
We exceeded those plans by delivering sales growth of 12% or $1.3 billion and earnings per diluted share of $3.56.
In 2012 we reached a record high in total sales productivity of $470 per square foot.
An even more notable accomplishment was that our sales per square foot excluding e-commerce of $417 surpassed 2007's peak of $405.
This demonstrates our continued belief that a well-executed multichannel strategy is about growing all channels.
As Blake noted we increased ROIC to 13.9% which represented our highest return over the last 5 years.
This was particularly meaningful since we accomplished this while making capital investments of over $2 billion during this period.
Now I'd like to highlight our fourth quarter performance.
Our results exceeded our expectations with sales growth of 13% same-store sales increases of 6.3% and growth in earnings per share of 26%.
You can find more detail of our financial performance for both the quarter and the year in the Performance Summary document which is posted on our website.
Our Fashion Rewards program played an integral role in contributing to our overall results.
A year ago we made improvements to our program to provide increased customer flexibility and to make the benefits more accessible.
In response we opened 1 million new accounts during the year with cardholders continuing to spend more and shop more with us than non-members.
In 2012 sales from our Fashion Rewards members increased over $800 million or 23% over last year.
We now have 3.3 million active members which increased 27% from last year.
Nordstrom card penetration reached nearly 36% up from 32% a year ago.
Our execution in recent years has put us in a strong financial position.
In each of the last 4 years cash flow from operations exceeded $1 billion and we have ample liquidity.
Our capital allocation practices are disciplined and balanced.
Additionally our Credit business is healthy with key metrics having improved to prerecession levels.
Next I'd like to share our current thinking on our growth plans over the next several years.
Our ongoing focus to provide a superior customer experience coupled with our execution and strong financial position has enabled us to undertake multiple growth initiatives.
We believe these plans for future growth will provide a sustainable platform for achieving top quartile total shareholder returns.
Over the next 5 years we plan to nearly double our capital expenditures relative to the last 5 years due to investments in Canada Manhattan e-commerce and Rack.
Our current 5-year capital plan is $3.7 billion.
Roughly 20% represents entry into Canada and Manhattan and approximately 55% is planned for a combination of new full-line stores Rack stores and remodels.
The remaining 25% relates to e-commerce and technology investments including initiatives to improve our e-commerce delivery and fulfillment online and mobile experience and personalization.
We are confident that these investments are creating significant long-term shareholder value and they are changing the dynamics within our P&amp;L.
For example our growth is altering our sales mix.
We believe that within the next 5 years Rack Direct and Canada will make up approximately half of our sales.
Our stores which create the most visible representation of our brand will continue to represent the majority of our overall business but customers will clearly use e-commerce in the future more than they are today.
Given the infrastructure investments to support expansion into Canada and incremental growth-related costs associated with the Rack and higher depreciation expense from ongoing e-commerce investments we expect no expansion of EBIT margin over the next several years.
EBITDAR which strips out the growth-related expense components of depreciation and rent is expected to grow faster than EBIT and illustrates the impact of these investments.
Operating leverage in our existing stores continues and collectively their EBIT margin is planned to increase in 2013.
We are not relying on EBIT margin expansion to create value.
As our financial model evolves with our growth our overarching focus is on achieving high single-digit sales growth and mid-teens return on invested capital.
We know these factors combined with our growing capital base will drive significant shareholder value.
Now I'd like to discuss our 2013 plan.
To provide you with an apples-to-apples comparison we removed the impact of the 53rd week from 2013 comparisons to 2012.
We expect sales growth between 6% to 8% with same-store sales increases between 3.5% to 5.5%.
This reflects low single-digit growth in full-line and Rack stores and over 20% growth in Direct.
Our plan achieves earnings per diluted share of $3.65 and $3.80 representing an increase of 4% to 8% over 2012.
Included in our guidance are upfront infrastructure expenses for Canada as well as organizational and incremental preopening expenses related to Rack store expansion.
In 2013 we expect these costs to be approximately $20 million to $25 million.
The 53rd week will impact the quarterly cadence of 2013 compared to 2012 including the shift of our Anniversary Sale event between the second and third quarters.
Our earnings release provides additional color on these impacts.
With respect to our line item guidance which is compared to 53 weeks in 2012 gross profit rate is expected to decline between 10 and 30 basis points primarily due to accelerated Rack growth and higher expenses associated with the growth in our Fashion Rewards program.
Retail SG&amp;A as a percent of sales is expected to improve 10 to 30 basis points due to leverage on higher sales volume.
The increase in credit SG&amp;A reflects the absence of the $30 million reduction in bad debt reserves in 2012.
Turning to capital.
We anticipate net capital expenditures in the range of $750 million to $790 million.
This is a significant increase from $455 million in 2012 and is primarily related to Rack and full-line store growth improvements in e-commerce delivery and fulfillment and our Manhattan store development.
We expect net depreciation and amortization in 2013 to be approximately $390 million up from $366 million in 2012.
Free cash flow is planned to be approximately $130 million for 2013.
This is down from $340 million in 2012 due to our capital expenditures.
We expect cash flow from operations to be approximately $1.3 billion up from $1.1 billion in 2012.
In closing we are pleased with our progress to date.
We're excited about the numerous opportunities ahead of us and confident in our ability to successfully execute our growth initiatives.
We remain disciplined in our approach while moving faster in our execution.
Overall we believe our relentless desire to provide a superior customer experience will lead to continued growth in our business and increasing shareholder value.
With that I'll turn the call over to Rob.
Thank you Mike.
[Operator Instructions] Now we'll take the first question.
Our first question today is from Deborah Weinswig from Citi.
Research Division</strong> Mike can you discuss the gross margin performance in the quarter? Maybe just give us a little more color? Sure.
Well our gross profit benefited this quarter by an improvement in markdowns year-over-year.
We saw some significant improvement in our women's apparel business which was reflected in that.
And that was partially offset by the increased cost as it relates to our Fashion Rewards program.
But overall a relatively good merchandise margin performance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And as you guide for the future you talked about not relying on EBIT margin expansion to drive future growth.
Can you maybe -- and obviously there's a lot of moving pieces and Internet growth and growth in the outlets in the Rack business.
As we look at all the moving pieces and not much full-line growth how shall we kind of think about one offsetting the other? Well I think the first way to look at it is the chart that we shared that showed the change in the growth in the businesses and how they're contributing to the overall sales of the company.
I think in terms of the EBIT margin expansion the most important thing to remember is over the next several years we're going to be investing to ensure we have a long-term sustainable growth platform.
And the investments such as the accelerated technology investments the upfront investments required to move into Canada the acceleration of the Rack all those things have a medium-term impact on our margin performance but are there to assure that we've got a platform to deliver much larger dollar earnings growth over the long term.
Our next question is from Jennifer Black from Jennifer Black &amp; Associates.
Research Division</strong> My first question is on Savvy.
In some stores where you've reconfigured the department and brought in merchandise at very sharp price points I just was curious to know the reception to that.
And I'm not sure how many stores you have done that in.
Jennifer this is Blake.
The Savvy departments as you know have gone through a transformation.
We've been working on it for some time and the official launch in the stores was February 15.
It's all stores and we've taken a pretty dramatic change with the merchandise offering.
And so the goal is to try to help attract customers that maybe we didn't have an offering before or wasn't as compelling.
And part of that was keeping the fashion-forward trend part of it but trying to make the price points more accessible.
And it's a pretty dramatic change average price from what Savvy was before to this new Savvy concept.
And so we've only got a couple of days under our belt but I think we're really excited about that offering and the early reception we've gotten so far.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And my follow-up is if you could talk about California Southern Cal O.C.
L.A.
San Diego Northern Cal.
Well I happen to be on the phone at our Grove store right now.
So I'm in Los Angeles right now.
And Southern California and California in general has consistently over time represented some of our most productive stores.
And in the last couple of years with the cycles in the economy it's had some impact there.
In addition to women's apparel improving we've been pleased with California improving as well.
Southern California still represents some opportunities for us but the most important thing is the trend is improving.
And so we're encouraged.
Our next question is from Neely Tamminga from Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> So Mike can you -- a little bit of insights on Rack for my first question.
Second the follow-up would just be a little bit more on the e-commerce delivery and fulfillment initiative.
So I think you guys had listed about 16 Rack stores.
Could that number actually end up being higher this year? And would that higher -- more Rack stores actually already be contemplated then in the CapEx indications that you are giving to us? Yes.
Those are the stores that have currently been announced.
Our CapEx plan has allocated for more stores for 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
It seemed to me -- I think at one point you guys were talking about getting to about 230 by 2016 and that would suggest maybe a mid- to high-20 sort of number for Rack.
Is that about the right way to look at that? Yes.
That's in the range.
Research Division</strong> Okay cool.
And then on the -- can you give us some specific insights on the initiatives? You guys have cited specifically e-commerce delivery fulfillment.
Are these physical centers? Or what specifically are those initiatives that you are allocating capital for? Sure.
In terms of the fulfillment and the 2013 allocation it's about additional square footage to improve our fulfillment base.
And it's also about improving some of the -- we have to increase capacity in Cedar Rapids just because of our unit flow-through has gotten so large we have to install some new equipment.
So it's about staying ahead of the curve because we're seeing some pretty accelerated growth in that channel.
Our next question is from Edward Yruma from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit about the return on invested capital profile of both Direct and of the Rack business and particularly as it relates to the step-up in CapEx? I mean is it expected that ROIC can continue to improve despite CapEx being stepped up so meaningfully for 2013? Sure Ed.
Well as we've stated our long-term goal is a mid-teen return on invested capital.
And I think what one of the interesting factors has been over the last several years with adding an accelerated capital of over $2 billion we've still increased the ROIC.
So we do expect to see forward progress there.
In terms of the profile of the channels as we've stated before Direct because of the way the technology investment behaves we have more upfront expense a faster write-off tends to have a lower capital base and thus has a higher return on capital.
Rack is a more traditional return because we do have to capitalize the leases.
It tends to have a more longer term fixed base and does operate at a higher-than-company average but at a more traditional return on invested capital.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And you do this from time to time metrics on what your Fashion Rewards customer looks like relative to your normal consumer.
But what does your multichannel consumer look like relative to someone that shops strictly in your physical channel? Sure.
Well clearly I think one of the things that we've shared is our customer -- the customer who's shopping online shopping mobile tends to have a slightly younger profile as is the Rack customer.
Our multichannel customer is I would say an aggregate of our best customers.
And I don't believe there's any particular profile in terms of how you categorize that demographically other than they happen to be our best customers.
Our next question is from Erika Maschmeyer from Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Can you give a bit more detail around the complexion of your infrastructure investments into Canada? How much of that is labor distribution kind of preopening -- other pre-opening expenses? Sure Erica.
Well just to step back the $20 million to $25 million that we called out for 2013 roughly 2/3 of that relates to Canada.
And it's mostly around the development of our technology infrastructure to support that business as well as the buildout of the team that's going to run that business.
We're starting to build out the merchandise team and the operating team there.
And so that's basically what hits 2013.
In 2014 we'll start to see that expand.
And some of the other costs that you're suggesting will come to light in 2014.
The balance of that investment relates to preopening and accelerated Rack growth both organization and the preopening costs required to open more stores.
Research Division</strong> That is very helpful.
And then just a follow-up to one of Jennifer's questions.
How are you communicating the new Savvy concept to the customers that you might not have been attracting before? Blake? You bet.
We're taking a multipronged approach.
We've been bringing this merchandise in over the last month or 2 so there's been a transition.
And so working with the existing customers in the store we're using all forms of communications all the different channels within social.
This is not about running a traditional ad or TV program but it is trying to utilize the strong foot traffic in our stores and the various means that we stay communicated with our customers and how our customers have shared with us how they want us to communicate with them.
And so again I think already in a couple of days we've had a terrific reception.
So in many cases it's less about having kind of a formal word out.
It's more about executing in the department of the merchandise offering and having the salespeople and the product knowledge and the fashion expertise to help our customers.
So those vendors that were in Savvy 70% to 80% of them have been moved into other departments.
So we've really retained for the most part that merchandise.
We just allocated in different lifestyle departments.
And we think we really are starting to fill a void with some of these aspirational price points and higher fashion trend items that maybe was lacking a little bit in our offering.
Our next question is from Lorraine Hutchinson from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit about how you formulate your comp plan? And if there is upside to the same-store sales growth in 2013 is there is some opportunity for SG&amp;A leverage? Lorraine this is Mike.
In terms of a comp plan in the overall operating plan we shared it's consistent with our internal operating plans.
The comp plan was built on a low single-digit comp for our full-line and Rack stores and a slightly greater than 20% comp for our Direct business.
In terms of any leverage we could get leverage if sales outperform.
And that's consistent with how we've shared in the past.
We will update that on a quarterly basis if we think we're going to get more operating leverage from our sales performance.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then as you look to your new Rack openings for this year can you talk about the maturity curve of the new stores and how you're planning that from a cash flow perspective over the next couple of years? Well in terms of the maturity curve overall the Rack stores tend to mature at roughly a 3-year point and then they get to a more normal growth.
In terms of cash flow I don't have any granular kind of guidance to give you in terms of the individual store performance other than the fact that it's -- our overall ability to generate cash as we said with 2013 is consistent with which the way it's been in prior years.
And as a matter fact in 2013 it's slightly better.
Our next question is from Paul Trussell from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up Mike on your top line commentary.
Is the low single-digit comp for the full-line and the Rack and the 20% growth for Direct is that just your baseline view? Or is there something that you've seen in the business that's kind of leading to that 3.5% to 5.5% comp view just given that if we adjust for your Anniversary Sale last year you guys haven't had a comp below 5.8% since you were negative in 2009.
And obviously we saw acceleration in the Rack last year.
We saw acceleration in Direct sales last year and both those segments are becoming bigger pieces of your business.
So just -- if you can add any color to that that'd be helpful.
Yes.
I'll repeat what I said earlier and that is it's reflective of our internal operating plans.
We like to plan our business in a way that helps us gain as much leverage when we do have upside and to instill discipline within the organization around inventory and expense.
And that's consistent with how we've done it.
And if we do beat those plans that our intent is to be able to drive additional earnings from that plan.
Research Division</strong> So there's no change in your thoughts around the macro environment or your core consumer? There's nothing at this point that would suggest any change in our customers' behavior.
Our next question is from Matthew Boss from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk to merchandise margins in the quarter and also where merchandise margins stand today versus long-term peak? And finally with credit rewards and Rack becoming a larger piece of the pie where how should we think about gross margins over the long term in the model? Sure.
Well in terms of margin for the quarter as I stated earlier we had a very good merchandise margin performance in the fourth quarter.
And a lot of that was driven by the improvement in the women's apparel business.
We're starting to see much better sell-throughs in women's apparel.
That's a strong business for us and we expect it to continue.
In terms of long term we have a number of dynamics that are affecting merchandise margin.
One is the fact that as Rack continues to grow and accelerate it has a lower merchandise margin than full-line.
Now it has an equal to better bottom line margin but it's going to affect the geography within the P&amp;L.
Our overall merchandise margins right now are at or around their all-time highs.
We don't expect any significant expansion there.
Clearly we've seen a little bit of contraction from Fashion Rewards.
But on the other hand Fashion Rewards is generating a tremendous amount of top line value for us and as importantly long-term customer value.
In terms of merchandise margin our thoughts around that are not to expect any kind of significant increases.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last is on longer term store growth.
As you think about the full-line what is the best way for us to think about it in terms of longer term and are there -- do you see opportunities for potential closings as well? Well in terms of long term our expectations around full-line are a low single-digit comp overtime.
In terms of closings we periodically evaluate stores as operating agreements do come up.
At this point in time from an economic standpoint there's nothing that would suggest that we should be proactively closing stores.
But if a store happens to be in a situation where the operating agreement is up and we believe there's a better opportunity in the same market we might make a change there.
But nothing material from a store closure basis.
And overall from a full-line standpoint Canada is a huge opportunity.
We tend to talk about full-line in terms of the 4-wall U.S.
but long term Canada has a lot of upside for us.
Our next question is from Kimberly Greenberger from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I'm looking at -- I'm wondering about the inventory.
It looks like it's up about 18% year-over-year.
I'm wondering if the 53rd week had any impact on your year-over-year inventory growth? And how do you think about planning inventory relative to your sales plan just as we look out to 2013? Sure.
The impact in inventory is not from the 53rd week.
It's primarily from the growth in the Rack.
Just to give a little color on that part of our success with the Rack last year is we have taken a more aggressive posture in terms of procuring product for the next season.
It's called "pack and hold".
We're doing it with our top brands.
That has been the most significant driver of our inventory increase.
If you look at our full-line and Direct business the turns are roughly even with what they were last year.
They were in line with sales.
So that is mostly about the Rack.
In terms of next year our expectation is that growth in the "pack and hold" is going to start to moderate.
So we should see that growth start to level off as we go forward.
And our goal has always been to continue to improve our turns.
Research Division</strong> Mike I'm wondering if because of the shift in your Anniversary Sale from straddling Q2 and Q3 if there will be any sort of quarterly volatility that we should think about in your inventory levels in the -- particularly as we finish Q2 and go into Q3? Sure.
Well as you recall last year we had the last week of Anniversary go into August which means the third quarter benefited from that from a P&amp;L standpoint but the second quarter saw higher inventory levels because we still had a full week of Anniversary left.
So what you'll see this year is the inventory levels coming out of the second quarter should be down versus last year because we'll have a full week of that high selling within the period.
Our next question is from Dana Telsey from Telsey Advisory Group.
As you think about the investments you're making in Direct and we keep hearing more and more going towards mobile what are you seeing in terms of mobile purchasing in terms of pricing? Does it -- is it a different in average transaction or category? And just lastly on the Fashion Rewards how are you thinking about Fashion Rewards in terms of SG&amp;A and margin go forward? Sure Dana.
Thanks for your question.
In terms of mobile I think Blake stated in his comments that this past year we saw 20% of our online volume come from mobile.
So we continue to see that as a large channel within the channel for growth.
I mean the growth in people who have smartphones in the next year or 2 is projected to surpass desktop computing.
So that's an area that we've invested very strongly whether it's mobile in the stores with checkout and service or whether it's our iPhone app or our iPad app we're going to continue to invest in that.
And I think long term it's going to be about creating a more personalized experience whether you're online or in the store or whether you're using mobile or at a desktop.
And those are the areas that we continue to put our investments.
And then -- I'm sorry in terms of the Fashion Rewards could you please repeat that? Sure.
How do you see that -- the long-term impact on sales and margins for Fashion Rewards? Sure.
Thank you.
Well with the investments we've made in 2012 clearly our existing customers and new customers love our Fashion Rewards program.
And we expect to continue to find ways to deliver more benefits to our customers.
This past fall we tested a non-tender-based program in our cosmetics business.
Going forward we're going to continue to look for opportunities to offer Fashion Rewards to more customers and not just those that choose to have one of our tender.
So we think it's terrific for our customers and it builds a long-term loyalty value there.
In terms of its impact to margin we have seen an impact to that measured in the multiples of 10 basis points.
Over time that should level off but clearly it's driving some pretty significant top line growth.
Our next question is from Richard Jaffe from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A question on Fashion Rewards.
What percentage of your sales is coming from the Fashion Rewards program? You mentioned 36% on the card but I assumed that meant your credit card not Fashion Rewards.
Well Richard just to clarify all of our current -- all of our Fashion Rewards customers have one of our tenders whether it's our co-branded Visa our private label or our debit card.
So that 36% is representative of sales on any one of those 3 tenders.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And obviously it would all be Fashion Rewards then? So that means -- that's helpful.
Yes yes.
That's correct.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Could you just comment on your efforts to develop the HauteLook business perhaps efforts to integrate it into your existing businesses your full-line and your Rack business? And the profit picture for that business longer term? Sure.
Well last year HauteLook was able to generate roughly a 40% increase in its sales and very nearly -- near a breakeven exceeding its bottom line plan.
We continue to see opportunities there as we're offering our customers various ways to do business with us whether it's flash sale whether it's off-price in the store regular price online.
And we do believe that over time our ability to use more of the resources available to us to procure more product to more effectively fulfill product to our customers utilizing the resources we have at Nordstrom Inc.
is going to help the HauteLook model.
So going forward we definitely see opportunities for both companies to take advantage of the strengths that they both have to deliver a better offer to our customer.
Our next question is from Michael Binetti from UBS.
Research Division</strong> So I think the comment that the market is likely to focus on the next few weeks obviously the EBIT margins over the longer term and the next few years because of all the investments you guys see.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> As we look out to the out years for those of us that are modeling the business there's an opportunity for sales growth to accelerate based on these opportunities? Or do we need to think about the out year estimates trending and it seems like the earnings estimates trending call it in the high single-digit range? Yes.
Well as of right now our goals are to increase top line sales at high single-digit and return on capital in the mid-teens.
We believe that over time that's going to generate value.
If we're fortunate enough that we achieve those sales then we might get more leverage out of that.
But right now that is what our focus and it's tough to see anything clearer than that in the moment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if could you just help me think about the -- understanding the leverage a little bit maybe between the channels? I guess since you mentioned that your comp buildup is based on e-commerce at 20% growth that's well below last year.
The growth rate as it gets bigger it's a bigger piece of the mix obviously harder to grow but you're still putting a lot of investment power behind it.
So as that part of the business drives some upside on sales is -- Mike is that when you would start saying you'd start to think about a little bit higher leverage in our models? Well frankly all channels -- an improvement in sales in all channels is going to deliver leverage not just the Direct model.
We've had years where we've had some very strong comps in our full-line stores and our Direct stores where we're generating leverage.
As a matter of fact right now in '12 and plan for '13 is we generated operating leverage in our traditional 4-wall channels.
So we don't expect that not to be the case.
But when you're investing at the level we are as it relates to a brand-new channel offering like Direct as it relates to a brand-new market like Canada those kinds of things are going to require multiple years of investments in order to get there.
And that -- subsequent to that I think time will tell as to whether or not we get leverage long term.
And our final question today is from Liz Dunn from Macquarie Capital.
I guess my main question is does this sort of change in your CapEx plan over the next couple of years? It must change your viewpoint on sort of buybacks and dividends.
I mean I know you have historically managed dividends through kind of a payout ratio.
Is that still the way to think about it? And how should we think about buybacks? Yes Liz.
Well thanks for the question.
Our framework around our capital allocation is not changing.
We still look at that 25% to 30% dividend payout ratio.
That's still part of our decision-making.
In terms of repurchase of stock we still do that based on an approach that looks at long-term value -- long-term fair value of the company.
So at this point in time we don't see that having our capital plans negatively impacting those policies.
Now of course that's all based on current course and speed.
If there's any significant change in the economy that we can't foresee those are clearly levers.
Thank you for joining us today for our fourth quarter earnings call.
As a reminder a webcast replay of this call along with our slide presentation will be available for 1 year on the Investor Relations section of Nordstrom.com under Webcasts.
Thank you for your interest in Nordstrom.
Goodbye.
Thank you.
And this does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Hello and welcome to the Nordstrom 2013 First Quarter Conference Call.
At the request of Nordstrom today's conference call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] I will now introduce Rob Campbell Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations for Nordstrom.
You may begin sir.
Hello everyone and thank you for joining us.
Today's earnings call will last 45 minutes and will include about 30 minutes for your questions.
As a reminder all forward-looking statements on this call are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from the expectations and assumptions discussed due to a variety of factors that affect the company including the risks specified in the company's most recently filed Forms 10-K and 10-Q.
Participating in today's call are Blake Nordstrom President of Nordstrom Inc.; and Mike Koppel Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer who will discuss the company's first quarter performance and outlook for fiscal 2013.
During the Q&amp;A session we will be joined by Pete Nordstrom President of Merchandising; and Erik Nordstrom President of Stores.
Before we begin I want to mention that Blake and Mike will be using slides that can be viewed in the Investor Relations section of our website.
If you are listening to this conference call's webcast you should already see the title slide.
If you are listening by telephone you can view the slides by going to nordstrom.com and the Investor Relations section.
And now I'll turn over the call to Blake.
Thanks Rob and good afternoon everyone.
The first quarter for us reflected continued progress on our strategic priorities of improving the customer experience enhancing our merchandise offering increasing relevance with existing and new customers and driving online growth.
From a top line perspective the increase was at the lower end of our expectations with particular softness in more seasonal merchandise categories and in several geographic markets.
Sales trends showed improvement in April and throughout the quarter we were disciplined in our management of expenses and inventory.
We remain positive about the balance of the year as we stay focused on our efforts to deliver the kind of customer experience across all channels that build loyalty and drive sales.
As we've discussed over the last 12 months we have multiple growth opportunities underway to improve the customer experience in our stores in e-commerce and in the multichannel synergies between them.
This quarter we opened 5 Rack stores with an additional 3 stores opened today in Maryland Alabama and Maine.
We plan to open 14 more Racks over the balance of 2013 and have over 230 Rack stores by the end of 2016.
During the quarter we also announced our plans for a second full-line store in Toronto to be located in the Yorkdale Shopping Centre bringing our announced full-line store total in Canada to 5 thus far.
One of the ways in which we increase our relevance with customers is through product innovation.
Within the Women's Apparel area which continues to perform above our multichannel average we repositioned our Savvy department during the quarter to maintain its trendy fashion appeal but at more accessible prices.
It's too early to evaluate its overall performance but we're excited about this important strategic change to further enhance our product offering and build on the learnings from our partnership with Topshop.
The Topshop merchandise has performed well online and in the 14 stores where we currently carry it.
Based on its success we plan to expand its distribution to additional stores in the fall.
As the functionality of our mobile point-of-sale devices continues to expand it is allowing our full-line store salespeople to spend more time with customers and offer a more seamless shopping experience.
In the Rack we've been able to improve the service level through using mobile point-of-sale devices to reduce and often eliminate the checkout line.
The next step which we took in the first quarter was to remove some of our fixed cash registers and capture over 20 000 square feet of incremental selling space.
This is meaningful because of the high sales productivity we achieve in the Rack.
In e-commerce our focus has been on strengthening the customer experience through a focus on selection convenience and experience.
We've expanded the breadth of our online merchandise offering so that today it virtually is at parity with our store offering and will continue to grow.
In terms of convenience during the quarter we added well over 100 new features to the website made improvements to our mobile apps and increased the speed of fulfillment and delivery.
We're still in the early stages in the area of personalization.
In essence customizing the experience on our site providing product recommendations and building tools that help with fit and style.
We're also making substantial investments in the infrastructure of our systems to support our accelerated pace and growth.
Our Fashion Rewards program continues to grow with new accounts running ahead of last year.
We now have 3.5 million active members up from 2.9 million at this time last year.
We've long recognized the program's ability to attract and deepen relationships with new and existing customers and we're pleased that our customers are taking advantage of it.
During the second quarter we'll offer customers the ability to open a Fashion Rewards account online and have immediate shopping access including participation in the Early Access portion of the Anniversary Sale.
The second quarter is a particularly high-volume period for us with our Men's and Women's Half-Yearly sales followed by the Anniversary Sale that begins on Friday July 19.
These events bring strong traffic into our stores and online and give us meaningful opportunities to establish and strengthen our relationships with customers.
In closing we remain positive about the balance of the year.
We're motivated by the strategic growth opportunities we're pursuing and we're on track in terms of our progress.
We'll continue to update you as we go throughout the year.
And now I'll turn over the call to Mike.
Thanks Blake.
Consistent with what we've shared with you in recent quarters we continue to focus on the execution of our long-term growth strategy that encompasses multiple channels and an expanding geography.
To date we are on track in terms of our progress with respect to our planned entry into Canada our accelerated store expansion in the Rack our aggressive growth in e-commerce and ongoing full-line store growth.
The potential these initiatives offer in terms of the expansion of customers we serve and the differentiated experience we provide is significant both individually by channel and in the synergy created across channels.
Our confidence and commitment to the successful execution of these initiatives remains strong.
Turning to the results of the current quarter I'd like to offer a few comments.
Our sales performance resulted in year-over-year growth although lower than anticipated.
As Blake mentioned we experienced softer sales trends early in the quarter in both seasonal merchandise categories and geographically in the Northeast Mid-Atlantic and Midwest regions.
That being said we did see improvement in April sales trends and our outlook for the balance of the year remains positive.
For the first quarter earnings per diluted share of $0.73 came in at the lower end of our expectations which was fully attributable to lower-than-planned sales volume.
We delivered a same-store sales increase of 2.7% while going up against last year's 8.5% improvement.
The Direct business showed continued momentum generating 25% sales growth on top of last year's 44% growth.
Additionally total Rack sales grew by 10%.
Women's Apparel achieved same-store sales increases above the multichannel average.
The strength in our regular price selling continued reflecting our customers' preference for newness and fashion.
The percentage of regular-price sales matched last year's recent historical high for the first quarter.
Overall operating disciplines were very encouraging.
We began the year with inventory in good shape and we were able to exit the quarter in a great position which sets us up well for the high-volume second quarter.
This includes the incremental merchandise investment to support Rack growth.
On the expense side our variable costs were well controlled and our overhead was in line with plan.
Earnings before interest and taxes or EBIT were $275 million representing a decrease of $5 million or 2% from last year.
While we achieved the sales increase of 4.8% it was offset by planned expenses related to our growth.
These included incremental expenses attributable to our strategic investments in Rack Canada e-commerce and our loyalty program.
We previously shared with you estimated costs of $20 million to $25 million for 2013 associated with our entry into Canada and accelerated Rack expansion and we incurred roughly $6 million in the first quarter.
Next I'd like to provide some additional color on our long-term growth investment.
As mentioned in our fourth quarter call we are planning capital investments of $3.7 billion over the next 5 years.
75% of our plan consists of investments in stores reflecting their importance in building and supporting our brand while leveraging our multichannel presence.
The remaining 25% or roughly $900 million represents e-commerce and technology initiatives.
Approximately 1/3 of that $900 million relates to our fulfillment capabilities largely through expanding capacity.
The remaining 2/3 represent technology investments to improve the customer experience and to strengthen our infrastructure to support the growth of the business and the accelerated pace of change.
We continue to believe our level of investment is appropriate positioning us to serve more customers and deliver on an ever-changing experience consistent with what customers expect from our brand.
Our 5-year capital plan represents approximately 5% of sales which is in line where we have been historically and consistent with what has been the spend level over time for growing and adapting companies in our sector.
We remain committed to our long-term financial goals of mid-teens ROIC along with high single-digit sales growth.
In 2012 our ROIC of 13.9% was the highest over the last 5 years a period in which we invested nearly $2 billion in our business.
Our first quarter ROIC was 14% 90 basis points higher than a year ago.
With our investments continuing in 2013 we expect ROIC to continue to grow.
We are in a strong financial position.
For some time we've applied a balanced approach to capital allocation which takes into account our strategic investments combined with returning value to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
In the first quarter we repurchased 3 million shares for $166 million and we have $1 billion remaining under current authorizations.
During the quarter we also replaced 2 credit facilities having a combined capacity of $800 million with a single 5-year $800 million borrowing facility.
Now I'd like to address our current outlook for the year.
We recognize that it is still early with the first quarter typically representing the lightest sales volume.
While we did experience slightly softer sales than expected we believe that our plan for the remainder of the year is appropriate.
As such we are maintaining our view of 2013 earnings per diluted share of $3.65 to $3.80 which includes the impact of first quarter share repurchases of approximately $0.05.
Our top line view has been adjusted to reflect the lower-than-planned volume in the first quarter.
In closing we continue to be excited about the many opportunities we have to serve more customers with great product and an unmatched customer experience through our expanding channels and new geographies.
With that I'll turn the call over to Rob.
Thank you Mike.
[Operator Instructions] With that we'll take the first question.
Our first question today is from Ed Yruma from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> On the slides you had a -- I think it was a Rack inventory slide maybe it was a full business slide and you had something called the pack-away Rack inventory.
Could you talk a little bit about that? And whether that's a new strategy or not? Sure Ed.
This is Mike.
Thanks for your question.
Yes.
The pack and hold is a strategy that we began last year and the idea there is to be more assertive in the market to get the best product we can as we transition out of the season.
And with the continued growth in our Rack business and the improvement in our partnership across all our channels we're just getting more scale and more leverage and we're able to get better inventory.
And that increase in inventory represents that investment.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And one quick follow-up.
Thank you for the table to kind of help us with the quarterly trends due to calendar shift but I was wondering if you could maybe give us a little bit more quantification in terms of the magnitude of difference between 2Q and 3Q based on the week shifting? Yes.
Ed we're not giving specific direction by quarter.
I think we did talk a little bit about that second quarter would be higher than average and the back half would be lower.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question today is from Deborah Weinswig from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Can you comment on traffic versus ticket in the quarter? And just how should we think about kind [ph] of things as they progress throughout the quarter? Traffic versus ticket is it the question? Research Division</strong> Yes yes.
Well there was a certainly a softness throughout the quarter.
April was better more return to normal.
We had more softness in the first 2 months of the quarter regionally in our Northeast capital which is the Mid-Atlantic and our Midwest regions.
So there was definitely some softness there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And it does seem like the Nordstrom Rack definitely bucked that trend.
Can you comment on that business specifically? Deborah this is Mike.
I just wanted to just make one more comment on that.
In terms of the average ticket in the first quarter our regular-price selling was as good as it's ever been and the average ticket was up.
So we continue to see good progress there.
And then the second part was the Rack? Second question was the Rack? Research Division</strong> I said Rack definitely seemed very strong in the quarter.
I just wanted to see if you could comment on that business specifically? Deborah this is Blake.
Our Rack business continues to perform well but it also mirrored to a degree that full-line stores from a comp store point of view but we're very pleased overall with it and its strategy and the new store growth is going on plan and in some cases exceeding our plan.
So we still feel good about that but it was interesting that it's had a healthy trend for some time.
And it came down a notch during the quarter but a similar trend or a reflection of the full-line stores.
Our next question is from Paul Swinand from Morningstar Investment Research.
Research Division</strong> We keep talking about the regular-price selling and how it's getting better and it feels like you keep reaching new highs.
Is there any reason that that would not continue or that eventually you might not want to have that high a level or something that could reverse? Or should that just continue to get stronger as you keep getting smarter about business? This is Pete.
I mean it was really just reflective of what customers are interested in buying from us.
And I -- we -- it actually served us really well that we have a good full-price business that is reliant on newness and all that.
And we geared everything that we do in terms of how we flow inventory to be along those lines.
We don't have the same kind of margin pressures given the markdowns which is a good position for us to be in and frankly serves us well when dealing with customers too.
We're in a position we have to match prices and that sometimes affects it because most of our peers are more promotional than we are as we know -- as you know.
But all in all it's been a good positive trajectory for us to be on and we've just been trying to follow our customers' lead with what they're most interested in buying from  Nordstrom.
Research Division</strong> Is it kind of equal Rack to full-line stores? It's a little bit different.
I mean obviously there is a different agenda happening in the Rack where the whole premise is around markdowns and what have you.
But we -- I think relative to that we have good sell-throughs at our first marked price.
And I don't know Blake if you can expand on that.
I will -- this is Blake I will concur with Pete.
It's a little bit of a different animal full-line to Racks but in terms of the regular-price selling particularly as we understand it amongst the peer group we have one of the highest regular price business within the Rack.
And that first markdown hopefully we're pricing it accordingly is moving well.
And so that helps.
And given their flow and their margins and there's a similar story if you will with the full-line stores even though there's some -- there's a different model there slightly.
Our next question today is from Bob Drbul From Barclays.
Research Division</strong> It's Joan Payson on for Bob today.
I guess if you could speak more to the Fashion Rewards program given the penetration today just maybe what your long-term plans are and when you think that growth and penetration will begin to slow? And then is there any difference in behavior for rewards customers? Sure.
Joan this is Mike.
In terms of the program we're still enjoying the momentum that was built last year when we introduced what we called Fashion Rewards 2.0 which was the next level of our offering where we enhanced the benefits and we made it more accessible to more customers.
And that momentum continues.
We did this past fall do some testing on a non-tender-based program and we're learning from that and we're going to continue to move forward and see ways that we can reach more customers through loyalty.
In terms of their behavior those customers spend several times more on the average than non-Fashion Reward customers and clearly their loyalty has a very high lifetime customer value.
So those customers continue to be a core for us.
With the expansion into the Rack we're acquiring new customers at a younger stage of their buying cycle.
And so those are all positives.
So we're going to continue to learn from it and find ways to grow it.
Our next question is from Dana Telsey from Telsey Advisory Group.
I apologize.
We'll move on to the next question.
Our next question today is from Dorothy Lakner from Topeka Capital.
Research Division</strong> I wondered if you could give us a little bit more color on some of the things that you're doing in Women's Apparel.
Obviously with Savvy you've changed the pricing there some of the departments seem to have moved around.
I think if I'm not mistaken t.b.d is not there anymore.
It seems like denim has moved kind of within the department.
So I wondered if you could just talk a little bit more about the changes you've made there and how customers are responding? This is Pete.
I feel like I got to run down to the floor and make sure t.b.d.
didn't fall into the ocean or something because we haven't moved that one.
That's kind of been business as usual there for the most part.
If anything we're -- pretty much have expanded our offer there.
We did make a change with Savvy and was mostly just around trying to be more competitive what's happening out there in the landscape of being able to buy a trend right [ph] clothes at lower prices than what we were offering so we dropped our average price point considerably.
And that has made a really interesting difference for us.
In total it's really benefited Women's Apparel.
We're still trying to gain traction on this change.
I think to your point that some stuff has moved around and that's been somewhat unsettling to some customers.
And we've been through this before so we know it's going to take a little bit of time.
But I'd say the early indications of this has been a good thing to do and it's going to enable us to attract more new customers.
So I'd say really the success of Women's that's part of it but there's a couple of things that happened there.
First of all we've done a much better job of prioritizing and editing around disproportionate spend on key brands.
Obviously that's how customers tend to be able to navigate our stores based on these brands they expect to find from us and we've invested more heavily in them with more inventory.
We've given them more prominent locations and merchandising features on the floor and the business has gone up quite a bit.
So that's been a good move for us.
We've also had a lot of improvement with our own label what we call NPG or Nordstrom Product Group.
We've had really good success with our private label brands in Women's and really excellent growth which has not only been great for the top line but it's very good for our margins as well.
Our next question is from Lorraine Hutchinson from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> With Topshop then maybe any productivity metrics? Could you repeat that question please? Research Division</strong> Sure.
Topshop can you give us any more details on your store rollout? How many do you think you'll have this year and maybe next year? And then any details you can share on productivity? Yes this is Pete.
We're planning on opening some new stores this fall.
It's been successful so far with the 14 stores we started out with.
It's got to happen in some kind of measured pace because there's a lot that goes with this and not the least of which is the amount of investment and effort it takes to give it the proper identity and location in our floors.
And so we're working closely with the Topshop people to identify the stores the locations and the specific merchandising elements it needs.
So we're planning in I think late September early October to add 28 stores at this point that's what we've agreed upon and we're working through those details with them.
And presuming it will go as we all think it will continue to go that we would be able to follow up with another approximately 30 the next season.
When I say that more like January February.
Again and I think it behooves both Topshop and us to -- once we've decided and figured  out that this is good and worth doing to get it going as quickly as reasonably possible so that's -- we're aligned on that.
And I would say in general it's been productive and more productive than an average department in Women's.
So when you combine that with the fact that it attracts a lot of new customers as well it's been a good thing for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe can you just elaborate more on what exactly the investment looks like from a dollar perspective? Yes I'm not going to get into the details of that.
But it's fair to say that it's not trivial.
To do this right and do it well in a way that they're happy and we're happy we don't want to do this in a temporary looking way.
We want to do it in a way that looks like we're serious about the business.
So those details get worked out.
We have a great partnership with Topshop that we share a lot of those costs.
This is Mike.
It's also I think fair to say that the expectations of the returns on wherever we're investing are very high.
This is a significant opportunity for us.
Our next question is from Neely Tamminga from Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Mike I wanted to talk a little bit more about Fashion Rewards if we could.
I know that you guys have been testing that non-tender-based card.
I'm just curious in those tests if you could be a little bit more specific as to how you tested it and what you found? Did you test it full-line in Rack or both or just one of them? And then related to that is there going to be an additional rollout of this around pre-shop? Is that kind of what you guys were talking about in terms of being able to sign up for the Fashion Rewards online doing pre-shop? Is that the connector there? And then just one tiny little additional if I may.
In terms of mobile iPhone functionality you guys have definitely been ahead of the curve.
We've been tracking it pretty closely.
It does seem to me though that there's opportunity -- there's always endless opportunity -- but there's opportunity to really put more information around Fashion Rewards in your customers' hand.
What's the timeline for something like that on the docket? Well Neely thank you.
I tried to write down all those questions.
I'll do my best to address them.
The first is the test.
The test we did was primarily full-line and in Cosmetics.
That was an area that we felt certainly was an opportunity to enhance loyalty and repeat business.
I'm not going to get into too many specifics in terms of what we learned other than the fact that we do see opportunity down the road to have more of a non-tender offering.
We are currently in the process of building and investing in the technology that would give us a better platform not only with the Fashion Rewards on our tender program but also non-tender.
So we learned enough to validate that I think there's opportunity to move forward.
In terms of the pre-shop I think what we were talking about in Blake's comments was the fact that we're going to have the functionality to apply for a card online and get immediate approval so then you can turn around and shop online.
And as you know for Anniversary Sale the pre-shop is only open for Fashion Rewards customers.
So the fact that you can go on apply get approval you can pre-shop online at that point.
And so we see that as another opportunity not only to get more customers in the program but also to offer them the convenience of the pre-shop for Anniversary.
And then the mobile iPhone E you want to cover that? Yes this is Erik.
Mobile we're not going to get into our exact rollout schedule.
But you are right there is a big opportunity to utilize mobile to get relevant information in the hands of the customers and Fashion Rewards is certainly high on the list for us.
It's a program that our customers have responded really well to.
And the more we can engage it in the better it is for us.
So I'll tell you it's on our list along with other features to get relevant information to our customers' hands.
Our next question is from Jennifer Black from Jennifer Black &amp; Associates.
Research Division</strong> You guys have made great success with Women's and so I have questions on 2 different departments.
One I wondered if you could talk about Encore? It appears the performance is improving after underperformance for what seemed like many years.
And I wondered if you're eliminating Encore in some of your stores and spreading plus sizes throughout other departments.
That's my first question.
Yes this is Pete.
Encore we actually have had some improvement in the last 8 months or so and largely it's been because our online business there has grown disproportionately fast to everything else.
We've had big increases online with the Encore department.
It's been more closer to flat in the stores but that's where we've had the growth.
I think because of that we've learned that perhaps it doesn't have to be in every store.
I mean every store is different based on the space constraints that we have and the customers that we have in the store.
But if we can serve that customer well online we're anxious to do that.
I think every store we have to evaluate and prioritize.
I think the worst thing that we can do is to try to do a bunch of departments in a mediocre way rather than doing fewer in a really good way.
And I think often times the Encore department -- Mike get squeezed a little bit in terms of the space that it needs to do it successfully.
So we can offer much more breadth of assortment online and again that seems to be working well for us.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then my second question is about Activewear as a category for both men and women.
I mean it's a categories that it seems like a tremendous opportunity and retailers are clamoring to get into the space and Zella looks amazing.
So I just wondered if you could talk about that as an opportunity and would you consider Zella or another private label brand for men? So another really good question.
In fact it has been successful for us and Zella has been a huge catalyst for that given that we own that brand and manufacture it and design it ourselves that's something we're really proud of.
And we've not really come close to the full potential of that brand in the Women's area.
In terms of how that's going to translate to Men's we've had those conversations about that line specifically or there may be another label that we might be able to do in Men's through NPG.
But right now what we're doing is trying to expand on the big athletic brands that we have already.
The challenge there is not dissimilar from the Encore conversation where we have to prioritize and edit make the space that we need to be able to do it well rather than do it in kind of a mediocre way.
So the good news for us is we have a lot of stores where we can try different iterations of how we layout Men's and this is something that we are working on currently and will happen for the remainder of the year as we try to figure out the best go-forward plan.
Our next question is from Dana Telsey from Telsey Advisory Group.
I wanted to talk a little bit about fulfillment.
As obviously there's more dollars being allocated to fulfillment how do you see ultimately with online with the stores how does the fulfillment equation work? And what do you think of the margin opportunity once you get fulfillment where you want it to be? Dana it's Blake.
On the fulfillment subject it's really evolving.
And if you go back it was about in bulk just getting it to our stores.
And then with catalog starting but really the e-commerce business having one large efficient facility as the customers expectations and really terrific choices have evolved we're looking at our supply chain from a customer point of view of how do we deliver single items in a much more timely manner.
And so that's going to mean -- we've been on this journey and we've been utilizing our stores' inventory and services better and we have an opportunity in all aspects of our business -- off price as well as regular price.
But it will require more smaller centers to be able to deal on a more timely way with our customers.
And so we will be over time making more investments and evolving there and technology plays a huge role in it too because the old days of fulfillment it was a big cement building and kind of in bulk -- kind of going through that.
And now actually the technology is ensuring that the allocation is proper to where the customer and the demand is to be able in a timely way get it in their hands.
And so you talked about margin lastly.
Where the efficiencies occur is that we're able to again maximize that inventory and turn it better and flow it better and through this multichannel strategy then that creates a more higher percentage of regular-price selling which improves our bottom line.
So we're encouraged by that.
And we're -- we've made good progress but there's a lot to do and we look forward to in future calls communicating with all of you about what our plans are there.
Yes.
And Dana this is Pete.
What I would add to that is the challenge that we've had in the last couple of years is trying to catch up with all the demand we've had online.
I mean the most efficient way to allocate inventory is to put it where the demand is coming from.
And so I think we've done a much better job in this last quarter of getting the inventory in the right place.
But it's all based on having really good information and good flexibility and this is just an ongoing challenge for us to continue to try to put the inventory where the demand is being generated.
Our next question is from Erika Maschmeyer from Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Could you provide any sense for the magnitude around how trends picked up in April or the weakness for seasonal or how warmer regions outperformed? Essentially any metrics that helped give you confidence in the 3% to 5% comp guidance for the rest of the year? Yes.
Erika this is Mike.
We're not going to get into that level of detail.
But suffice it to say we did see measurable change in terms of improvement in those regions that we called out and we have seen a more normalized pattern of selling in the seasonal goods.
And our practice has been as we've said in the past is that we will replace the actual that we've incurred with the plan that was there and we'll use the plan the remainder of the year unless there is something materially different.
And at this point in time we don't see anything materially different from that plan.
Research Division</strong> Okay that makes sense.
And then just a follow-up how big are your private label brands today? How big are the private label brands? Yes.
What do you exactly mean? Like what...
Research Division</strong> What proportion of sales or...
We don't give that exact information.
I would say it's at a fairly similar level as it's been in total but we have some places where it's really grown quite a bit.
And we mentioned Women's in particular and I think that's just been good for us all the way around.
The good news there is that there's a great example to be able to follow and all our merchants are nothing if not competitive.
And they like seeing that example out there and feeling like there's an opportunity for them to expand with private label as well.
Most of it is happening along what we would consider the better price points that's where most of the opportunity is.
And we are trying to enhance that make it bigger and better because we're encouraged by what we've been able to achieve of late.
Our next question is from Paul Lejuez from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> It's Tracy Kogan filling in for Paul.
I was wondering if we can assume just based on what you said about full-price selling that your merchandise margin was up in the quarter? And if so could you give us the magnitude? And then wondering how much the shipping hurts you there.
And then secondly if you could just talk a little bit about the new store performance of your recent Rack openings? Yes.
Tracy this is Mike.
In terms of merchandise performance actually we continue to see somewhat of a downtrend in our total merchandise margin because of the growth of the Rack is becoming a larger percent of total.
And Rack just by its inherent nature has a lower margin.
That being said the individual businesses relative to their plan and expectations did very well for the quarter so we were happy with the merchandise margin performance.
And then the second question excuse me was? On the Rack new store performance this quarter.
And I made -- this is Blake I made brief mention on that Mike on earlier question.
We've been really pleased with our new store performance throughout 2012 and that's continued in 2013 in Q1.
And so I think we made mention that we've opened 8 stores to date and you're going to have 1 or 2 that vary a little bit.
But overall it's been exceeding our plans and that teams executing those openings well to date.
Our next question is from Michael Exstein from Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> A quick question please.
Can you just give us a sense about non-seasonal goods how they did versus seasonal goods? This is Pete.
I think -- well for example we had a good coat season I think that's part of what the same thing.
Our coat business for the quarter was up considerably.
But most of it how we trace it was along the lines of the seasonal goods being spring or summer goods from T-shirts to shorts to sandals was measurably down.
And that has improved.
Again as everyone has mentioned as the quarter went on and we feel like we're in a much more normalized place.
But that is definitely how we measured it and looked at it.
Research Division</strong> And so just following up so the businesses that are less seasonal seasonally impacted was their rate of sale relatively unchanged throughout the quarter? Or was the lack of seasonal goods really hurting traffic in the front end of the quarter? Yes.
Maybe the best way to look at that is Cosmetics which had a good quarter.
And so if you were to look at that you would get the sense that things have really been unchanged for them.
And so I think that would speak to what you're talking about traffic has generally been good their businesses continue to go at the same momentum it's gone for quite a while.
So yes I think that would probably be a good example to demonstrate what we suggested here.
Our next question is from Rob Wilson from Tiburon Research.
Inc.</strong> Mike you've mentioned in the past you've had this higher regular-price metric that you've discussed.
I think for many quarters now yet I'm looking at a gross profit margin that's in decline.
So can you help me reconcile the 2? Sure.
Well there's a couple of things in there outside of the merchandise margin.
One is what I just discussed and that's the growth of the Rack business.
The off-price business the economics of that business has a lower merchandise margin Rack's becoming a larger percent of the total so it's bringing the average down.
And the second thing which is something else we've also shared is the growth of the Fashion Rewards program.
The accounting requires that the cost of the benefits get reflected in the gross profit line and so that's also having an effect.
But in terms of the actual merchandise margins and the health of the inventory and our ability to sell things at a regular price that continues to be a positive.
Inc.</strong> Can you help me -- can you define regular price? I mean are you talking about all 3 channels the Rack the full price and the Internet? We're primarily talking about our full-line stores and our Direct channel not the Rack.
Our next question is from Howard Tubin from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you provide us any update on HauteLook and how that business trended in the quarter? And whether you have anything new going on with that business? Sure.
Well actually HauteLook had a very good quarter.
Its comps were actually higher than our Direct channel and for the first time we had operating profitability.
So that business has shown some good legs [ph].
We're making some progress in terms of leveraging our ability to get product and some of the things we've done operationally to improve fulfillment.
So we actually made some very good progress in the first quarter.
Our next question is from Richard Jaffe from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of just housekeeping questions and then a bigger picture issue.
The number of square feet at the end of the quarter is that -- if you could share that with us for modeling purposes? I don't have that in front of me but I'm sure we can get that to you Richard off-line.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And the Anniversary Sale given the shift in the fiscal calendar this year will that be the same year-over-year or apples-to-apples on a quarterly basis? No.
Actually it will be different.
You may recall last year the last week of the Anniversary Sale fell into the third quarter.
This year it will all be in the second quarter.
So our second quarter sales will be higher as a result of that.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And 3Q might suffer a little bit? And 3Q would be down that's correct.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And then just a bigger question on the Men's business and what's been a source of success for you and I'm wondering if you could comment on that and how that's performing and what's making it work? This is Pete.
Men's has been a real solid performer for us and that's been that way for over a year now.
And we've had pretty good strength really across the board.
In particular our clothing departments had with suits primarily has been really strong.
I think that our Men's team has done a good job of evolving our operative to feel more modern and relevant and give a guy a reason to buy something new it's -- you've got to keep moving forward and make sure that you're really grounded in what the customers are -- what's motivating the  customer to buy and lifestyles evolve and change.
I mean Jennifer [Black] even spoke to it a little bit in terms of like the Active trend as an example.
I think that our Men's team has done a really nice job of continuing to evolve our offer and be there for our customers.
And our final question today is from Dorothy Lakner from Topeka Capital Market.
Research Division</strong> Just to get a little bit of color on the credit business it seems to be continuing to improve although the credit revenues were lower than last year.
So I wondered Mike if you could just add a little color there? Yes sure.
Well our credit metrics continue to be very strong and matching and then sometimes better than where they were pre-recession.
Our write-offs are in the low 3s our delinquencies are 1.7 right now so that's very positive.
In terms of the credit revenue I thought the credit revenue was relatively even with last year.
Is she speaking to reserves maybe? Taking them or...
No I don't think so.
So I mean we haven't seen a significant growth in our receivables because the trend we've seen over several years is improving payment rates.
So the efficiency of that asset continues to get better and so that's why we've seen relatively flat credit revenue year-over-year just because of the growth of the receivables.
And by the way we have a large percentage of our customers who don't revolve.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So they're paying off as opposed to actually using the credit? That's exactly right.
Thank you for joining us today for our first quarter earnings call.
As a reminder a webcast replay of this call along with our slide presentation will be available for 1 year on the Investor Relations section at nordstrom.com under Webcast.
In addition an overview that summarizes today's discussion is included at the end of our slide presentation.
Thank you for your interest in Nordstrom.
Goodbye.
Thank you.
And this does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may disconnect at this time.
Hello and welcome to the Nordstrom 2013 Second Quarter Conference Call.
At the request of Nordstrom today's conference call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] I will now introduce Rob Campbell Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations for Nordstrom.
You may begin sir.
Hello everyone and thank you for joining us.
Today's earnings call will last 45 minutes and we'll include roughly 30 minutes for your questions.
As a reminder all forward-looking statements on this call are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from the expectations and assumptions discussed due to a variety of factors that affect the company including the risks specified in the company's most recently filed Forms 10-K and 10-Q.
Participating in today's call are Blake Nordstrom President of Nordstrom Inc.; and Mike Koppel Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer who will discuss the company's first quarter performance and outlook for fiscal 2013.
During the Q&amp;A session we will be joined by Pete Nordstrom President of Merchandising; and Erik Nordstrom President of Stores.
Before we begin I want to mention that Blake and Mike will be using slides that can be viewed in the Investor Relations section of our website.
If you are listening to this conference call as a webcast you should already see the title slide.
If you are listening by telephone you can view the slides by going to nordstrom.com and the Investor Relations section.
And now I'll introduce Blake Nordstrom.
Thank you Rob and good afternoon everyone.
We continually aspire to improve the customer experience across all channels and encompassing new products new markets and new technology.
We're encouraged by the platform we're establishing that will enable us to drive sustainable profitable growth.
We ended the second quarter with earnings per diluted share of $0.93.
This was a credit to the discipline that was demonstrated with respect to inventory and expenses and reflective of the variable nature of our financial model partially offsetting sales that were softer than anticipated.
Overall our sales trends in the second quarter and throughout the first half of the year weren't as strong as we expected.
Total company same-store sales in the second quarter increased 4.4%.
Multichannel same-store sales increased 4.2% with consistent trends experienced across both regions and merchandise categories.
Rack achieved a same-store sales increase of 2.4% improving upon first quarter's increase of 0.8%.
The anniversary sale then generated a low single-digit same-store sales increase which is below expectations but consistent with trends.
Early Access continues to be a benefit valued by our Fashion Rewards members and the strength of our loyalty program was an important driver of the event.
Next I'd like to offer an update on our growth strategy which fundamentally reflects our desire to be the best in service and experience in serving our customers across multiple channels.
One of our overarching strategic themes is to increase our relevance with existing and new customers.
We are encouraged with the momentum in our Women's Apparel business driven by improved execution as well as strategic changes that we are making to help attract new customers.
It was a notable achievement that Women's Apparel led all merchandise divisions in our Anniversary Sale performance.
The performance of Topshop has been promising.
In response this fall we will expand it to another 28 full-line stores bringing the total to 42 stores by year-end.
Thus far in 2013 we've opened 8 Rack stores bringing the total to 127 and plan to open 14 more this fall.
To date as a group the newer Racks are achieving results in line with our expectations.
Our Rack stores are gaining more experience with the mobile point-of-sale devices that were rolled out last year allowing us to enhance the customer experience by improving the speed of checkout.
Our Direct business grew 37% in the second quarter as it maintains a focus on improving selection convenience and the overall customer experience.
During the quarter we made progress on a number of initiatives including the following: We further expanded our online merchandise selection.
We collaborated with Pinterest where we have over 4.5 million followers to highlight top items online and in selected stores.
Continued construction of a second fulfillment center in Southern California to be completed in the fall and we are developing plans to add a third fulfillment center on the East Coast in 2015.
Our preparation for expansion into Canada is on track with the first of our 5 announced full-line store openings to take place in Calgary in the fall of 2014.
We think when we're fully established in Canada with 8 to 10 full-line stores and 15 to 20 Racks it can be roughly a $1 billion business for us.
We've been focused on improving our multichannel capabilities for a number of years and our belief in its strength to elevate the customer experience only grows stronger over time.
We're working to elevate this experience in-store and online with both a full-price and off-price offering for each.
While each channel represents a meaningful growth opportunity individually the synergies created by the overall customer experience contribute to our ability to attract retain and serve customers into the future.
We are encouraged by the opportunities we see and we look forward to keeping you updated on our ongoing progress.
And now I'll turn over the call to Mike.
Thanks Blake.
As we reached the halfway point in the year we are pleased with our progress.
We are on track with our long-term plan including improvements in the online experience enhancements to our merchandise offering to increase our relevance with existing and new customers and accelerated store openings in the Rack.
We remain positive about our path forward and confident in our investments to serve more customers across multiple channels.
Now I'd like to offer a few comments on our second quarter performance.
Earnings per diluted share of $0.93 increased 24% relative to last year.
As a reminder the shift of our Anniversary event resulted in a favorable comparison to last year and is expected to be offset by an unfavorable comparison in the third quarter.
In the second quarter the impact of the event shift resulted in an increase to same-store sales of approximately 250 basis points and an increase to earnings per diluted share of approximately $0.06.
Though sales were less than anticipated the second quarter showed moderate improvement from early in the year.
We maintained our focus on managing inventory and expenses while benefiting from the variable nature of our financial model.
The gross profit rate of 35.5% which was in line with our expectations decreased by 13 basis points over last year primarily due to growth in our Fashion Rewards program.
We now have 3.6 million active members up 18% from a year ago.
We continue to achieve meaningful growth in both card penetration and sales over last year.
In the first 6 months of the year we opened over 500 000 new accounts.
This is on pace to match the 1 million accounts opened last year which benefited from enhancements to the program made in January of 2012.
We were disciplined in our merchandise planning which allowed us to exit the quarter in a favorable inventory position.
Ending inventory per square foot grew 2.6% compared to sales per square foot growth of 3.9%.
When removing the impact of the Anniversary event shift inventory growth outpaced sales growth due to continued planned investments in pack and hold inventory to support Rack's growth.
On the expense side the SG&amp;A rate decreased 105 basis points.
This in part reflected leverage from higher sales volume due to the shift in the Anniversary sale.
It was also a function of a reduction in variable expenses correlated with top line and overall company performance.
Overhead expenses supporting both current operations and future growth were on plan.
We incurred expenses in the second quarter related to both Canada and Rack growth of $4 million or $10 million on a year-to-date basis which is on track with our full-year estimate of $20 million to $25 million.
Now I'd like to provide additional color on our long-term growth.
As Blake shared we strive to be an exemplar in providing a superior customer experience in stores and online in full price and off-price and with synergies across channels.
While full-line stores will continue to be the foundation of our business representing the core of our brand we believe that over next 5 years roughly half of our sales could come from the combination of Rack online and Canada.
The dynamics of our business model anticipate the following: Continued moderate growth in full-line including new market opportunities in Canada and Manhattan; accelerated Rack store expansion to increase our reach to new customers and in response to customer demand; and aggressive growth online driven by our investments to expand in this channel and our customer base.
Over the last year we have shared our view of the evolving business model as we continue to grow.
We expect to drive value creation through sales and EBIT growth combined with a more productive capital base.
As we previously discussed we believe our growth investments will limit operating margin expansion over the next several years.
That said our overarching long-term financial goals remain the same to achieve high single-digit sales growth and mid-teens return on invested capital.
Now let's turn our updated -- let's turn to our updated expectations for the year.
We have revised our plans to reflect results in the first half of the year as well as our view of a continuation of current sales trends through the remainder of the year.
As a result we reduced our annual same-store sales outlook to 2% to 3% compared to the prior outlook of 3% to 5%.
Our current outlook of earnings per diluted share is $3.60 to $3.70 relative to the prior outlook of $3.65 to $3.80.
Please refer to the Performance Summary document located on our website for more color on our line item guidance.
In closing our enthusiasm about our investments and the many opportunities in front of us remains strong.
We are confident in our ability to successfully execute our growth strategy as we deliver a differentiated customer experience in-store and online.
With that I'll turn the call over to Rob.
Thank you Mike.
I should have mentioned earlier that also joining us for Q&amp;A is Jamie Nordstrom President of Direct.
[Operator Instructions] For now let's take the first question.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Deborah Weinswig with Citi.
Research Division</strong> And if you look at the quarter and the performance can you just talk about how things progressed during the month and -- by month? And also if you look at the Rack business versus full-line if you could compare and contrast that as well.
Well Deborah this is Mike.
I think on one of the charts that we provided we illustrated the cadence of sales by month for the quarter.
And I think the story was after a softer first 2 months earlier in the year our overall sales trends were pretty consistent in the last 4 months of the first half of the year.
So I wouldn't go any deeper than that because I think the overall consistency is reflective of that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of your Fashion Rewards customers do they continue to outperform the rest of your customers as well? Yes they do.
Our next question comes from Dorothy Lakner with Topeka Capital Market.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask about Anniversary and how the cadence of the sale has changed with the emphasis on Fashion Rewards and just the greater flexibilities given to customers to shop online et cetera with Early Access? Just comparing to the last few years how have things changed? This is Erik.
There is -- has been some shift in the cadence over the last couple of years.
Our Fashion Reward program continues to be a tremendous strength for our overall business.
And it's -- there's 2 big impacts around Anniversary.
It's -- the Direct is with Fashion Reward customers participating in Early Access and that's grown healthily over the last couple of years.
The other big impact of that though is by having that Early Access as part of the Fashion Rewards program we opened up a lot of accounts especially around Anniversary.
And the benefits of Fashion Reward customer serve us all through the year.
So it's been a real win-win for the company and I think for our customers.
And you mentioned some of the shift to online.
And I think that's just another example.
Customers -- they want to shop how they want to shop.
Our job isn't to dictate how they want to shop.
Our job is to serve them as best as we possibly can.
And we've had a number of years where we've had strong mobile channel capabilities.
And we find that during sale time in particular customers like to use online both to shop directly and our percentage of our business goes up online during sale events but they also like using the web as a tool for their store shopping.
So that synergy that we've experienced good value for a number of years on heightens during Anniversary.
Research Division</strong> And just one follow-up in terms of Anniversary you mentioned that you're pleased with the progress in Women's Apparel.
What about the other parts of the Women's business? Are you seeing some kind of trade-off between Apparel versus Accessories? Or did you feel like those other categories kind of continued to carry their weight? This is Pete.
I'd say they pretty much continue to carry their weight.
We had actually a fairly level of performance I mean some did better than others but not dramatically.
The place where we're probably must challenged related to Women's Apparels in the Juniors segment.
And our next question comes from Charles Grom with Sterne Agee.
Okay.
Our next call actually comes from Jennifer Black with Jennifer Black and Associates.
Research Division</strong> I know you were just talking about some of the categories.
I wondered if you could give us a deeper view into what categories performed well and what categories underperformed.
And I'm just curious about the strength in Men's and then also I'm really curious about Women's individual departments.
Jennifer this is Pete.
Without getting into too much detail Women's across the board actually did fairly well.
Individuals has been strong.
Our coat business has been strong.
We've had good Studio and Narrative business kind of through this year so far.
And that's been carried through with the event.
For sure our efforts around Savvy and Topshop in particular have helped drive new customers into Women's.
If you look at the total lift that we're getting in Women's a big part of that is how we've just kind of shifted our center of gravity and put more energy and investment of inventory in those classifications.
That's worked out pretty darn well.
Men's has really performed quite well with Men's clothing.
Kind of interestingly if you look out over a period of time has really been on a good trajectory there.
Really solid business for us.
We've executed really well there.
And the team deserves a lot of credit.
As I mentioned the challenging part is really BP.
Our Women's Juniors has been the most challenging.
And I think we own a lot of that.
We've traditionally done a pretty good job of -- doing a good job with items there.
And for whatever reason we didn't hit it as well this season as we have before.
The good news is that department turns relatively quickly.
We can learn things fast and we have a chance to make adjustments.
So we're working on it We think we can improve it.
Research Division</strong> Great.
I just -- I have one follow-up.
I wondered what your thoughts were on the duration of the sale as far as how long it's open to the public.
That's a good question.
We talk about that a lot.
It's a weighted decision because we do so much business on all those days.
Even the worst Anniversary sale day is significantly better than a non-sale day on the terms of just pure volume.
So we need to be careful about making those kind of decisions.
Obviously Early Access has impacted that.
I don't know if we look at the balance of the wholesale we did more business on this Anniversary Sale than we've ever done in the history of the company.
So I think if you look at it from that point of view it's been successful.
There's a lot of risk obviously with the inventory investments we need to make.
And it's a lot of pressure and strain on the people and stores to execute it because it's a high level that's taken to do it.
So I don't -- all this stuff goes into question for us.
We balance the historical stuff that we have with our new strategies that we're trying to implement.
And as Erik mentioned the way Early Access and online have impacted the sale but we have to be mindful what that means and how it might impact how we execute the sale in the future.
But those are the things that we're actually working on right now while the results are still fresh in our mind.
And we'll probably have a much better idea about a month or so from now exactly how we'll amend it next year.
Our next question comes from Charles Grom with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> So I'm just wondering if you guys could speak to your expanded merchandise selection online.
Obviously the Direct business being up 37% nice uptick on a 2-year.
Could you amplify on that for us? Yes Charles this is Jamie.
We started about 2 years ago to do some pretty simple things with selection.
Number one was make sure that all the merchandise we were buying for any of our stores we were also putting online which had not been our strategy prior to that.
We had -- we had curated an assortment for our website much like we would do that for a store.
And so roughly 2 years ago we said no if we're going to carry an item in any store we should also have it on our website.
So that's been the bulk of our selection expansion efforts.
And then more recently this year we've gone beyond what we carry in the stores.
And it's not anything radical or something that would stick out but it's brands and styles that we may not be able to physically fit in a store but are super relevant to our customers.
So an example would be a great brand like Burberry.
We may have 50 styles of Burberry in one of our stores but they make 400 styles for the season.
And we can carry all that on our website and there's a lot of demand for that.
So that's a flavor of what we're focused on right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And one for Mike on Slide 13 the EBIT margin expectations I was wondering if you could just walk through the -- how big a GAAP there is between the 3 segments in terms of the actual operating margin percentages? And then did I hear you correctly in that as you kind of think about the next 5 years with a high single digit sales growth that we should expect essentially no margin expansion in the retail business essentially staying pretty flat.
Is that sort of the message you guys are trying to get across? Yes Charles we're not breaking out to that level of specificity in terms of the percentage differences.
But I think directionally those slides give a pretty good story in terms of the overall fundamental ability for those businesses to drive margin.
And then in terms of the overall in the aggregate yes our message is for the next several years we don't expect overall company margin expansions.
Next question comes from Lorraine Hutchinson with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Could you comment on any geographical areas of strength during the quarter and also any commentary that you have on early fall selling post the sale? Okay this is Erik.
Geography pretty darn consistent.
For a while our Southern parts -- both our Southeast and Southwest regions have done well as well as the Midwest.
Nothing really stands out unusually either and for our regions.
Now what was the second question? Research Division</strong> Early fall selling trends? Oh early fall.
Do you have anything...
Well we had some really good performances in what would be kind of typically fall type of classifications things like boots for example.
I think the number one item we had in terms of pure dollars was a boot.
So that -- I think that bodes well for what we think is going to happen in the fall.
Our coat business has been pretty strong and that's continued on.
So I -- we -- as the sale has progressed over the years there's a bit more of a buy now wear now thing happening but we still have customers that are really interested in what's new particularly as it relates fall.
And so we get some good indications.
And I think for the most part we feel like we're pretty spot on there.
Your next question comes from Paul Lejuez with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you maybe talk about the expense reductions that were made intra-quarter to respond to the slower sales environment.
If you could kind of bucket those out for us.
And also wonder if you adjusted bonuses during the quarter if you maybe reversed an accrual? Paul this is Mike.
I think as we've shared in the past roughly 40% of our operating model is variable.
And what primarily drives that is the commission-based sales structure in the full line stores as well as the fulfillment costs for anything that we ship to customers.
And when our sales are down relative to our plan those naturally adjust to that.
And so one piece of it is just the variable nature of the model.
And the second piece which you brought up in terms of incentives yes we did make some adjustments in the second quarter based on overall reduction in our expectations for the year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you quantify those for us Mike? No I think at this time we're not going to quantify the details of that.
Our next question comes from Paul Swinand with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Just I think -- I forget if it was the prepared remarks but I think your -- you said you had some expense in Canada and I know you're targeting next year for the first opening.
What -- can you give us just color on what's really different up there maybe on both the investment side but also the operational and the merchandise side? What do you expect to be different what do you think the challenges are and how do you think you'll address them? Sure.
Paul this is Mike.
Well let me just start with this year and then I think Erik will talk a little bit about some of the operating challenges going forward.
The biggest difference right now is to open stores in a different country is going to require a different technology support and different functionality in terms of how we operate the business.
And that's probably the most significant upfront difference.
And then of course we have to make early on investments to build our team and to get some of the merchandising and buying processes in place.
So those are the things that we're experiencing right now up to and prior to the opening of the store.
And then with the opening I'll turn that over to Erik.
Yes as Mike touched on there's a tremendous challenge just operationally.
Pretty much every business function needs some change to operate in another country which probably isn't big news but we haven't done that before.
So there's a lot of work for us.
But in the end we will be successful if we deliver a great experience for our customers.
And as we talk to customers more and more and that's what we're doing a lot of we're doing a lot of listening what we hear more than any other thing is bring us a great Nordstrom store don't bring us Nordstrom light.
And that's what we're focused on.
So it's not a different strategy how we execute it it's going to have to be different some of the systems and logistics and things.
But we're focused on making those stores the absolute best Nordstrom stores they can be.
And we are confident that if we do that that will be successful.
Your next question comes from Neely Tamminga with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Jamie I was wondering if you can speak a little bit to the mobile strategies what you guys are working on here near term.
And I think there was some discussion at some point maybe the last 2 calls about your launching a tender-agnostic loyalty program.
I'm just wondering where you guys are in that process and if we could see some hints of that this fall? Neely we continue to see an increase in the amount of customers that are engaging with our website through mobile devices.
It's outpacing just the overall growth which I think is -- and something that's happening in history [ph].
So we've been focused on making sure that our mobile optimized website as well as our apps are meeting customers' expectations.
So we've recently relaunched an upgraded version of our iPhone app.
We've added some features to that and customers are responding pretty favorably.
We do believe that that's going to keep going for a while.
We think the amount of customers that want to engage with us through their phone has a lot of runway left.
And so we're putting a lot of effort in making sure that the experience they get when they interact with us through their phone is a pretty good one.
I'll let Mike handle the loyalty part.
Neely in terms of the non-tender loyalty I think we've shared with everybody previously that we did a test in our cosmetics area last fall.
And we're currently in progress in terms of building an infrastructure that's going to allow us to test a broader base non-tender program.
And we should be able to start that testing sometime in the near future we don't have an exact date but we're working toward a test in the near future.
Our next question comes from Ed Yruma with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> I know historically when you've had Anniversary Sales that have been slightly weaker than planned you've had to kind of run some of that excess inventory either through full-line or at Rack.
And I know while you're pleased with the aggregate amount of inventory I guess if you could comment specifically on Anniversary Sale inventory and your comfort level with it.
This is Pete.
We actually -- we did a pretty good job in our sell-throughs and we met our plan in all those cases and exceeded last year.
Where we have a tougher time is if it's some of the product is NPG product where we own it we made it.
And in those cases I think we have to really think about how we're going to be able to mark it down an efficient way and work through it.
But there's a lot of upfront plans that we work on with our vendors that enables us to swap out product or in some cases they take it back or what have you.
There's -- it's just really a product of working with our best vendors that we have the best partnerships with to do a collaborative thing here to the mutual benefit of everybody.
And so we found that the mutual participation and partnership has been great.
So we're actually in good shape there.
I think again that the challenge will be in just a very couple of isolated places we have some of our own products that we're going to have to work through here in early fall.
Ed I would also add that we've considered any pockets that we might think a risk in our going forward expectations for the year.
And I will also say that those pockets are pretty small.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
I notice you also left the credit revenue forecast unchanged.
I guess how should we think about that line longer term? I know you're getting obviously continued strength within Fashion Rewards.
Your trends there I think are well ahead of that guidance so you've put up year-to-date.
And with interest rates rising could that be a potential upside source longer-term? Ed as you know we don't look at that line as a I would say explicit growth line in terms of driving revenue.
It's an outcome of what we believe is a very good credit offering.
That being said the growth in the receivables is up a little bit.
That's naturally going to grow a little bit of that revenue.
There is a portion of our accounts that have variable-based pricing based on interest rates.
And if in the future we should see rising interest rates that there would be some impact from that.
But keep in mind that well over half of our accounts are transactors.
They pay off monthly and we don't earn any finance revenue on those.
So I wouldn't necessarily look at that as a standout explicit driver.
Your next question comes from Michael Binetti with UBS.
Research Division</strong> So if you think about -- step back and just look at the Anniversary sale think about what we've -- how you guys have talked about over the past few years and you've expanded Early Access and it seems like you're -- I don't feel like you got to the headline number you wanted to on the sale with the low single-digit number this year.
Maybe you can talk about the components of that growth rate? And maybe was it a volume issue after years of such heavy volume for that sale? Or do you think maybe you need to tweak pricing or anything like that.
This is Erik.
Really -- the story is our trend Anniversary is very consistent with our trend all year long.
Were our expectations higher? Yes.
Our sales year-to-date are below our expectations going through the year.
But our volume results during the Anniversary Sale were very much in line with our year-to-date trend.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow up.
Maybe -- obviously you did a really good job of balancing the retail SG&amp;A dollars and the sales environment in the quarter.
Is there a similar ability to flex that in the back half of the year if the sales environment doesn't play out to the guidance? Yes this is Mike.
Certainly anything related to the volume -- the top line volume that's either driven in the stores or driven through fulfillment in the stores or fulfillment through our Direct business is going to have an impact on our variable costs.
So the answer is yes to that.
In terms of the management incentives likely the impact of that wouldn't be as meaningful as it was in the first half of the year just because in the second quarter there was little bit of a catch up for a six-month adjustment.
But that being said we continue to operate the model consistently and do expect that if our performance is good it will cost us more to do that business.
If it's less it will cost us less.
Our next question comes from Kimberly Greenberger with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Mike I'm hoping that you can help us with the small trim in the earnings sides for the year.
If you could just help us understand what piece of that or is it equal parts of both came from the slight shortfall in the first half and how much is it a revised outlook for the second half of the year? Sure Kimberly.
Most that -- I would say entirety if you look at the results for the year it's all about the drop in the comp sales.
We originally went into the year with a 3% to 5% expectation.
We dropped it to 2% to 3%.
We made the appropriate adjustments in volume and margin and then the appropriate adjustments in the SG&amp;A.
And that's really what's driving it.
There's no other story outside of that other than volume.
Research Division</strong> And would you say the lower revenue expectations or the lower comp expectations are sort of equally in the first half and the second half? Or is there something about the trend that you've seen in the business recently that's giving you a little bit more pause for the second half of the year? I would say at this point in time the trend we're looking at the back half of the year is pretty consistent with what we saw in the first half.
And that's how -- and that's what's reflected in the numbers.
Our next question comes from Joan Payson with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just going -- digging a little deeper on your back half guidance it looks like there may have been a slight change to the fourth quarter comp guidance embedded in that.
And could you just talk about maybe the third quarter versus the fourth quarter and if there are any calendar shifts that you're looking at in particular that might have changed that? Sure.
In terms of any shifts the biggest difference is the fact that we expect the third quarter to be down because of the movement of the Anniversary Sale.
Last year 1 week of the A Sale was in the third quarter.
This year it all fell in the second quarter.
So relative to the expectations for the back half of the year the third quarter is expected to be below what the overall average is and the fourth quarter roughly the same.
And because of the large amount of volume in the fourth quarter it tends to carry the back half of the year.
Our next question comes from Paul Trussell with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just taking a step back and thinking about the bigger picture your sales have certainly slowed down quite a bit this year versus years past.
And you're not the only retailer to experience that.
What do you think is the mindset of your customer today? Are they feeling challenged? Is it just a lack of want for apparel and accessory the lack of newness in the fashion in the stores? Just be interested in your take on that.
Paul this is Mike.
I think if you step back even further than the period of time that you suggested we're in a business that tends to travel in cycles.
And we did -- we have had a very strong last 3 years coming off the recession.
We're up against 3 very strong stack years.
We think that's a piece of it.
There's been all kinds of stories out there in terms of all the different macro factors that may be affecting consumer spending.
We think there's probably a story in every one of those thoughts.
But in the end our job is to stay focused and execute on what's given us and that's what we're doing.
We feel very good about the future.
And we think that this is just one of those shorter-term blitz within a long cycle.
Our next question comes from Liz Dunn with Macquarie.
I just wanted to dig into that last question a little bit.
Is there any category that you've seen take a sort of sharper drop-off than others? I'm specifically interested in Women's Shoes Jewelry Watches Cosmetics how are those performing relative to the very strong trend that we've seen for several years.
This is Pete.
There's nothing to indicate a drop-off in our business as it correlates to some kind of macro trend.
And usually that's applied to like a designer agenda or something.
We've had really continued good strong growth in all the luxury and designer parts of our business.
I mean as I've mentioned a couple of times already the most challenging part of our business has been Women's Juniors but that's not related necessarily to any kind of macro factor that we're aware of.
It's probably a lot to do with just how we execute.
So yes the shoe thing has still gone well for us.
Some of the changes that we had in Shoes is reflected upon specific items for example that we've grown into very very large items over the last couple of years.
And when those change at all then we feel that but this is not -- it's not unusual.
I think Mike talked about it a little bit.
This is kind of a normal cycle of how the business goes and we've been through these cycles before and we just keep moving on.
Our next question comes from Barbara Wyckoff with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Two little quick questions.
If you could do over the quarter what would you do differently merchandising sales anything else? And then could you just update us on HauteLook? That's a good question.
If we could do anything over what would we do differently? I think part of it is we have an ongoing challenge with figuring out how to work both the retention and the acquisition side of how we're reaching out to customers.
And I think an ongoing issue for us is to find the appropriate balance there.
I think as it relates to Anniversary sale really anything I think if we can figure out how to invest in a way that acquires new customers then I think that's something we would do.
We have thoughts on that and we're applying it to everything we're doing going forward.
But I guess in terms of the benefit of hindsight that would probably be something that we would look to change maybe a little bit.
And in HauteLook? This is Jamie.
Our HauteLook business is really good and give credit to that team down there in L.A.
They're firing on all cylinders and are well ahead of plan for the year.
And I think the net effect of that is it gives us a lot of confidence in the future and opportunity in that online off-price space.
We think that there is a really compelling customer opportunity there for us.
And the team at HauteLook is building a platform for us that's going to give us a lot of growth in the future so we're pretty excited about that.
Our next question comes from Mark Altschwager with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just starting up with the follow-up on the questions regarding sales outlook and the consumer mindset anything you'd highlight in terms of trends by price points just strength and either the high end or the low end within the assortment? Yes it's Pete.
As I said before it's nearly impossible to draw any kind of correlation between that.
Whatever ups and downs we have in the business right now isn't necessarily related to a specific price point like that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Then shifting gears on Rack as the Rack expansion has continued any changes to your expectations on the sales ramp and profitability? And then specifically as that concept heats up are you finding the sites that you want? And has the cost equation shifted at all from a real estate perspective? This is Blake.
On those questions to the Rack it's meeting our expectations and we haven't seen any change in terms of real estate availability or costs or a number of the factors that you mentioned changing from what we've been experiencing last year or 2 or 3.
So we're encouraged by the customer response to that business and the opportunities going forward.
Our next question comes from Richard Jaffe with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm just wondering about the integration of HauteLook for full-line stores and the Rack businesses.
I'm wondering how those are coming along and if there's developments we can look for in the near future in terms of shopping returning and mixing of brands.
Richard this is Jamie.
Yes we do have plans.
I would say we are in the very early stages of some of those integration plans.
Since the acquisition we've tried to not hinder HauteLook's growth by trying to do too much integration but we're getting to the point now where we're going to be able to start doing and talking about some things that we're doing to enable the HauteLook customer to participate more fully in the multi-channel experience with our full-line stores and our Rack stores.
And nothing to really get in to details about today but we'll have more to talk about I think over the next 6 to 12 months on that front.
I'd like to turn over for closing remarks to the speakers.
Thank you for joining us today on our first quarter earnings call.
As a reminder a webcast replay of this call along with our slide presentation will be available for 1 year on the Investor Relations section of nordstrom.com under webcasts.
In addition at the end of the slide presentation we've included an overview that summarizes today's discussion.
Thank you for your interest in Nordstrom.
Goodbye.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for participating and you may now disconnect.
Hello and welcome to the Nordstrom 2013 Third Quarter Conference Call.
At the request of Nordstrom today's conference call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] I will now introduce Rob Campbell Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations for Nordstrom.
You may begin sir.
Hello everyone.
Thank you for joining us.
Today's earnings call will last 45 minutes and will include about 30 minutes for your questions.
As a reminder all forward-looking statements on this call are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from the expectations and assumptions discussed due to a variety of factors that affect the company including the risks specified in the company's most recently filed Forms 10-K and 10-Q.
Participating in today's call are Blake Nordstrom President of Nordstrom Inc.; and Mike Koppel Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer who will discuss the company's third quarter performance and outlook for fiscal 2013.
Joining during the Q&amp;A session will be Pete Nordstrom President of Merchandising; Erik Nordstrom President of Stores; and Jamie Nordstrom President of Direct.
Before we begin I want to mention that Blake and Mike will be using slides which can be viewed by going to nordstrom.com in the Investor Relations section.
And now I'll turn the call over to Blake.
Thanks Rob and good afternoon everyone.
As you know we're actively engaged in a number of initiatives as we execute our growth strategy all of which fit under our overarching goals of striving to be the best in service and experience increasing our relevance with existing and new customers and being the retailer of choice whether in-store or online.
There are benefits to create synergies across our businesses that promote a seamless customer experience.
We'd like to use this time to provide an update.
First a comment on current trends.
Our online business continues to deliver considerable growth consistent with our expectations and reflective of the investments we're making to elevate the online shopping experience.
We're encouraged that the Rack same-store sales after a slower start to the year have rebounded and were in line with our plan in the third quarter.
As we've commented in previous quarters we've experienced softness in our full-line store sales with third quarter results consistent with recent trends but lower than what we anticipated as we started the year.
We don't believe it's attributable to any one factor.
That said we know customers respond to freshness and fashion and we're working to provide that combined with ongoing efforts to enhance the store environment and overall execution.
The momentum in our Women's Apparel business continued benefiting from increased focus on key brands and improved shopping environment and product innovation.
We're appealing to new customers with our repositioned Savvy department featuring on-trend fashion at more accessible price points and with the expansion of Topshop into a greater number of stores.
We started the year with Topshop in 14 stores and now we're in 41 with more to come next year.
The performance of these departments is meaningful individually but also collectively in terms of the impact they are having on our overall Women's business.
In September we relocated our full-line store in Glendale California with opening sales exceeding plan.
The interior design concepts which reflect our customers' desire to make it easier to shop emphasized selling floor flexibility through the ability to more quickly adjust and evolve departments over time.
This is the approach we've taken with all of our 2013 remodels including select stores in Southern California Chicago Seattle Connecticut and Florida and will be included in our renovation program going forward.
We're encouraged by the ongoing growth in our e-commerce business.
We've had 2 consecutive years of at least 30% sales growth at nordstrom.com.
And this year we're on track to have a similar increase.
Our efforts to personalize the customer experience based on customer preferences and purchase history continue.
In addition we are close to announcing a site for an East Coast fulfillment center to further enhance our ability to deliver on customers' expectations for fast reliable delivery.
Turning to the Rack.
We opened 11 stores during the quarter including 1 relocation.
At least half represented new markets for us including 2 that were in new states.
This year we've opened 24 Racks including 2 relocations and we plan to open roughly 30 Racks in 2014.
As we expand the number of stores we're also expanding the services we're offering.
We recently added capabilities through our mobile point-of-sale devices in the Rack to locate and send the customers merchandise from any one of our Rack locations.
In addition we're enabling our Rack stores to accept HauteLook merchandise returns which has added convenience for our customers while driving incremental traffic to our Racks and further integrating the customer experience across channels.
Our HauteLook business has grown by over 25% year-to-date and now has nearly 15 million members.
We recently opened a 900 000 square foot fulfillment center in San Bernardino that is much more automated than its predecessor.
It has capacity for nearly 3 million units which will support significant multi-channel growth.
In addition today we're adding on HauteLook a persistent selection of Nordstrom Rack merchandise to complement HauteLook's existing flash sale offering.
We're pleased with the growth and integration taking place in this part of our business.
While we're making improvements to each individual channel in which we operate we recognize that the customer views us simply as Nordstrom.
Increasingly we're seeing the benefits not only of the growth at each channel but also the synergies between them including customer acquisition and retention.
We know that our most engaged customers shop us in multiple channels and spend 3x to 4x as much as other customers.
Using enablers such as technology Nordstrom Rewards inventory access supply chain marketing and merchandise returns that we can leverage across the company are critical in making for a seamless customer experience.
With that I'll turn the call over to Mike.
Thanks Blake.
We remain strongly committed to our growth strategy which focuses on delivering a differentiated customer experience across all channels.
We're working to achieve this while also being mindful of the daily execution of our business.
After 3 quarters we've been encouraged with the momentum we've experienced particularly in our Direct and Rack businesses.
Full-line sales trends during the year have been consistent though less than planned but we've been pleased with our execution around inventory and expenses which has mitigated the top line softness in our full-line stores.
Our third quarter earnings per diluted share of $0.69 were in line with our full year outlook.
This reflected our Anniversary event shift which represented an estimated decrease to earnings per diluted share of $0.06.
Combined second and third quarter same-store sales which eliminates the impact of the event shift increased 2.4% and was comparable with the first quarter performance.
As Blake mentioned our overall sales performance was consistent with the full year outlook that we shared last quarter.
We continued to see outsized growth in Direct reflecting our ongoing efforts to expand merchandise selection and enhance the online experience.
In addition HauteLook generated a strong sales increase.
We believe that the continued integration of HauteLook positions us well to serve more customers in the online off-price channel.
Rack total sales increased 16% in the quarter reflecting 20 stores opened since the third quarter of last year.
Rack same-store sales showed improvement from earlier in the year tracking in line with our plan.
Full-line sales performance represented a continuation of sales trends experienced in the first half of the year.
Top geographic performances were in the Southwest and Southern California regions.
The notable improvement in the Southern California region in part reflected recent strategic investments particularly in Women's Apparel.
Merchandise category performance also showed consistency in terms of relative trends throughout the year.
Top performing categories included Cosmetics Women's Apparel and Women's Shoes.
We've been encouraged with the strategic changes in Women's Apparel which outperformed the Nordstrom average on a year-to-date basis.
Now let's move onto inventory and expense performance where our disciplined execution drove results that were in line with our plans.
Inventory growth per square foot of 5.9% exceeded sales growth per square foot of 0.3% primarily due to the Anniversary shift and investments in pack and hold inventory to fuel Racks growth.
Third quarter gross profit rate decreased 41 basis points relative to last year primarily due to higher occupancy costs related to the accelerated Rack store expansion.
The strength in regular price selling continued with the percentage of regular price sales in line with last year's historical high for the third quarter.
The growth in our Nordstrom Rewards program continued with more than 3.7 million active members up 15% compared to last year and year-to-date card penetration of 38% up from 36% a year ago.
Our credit card portfolio performance remains healthy with delinquency and write-off rates around a 5-year low.
Third quarter SG&amp;A rate increased 65 basis points compared to last year primarily due to deleverage from the event shift and planned growth investments including technology fulfillment the Rack and Canada expansion.
This included $6 million of expenses related to Canada and Rack's growth or $16 million on a year-to-date basis which is on track with our full year estimate of $20 million to $25 million.
On a year-to-date basis our SG&amp;A rate improved 13 basis points relative to last year.
Our 4-Wall business which represents our full-line and Rack comparable stores continued to generate year-over-year improvement in SG&amp;A rate performance demonstrating our ongoing disciplined execution.
Our financial position is sound with roughly $950 million of cash total liquidity of nearly $2 billion and operating cash flow of over $700 million.
Adjusted debt to EBITDAR of 2.1x is well within the range of investment grade.
During the quarter we repurchased 2.7 million shares for a total of $155 million with $824 million remaining under our existing authorizations.
Year-to-date net capital expenditures were approximately $550 million consistent with our full year expectations of $750 million to $790 million.
At the end of the quarter return on invested capital increased to 14% from 12.9% a year ago.
As we've previously shared with you these investments are fueling growth for the entire company.
When reviewing the overall performance of our capital investments made over the past several years they exceeded our expectations and were accretive to our total company return on invested capital.
Our track record of successfully reinvesting in our business adds to our confidence and we -- as we move forward with our growth plans.
In doing so we continue to look for ways to make the store experience more compelling.
We are encouraged with the initial results from our recent store investments in Women's Apparel reflecting our efforts to cost effectively add selling floor flexibility to more strongly emphasize brands and to innovate with product.
Our recent learnings are informing enhancements to our remodel strategy to touch more stores more frequently through a more targeted department focus.
Finally I'd like to address our updated outlook for the year.
Our current outlook of earnings per diluted share is $3.65 to $3.70 compared to our prior outlook of $3.60 to $3.70.
We expect the same-store sales increase of approximately 2.5% which is consistent with our year-to-date trend.
Included in our outlook are the following considerations: the 53rd week in the fourth quarter of 2012 represented a sales increase of approximately $162 million and earnings per diluted share increase of approximately $0.04 and we anticipate no material impact to fourth quarter sales related to the compression of holiday shopping days.
In closing we continue to make progress on improving the customer experience and look forward to the growth opportunities ahead.
With that I will turn the call over to Rob.
Thank you Mike.
[Operator Instructions] So Lisa with that let's take the first question.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Dorothy Lackner with Topeka Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to go back to the full-line stores.
Obviously Rack has been -- has had a nice rebound here direct is very strong and you're up against 3 years of some pretty strong numbers.
So just wondering if you look at the merchandise categories across the full-line businesses is there anything that you're seeing that's kind of impeding the comp there or is it simply the comparisons are tough? This is Pete.
I don't think we would say that the comparisons really are so much the issue.
I think for us the most challenging business that we've had that's sizable is the Women's Junior part of the business and that's going on for gosh about a year now.
It's been pretty challenging for us.
I don't know if that's unique to us in the industry but it's a sizable part of our business and something that we're -- and we feel like we're working the right things.
Otherwise the business has been relatively stable and consistent this year.
And we talked about the divisions that are doing well Cosmetics and Women's Apparel Women's shoes.
Our Men's business has been solid.
So I don't -- there's not any big outliers there that I think are indicative of something that we need to change remarkably.
I would say that the things that we think we're working on that are bearing fruit in particular the success we've had in Women's.
There's learnings there that we can continue to apply towards that division and also to other merchandise divisions.
Our next question comes from Paul Trussell with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Could you speak to the health of your core consumer? How are they feeling right now? And if you can just comment on the trends in the later half of the quarter.
Paul this is Blake.
Our trends as both Mike and I tried to relay in our comments have been very consistent throughout this year.
And so we are planning accordingly for the fourth quarter.
We're taking those numbers and those results as we move forward.
So we aren't planning for any change going forward.
And beyond that I mean I don't -- we don't comment about economic or customer issues beyond how they vote with their dollars.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just -- is there any color you can provide just in terms of kind of the early '14 outlook investment dollars expected for your entry into Canada just how we should think about '14? Yes.
Paul this is Mike.
We'll be commenting on that more in detail when we talk in February.
We're right now in the process of developing and refining those plans.
And we'll be happy to give you a little bit more insight into that when we report fourth quarter.
Our next question comes from Edward Yruma with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> You've really ramped up the pace of the Rack store openings as you look to double the count by 2016.
Can you give us any insights into some of the newer markets or stores you're entering? Are you seeing cannibalization? And are they ramping with the same productivity that you've seen out of some of your legacy stores? Yes.
This is Blake.
To-date we've been very pleased with the accelerated growth and the results have exceeded our expectations.
One of your questions was has it had any cannibalization on comps or what it's done on the productivity.
Our productivity is maintained and even improved slightly.
So at this juncture we're really pleased with the execution of those stores and we think it's reflected in the numbers.
We were concerned about our ability to find good real estate the talent needed for those stores the customers' response and probably most importantly our ability to access inventory.
And I guess across all fronts at this moment we couldn't be more encouraged by both the reception the results and the opportunities.
So we're forging ahead.
Ed I would just add a small comment.
We included a slide that indicated the returns we're getting and the Rack stores continue to deliver very consistent return year-over-year on each vintage of store opening.
So again to Blake's point we're very happy with it.
Our next question comes from Matthew Boss with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Underlying the gross margin line what's the trend that you're seeing with the core merchandise margins? How should we think about this going forward? And should we model continued occupancy pressure from Rack as this continues to expand over the next couple of years? Yes.
Matthew this is Mike.
In terms of overall merchandise margins other than the impact of the mix of Rack growing faster than full-line merchandise margins have been relatively constant.
Most of the change that we're seeing in the gross profit as we report is a result of what I just mentioned earlier the mix as well as the increased occupancy costs and the acceleration of the Rack.
In addition we have had some pressure from the Nordstrom Rewards program although that is a little bit lighter than it was last year.
Our next question comes from Kimberly Greenberger with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Mike I'm wondering if you can talk to us about the inventory levels here coming into the fourth quarter.
How are you feeling about your inventory levels? Is there any sort of color on how you think you'll exit the year? And if you can just talk to us about any kind of performance differentials relative to last year that you're seeing in your seasonal categories that would be great.
Sure Kimberly.
In terms of inventory levels I would say our levels in execution have been relatively consistent throughout the year.
We're transitioning from the third quarter to the fourth quarter with how we feel inventory to be in very good shape.
The growth in the levels is primarily due to some timing relative to anniversary in a way that sales per square foot was calculated and then clearly the investments that we're making in growing the Rack with the pack-and-hold strategy.
In terms of the aging of the categories and the segmenting of the inventory it's all very healthy.
So we feel good about it.
We've clearly maintained a prudent outlook in terms of our sales projections and how we made commitments to inventory and that's helped us transition through this period.
So we expect that coming out of the fourth quarter that unless there is some unusual unforeseen event that our inventory levels should be in good shape going into 2014.
Our next question comes from Lorraine Hutchinson with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just hoping for a bit more of an update on the progress in Canada how the team is progressing do you have the people that you need? And also how fast do you think you'll be able to open Racks once you have the full-line stores open? Erik can you comment on that please? Sure.
Thanks Lorraine.
We're very happy with our progress in Canada.
There's a lot of work.
It's not the sexiest of work.
It's a lot of operational issues to address.
And we have our very best people we've assigned to that.
Karen McKibbin the President of Nordstrom Canada.
For us she's one of the great team.
So I would say we're very encouraged.
It certainly starts with we've got great real estate and the locations we have really couldn't be better.
And now it's up to us and we've been working with our vendors a lot in the last several months.
The vast vast majority of our vendors have capabilities of distributing in Canada.
So that -- there's a handful that we have to work with to get them up there.
We really haven't gone to big hiring yet.
That's coming right after the first year at Calgary to hire the people that will work in the store hire the Canadians.
We have a solid plan on that.
As you know service is has to be needs to be our point of difference.
And we don't take that for granted especially in the foreign land for us.
So that's our focus.
Not much to report on that yet.
As for your second question on the Rack stores the Rack stores can open fairly quickly not quite as quick as here in the U.S.
but fairly quickly after that.
And we're -- we've been doing a lot of work and looking at some real estate.
There are some good locations there.
But we haven't quite finalized our opening schedule for the Rack yet.
Our next question comes from Jennifer Black with Jennifer Black &amp; Associates.
I noticed that you're running a 10 point Fashion Rewards event at Rack November 23 and 24.
And I wondered if that was in response to the promotional environment possibly getting ahead of Black Friday.
And also can you tell us what kind of response you've had to 5 Rack customers for the Fashion Rewards program? And are you seeing growth in the number of Nordstrom credit card holders at Rack and what percent of your Rack customers still hold credit cards? Hello Jennifer.
This is Mike.
I'm going to tackle those points.
In terms of the Rack customers and the Nordstrom Rewards program as you know we opened it up to our Rack customers back in January of 2012 and since then we've had roughly half of our new accounts that have been -- that have resulted from folks that the accounts have been opened at the Rack.
So we continue to see a terrific response to those customers joining the Fashion Rewards customers.
We also find that a lot of those customers tend to be a little younger and they tend to also open with our debit card.
So we're very happy with that and we see it as part of our overall event -- our overall effort to grow with our younger customers.
As far as the 10 point event that was a very limited event that was to a select group of customers.
So it wasn't any response to any major promotion.
Our next question comes from Neely Tamminga with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Erik and Pete I have some questions for you guys related just to the overall store environment.
I just don't know which one of the two of you is going to [indiscernible].
So you've definitely have done a major undertaking on kind of redesigning the Savvy department in taking that over.
I'm hearing from you still that BP or Junior is still underperforming.
Is that a next sort of major candidate to be redesigned? And then similarly to that the customer service bays at least in some of the stores we've been in have been shut down and kind of pushed out back to the store associates.
Is there an opportunity to really raise the productivity per foot by repurposing some of that dormant space? Yes.
This is Pete.
Gosh related to BP I think there's some of the residual effect from the success that we've had with Topshop and Savvy and the customers that we're trying to get after there.
I mean what we're really trying to do is not measure any of these departments so much in isolation but see how it all works together from end to end.
And I think part of our theme all along in recent history has been trying to be more compelling to young customers and attract new customers and acquire new customers.
And so it's a big state to operate in.
It's competitive.
It's dynamic.
And yes I think it's fair to say that we have got to work hard to address the issues that we have in BP.
We're just not going to sit idly by and have that business be challenged.
But it's part of how the whole thing works together with the other elements of Women's Apparel.
I think we've got a pretty good plan based on some of the recent renovations that we've been able to do in Southern California in particular that gives us a blueprint for success going forward in the stores.
In terms of customer service I think that's just part of our ongoing evolution how we can serve customers better.
And the most convenient way to serve customers is to have them be able to get the service they need wherever they want in the store rather than to go someplace special to get services provided for them.
So it's in that spirit that we've tried to enable all our departments and our salespeople to be able to handle any number of issues that a customer may have.
The byproduct of that is we might be able to repurpose some of that space and apply it in a way we have -- particularly in productive stores where we can sell more.
That would be true.
But we handle those all kind of one at a time.
And we're definitely gradually and pragmatically evolving that whole process because the last thing you want to do is have any unintended consequence of giving worse service as a result of that.
So we're being careful there.
Our next question comes from Charles Grom with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Blake when you take a step back and look at your overall comp trends year-to-date you're running up about 2.5%.
If you look a little bit further back the past 3 years from say '10 to '12 you've delivered close to an 8% comp.
And I'm just trying to get a sense for when you think about beyond the fourth quarter just over the next couple of years what's the right comp assumption for Nordstrom when you blend it all together between the Rack between HauteLook between a full-line and between e-com? Charles that's a good question.
And I think the main thing that we want to emphasize and hopefully is coming through is that it's super important that we don't get overbought and that we stay close to the customer and we maintain that flexibility.
And so it was asked earlier about our inventory and I just give our team really high marks with some of these softer sales to continue to keep the inventories fresh and current and in line so we can continue to try things and adjust.
And so when we think about our planning process it's different than our goals.
And so we talked about fourth quarter you just asked about how should we think about it for 2014.
We're going to take the trends and the facts are where we're running right now and put that in from a budget planning point of view.
But again our hope is from a goal point of view that there will be some upside.
But there's nothing today that would say to us we should dramatically change our plans.
They're tied to performance.
And so our business though in total really produces a very strong bottom line at that 8% or mid- to high-single digit comp for the total organization.
And so what we are again continuing to evolve with is ensuring that each element of this business is maximizing their opportunities.
But really where it all comes together is to allow the customers to shop on their terms between all those different channels and we think that's where the best outcome comes for the shareholder.
Charles this is Mike.
I would also add one thing.
As you know we've been reiterating that our long-term goals are to grow the top line and that's total sales at a high-single digit.
And so within that there will be variations on comp as the years go by.
But in the long run that is our overall goal.
So that's something to consider.
Our next question comes from Paul Lejuez with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just back on the topic of cannibalization as you've opened up more Rack stores I'm just wondering what you're seeing in terms of the full price for cannibalization if you're measuring that and what you're seeing.
And then just one other follow-up on the HauteLook business.
Could you just give us an update on the profitability of that business where we're looking to end up this year versus last year? Paul so this is Blake and I'll take the Rack part of it.
We've had an example or 2 where -- in an isolated situation where Rack has opened and has had a short-term slight impact on a full-line store.
But in aggregate and in total it's been synergistic and complementary.
And so we view it as a real positive.
There is a similar customer and there is also a different customer and there are some cross-channel shopping.
But to-date it's been a real positive for the company to locate Racks next to our best full-line stores and we're continuing with that strategy.
Paul this is Mike.
In terms of the question on HauteLook's profitability beginning in the third quarter of last year we started generating operating profit in HauteLook.
And we expect for the full year 2013 to generate operating profit.
We're really excited with the progress we've made there not only in our ability to continue to grow the top line through our -- through the integration we have with the rest of our business but also that we've developed a much more efficient model from the delivery and fulfillment standpoint which has allowed us to become more profitable.
So we'll give a little more color on that as we transition out of the year.
But we feel good about the progress there.
Our next question comes from Michael Binetti with UBS.
Research Division</strong> We talked earlier in the year.
I think you were surprised a little bit at how Rack sales have decelerated through the year.
If we just step back in a bigger picture here now that you've have seen quite of a gradual re-acceleration coming in what can you tell us as you guys have done some soul-searching on that what might have been holding it back? Do you think you figured it out at this point? Well this is Blake.
It's always lots of things.
I don't think there's any one thing that we would point to.
And yes you're correct we were towards the beginning of the year coming in a little bit below our plan from a comp point of view.
The new stores were continuing to exceed their plans.
And we're pleased during the third quarter that it's gotten closer in range with our budget and it's improved.
But there just are a number of initiatives that that team has been working on and continues to work on.
That's a very fluid and dynamic business.
And every day there's a whole host of challenges and opportunities.
And so it's encouraging to us to see that improve.
And again we've got to execute that through this busy time period in the fourth quarter and going forward.
But at this juncture we're really pleased how the customer is responding to that.
But there isn't one that I would call out.
We did mention from an inventory point of view the pack-and-hold subject and that has been a real plus to the business to be able to help turn the corner by season quicker to be able to open the amount of new stores that we have in a fresh and compelling way and to really provide some sizes in some of the top merchandise in our stores.
So that's been a strategic advantage so far.
Research Division</strong> And if I could just ask one follow-up.
Could we talk a little bit about the merchandise plan in the cold weather categories for the next few months? You guys stand out as really having done a great job in the past making brands like UGGs and others in boots really really big in the winter when weather was even close to normal.
So that's been a struggle for everybody for a couple of years.
How do you think about setting the inventories for this year and how much you'll be able to chase sales if weather is normal? This is Pete.
I think we give our teams a lot of credit for partnering with vendors because we're all dealing with the same issues.
And I think any way that we can collaborate together to make most efficient use of inventory is the way to go.
And UGG as an example it's a big business for us but we've been doing business together for a while and I think that every year it gets a little bit better in terms of the predictive modeling and how to flow inventory in the most efficient way.
So we're doing well there.
I think we fully expect that in the seasonal categories that it's going to be good for us.
All indications are right now is from coats to boots or what have you that's all going well.
Our next question comes from Liz Dunn with Macquarie.
First just a follow-up on that -- the Rack pack-and-hold.
So is there a percentage of the inventory that you'll -- that you're looking to move to in that pack-and-hold category in Rack? And does that mean that's just necessarily the entire inventory turns for the organizational slowdown? So this is Blake.
We have approximately $174 million in that pack-and-hold classification.
It is from last year up considerably because as we're newer into this process and ramping up.
But that's pretty fluid.
And then for the total we're very comfortable with the percentage how it fits in there.
And the Rack merchandising team we think is really deploying it well.
So at this juncture it's a positive to the total.
But it does have an impact from last year as we move it up.
And there's a little bit of an apples and oranges.
Hence why we've been calling it out but so far so good.
And our next question comes from Paul Swinand with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to just get a little bit more about the online and I know everybody's in the thinking and agreement that online and the stores are synergistic.
But are there some categories of goods that will just always be sold in stores like coats? In other words are you seeing a pattern that certain items are bought more prevalently online and certain items are always more prevalent in the stores? Paul this is Jamie.
That's a good question.
I think we talked a lot about that in previous years as our online business was still in its infancy.
And I think at every corner we've discovered that no that customers -- particularly our customers they love fashion they love freshness they love to see something new.
And increasingly as we're seeing customers are using e-commerce and our website to find out what the new trend is and what's hot and [indiscernible] where they end up choosing to actually buy that item whether it's on our website or on their phone or coming into our store we want to make that as great an experience as possible.
So we don't really think about channel conflicts or channel shifts we think about our customer and how they want to shop and how can we create a great environment for them.
Our next question comes from Richard Jaffe with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions.
One the Direct business has done very well and it appears that you're offering a lot more product that's to say more customer choices online than in stores.
Could you quantify that the additional either SKUs or choices that are available online versus stores? And then I have a quick follow-on.
Yes.
I don't have the most recent numbers.
But it's in the -- we'll call it a 50% increase roughly this year versus last year in terms of the breadth of offering on our website.
And I think what you'll see today is on our website just about everything we offer in our stores with very very few exceptions.
And then in certain categories we're offering brands and styles that we don't have in our stores not because we wouldn't want to carry that merchandise but because we just don't have the space.
And there's a lot of great brands of footwear or Women's Apparel out there that we can't get to in our stores but can in our website and customers have responded.
So we think that there's a lot of runway left for us on expanding that selection and we'll be focused on that over the next couple of years.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Any limits to that [indiscernible] a multiple of what you have in stores? No.
I don't think we can really put a number on it.
I think we need to make sure that we do a good job of creating an online experience through navigation and personalization that makes a much larger assortment easy to navigate and fun to shop.
And so we've got to make sure that our investments along those lines keep up commensurate with the growth in our selection.
And that's what our plan reflects.
And our next question comes from Stephen Grambling with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up on Paul's question earlier you had mentioned Women's Juniors is one of the more challenged categories in full-line.
Does that differ versus the Direct channel versus in-store for that category in particular? It's been relatively consistent across all channels for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one other follow-up is just on the gross margin line.
It just seems like based on the D&amp;A deleverage and occupancy deleverage gross margin would have been potentially up.
I'm just wondering maybe I'm off there and any kind of color you can provide.
Well yes.
Stephen this is Mike.
We still would not have seen I would say expansion in gross profit percent because we do have the impact of the additional occupancy costs that's flowing through there.
So I would say it's safe to say that at best that would have been even.
Our next question comes from Dana Telsey with Telsey Advisory Group.
Can you -- as you think about this upcoming holiday season with the 6 fewer days how do you see this shorter holiday season differ than others in the past that have been shorter? And are there any calendar shifts and event timing this year as compared to last year? I guess I'll take it.
This is Pete.
I don't think we really think that the calendar is going to pose any significant changes for us and we don't have any different plans in terms of the rhythm of our business and what we're doing.
All of the things that we've talked about there's a bunch of little things that we're trying to improve on to add up to a better experience.
And I think the fact that our inventories have been in really good shape all year long is probably the best indicator of optimism for us coming into the holiday season because we have a lot of newness.
We're not bogged down with a bunch of clearance which for us usually isn't the most important inventory.
The most important inventory for us is new [ph] and so those plans are all going forward.
And I think that it should be very similar to last year just in terms of the rhythm of it all.
Dana just -- I would add just one more thing.
This is Mike.
We've looked at this over the years and years where we've had more days and years where we've had less days.
And we tend to see that the overall shopping bag is relatively the same.
So we plan accordingly and we expect a good holiday season.
Our next question comes from Barbara Wyckoff with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk about the premium denim business? What is the trend like? And have you seen any actions in some of these newer silhouettes like the Baby Boot and Skinny Flare? The premium denim business has held up well.
We've had good success both in Men's and Women's.
And I think in terms of specific styles that you're talking about I don't really have any color to add to that.
And our final question comes from Rob Wilson with Tiburon Research.
Inc.</strong> Mike can you go back to that HauteLook profitability question? Can you confirm that it's been profitable thus far for the first 3 quarters of the year? Yes from an operating profit standpoint it has.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And one last question.
On Topshop merchandise does that merchandise have a higher or lower merchandise margin than the remainder of the store? I'm really not going to get into that in detail because frankly the relationship and the collaboration we have with Topshop is somewhat unique.
We do have a wholesale relationship with them but it's -- I would just say it's different maybe than the other relationships we have.
I would say probably one of the things that's important to contemplate when talking about Topshop is just not what the pure margin is but the degree to which that margin is new or accretive and also the degree to which it's bringing in new and different customers which we know to be true.
So that's -- when you kind of view the totality it's definitely been a positive -- very positive thing for us.
Thank you for joining us today.
As a reminder a webcast replay of this call along with our slide presentation will be available for 1 year on the Investor Relations section of nordstrom.com under Webcasts.
In addition we provided an overview of our performance and growth strategy at the end of our slide presentation.
Thank you for your interest in Nordstrom.
Goodbye.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for participating and you may now disconnect.
Hello and welcome to the Nordstrom 2013 Fourth Quarter Conference Call.
At the request of Nordstrom today's conference call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to introduce Rob Campbell Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations for Nordstrom.
You may begin sir.
Hello everyone and thank you for joining us.
Today's earnings call will last 45 minutes and will include about 30 minutes for your questions.
As a reminder all forward-looking statements on this call are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from the expectations and assumptions discussed due to a variety of factors that affect the company including the risks specified in the company's most recently filed Forms 10-K and 10-Q.
Participating in today's call are Blake Nordstrom President of Nordstrom Inc.; and Mike Koppel Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer who will discuss the company's fourth quarter and full year performance and outlook for fiscal 2014.
Joining during the Q&amp;A session will be Pete Nordstrom President of Merchandising; Erik Nordstrom President of Stores; and Jamie Nordstrom President of Direct.
Before we begin I want to mention that Blake and Mike will be using slides which can be viewed by going to nordstrom.com in the Investor Relations tab.
With that I'll turn the call over to Blake.
Thank you Rob and good afternoon everyone.
As we take a moment to reflect on 2013 it was a year in which customers clearly demonstrated their increasing desire for speed and convenience whether online or in stores.
It also was a year in which the impact of e-commerce became more apparent in terms of customers' broader acceptance and usage to research to transact and to facilitate purchases across channels.
If anything the pace of change is accelerating faster than we anticipated a year ago.
For example with estimates of nearly 200 million mobile devices in the U.S.
today they rapidly have become an integral part of consumers' everyday lives.
It strongly validates the strategic path we embarked on nearly a decade ago in laying the foundation by making investments to provide a differentiated customer experience in a multichannel environment.
We believe there is tremendous value in having a platform for serving customers that encompasses full price and off-price in-store and online.
Each of these channels represents substantial opportunity individually.
There also is significant potential in the way they can work together in creating a unique customer experience with enablers such as product loyalty technology and personalization that we are utilizing across channels.
We made substantial progress in many ways during the year.
Our Direct business finished its third consecutive year of at least 30% top line growth.
A key driver was increased merchandise selection which grew 30% this year after expanding by 50% a year ago.
1 million new customers were acquired via our online business similar to 2012.
We saw mobile and tablet usage continue to grow.
We offered more recommendations based on purchase history and we increased the speed of fulfillment and delivery.
As our online business expands we're increasing our capacity to enable a greater service experience.
Last fall we doubled our daily fulfillment capacity to 300 000 units.
More recently we opened a fulfillment center in San Bernardino to serve HauteLook and the Rack.
And last month we announced plans for a fulfillment center on the East Coast.
By 2015 we'll have 3x the capacity we had in 2012.
In the Rack we're serving more customers in existing stores and in the 22 stores that opened during the year which contributed to a 12% increase in total sales.
Collectively our new store performance is in line with our expectations and our total Rack sales productivity remains strong at $550 per square foot.
Our integration with HauteLook has increased an example of which is the ability to return HauteLook merchandise to any of our Rack locations.
Today a good portion of HauteLook returns come to a Rack store.
This drives thousands of customers to the Rack each week.
And of those making a return many leave with a Rack purchase.
In addition as of a few months ago the Rack can fulfill the demand in one store through the inventory in another and deliver it to the customer.
This feature mirrors the service we've offered in our full-line stores for a number of years.
Our full-line store sales fell short of expectations but we have ongoing initiatives around product service and the store environment to elevate the customer experience.
Our plan to enhance our relevance with existing and new customers in part was demonstrated in our Women's Apparel business which continued to experience positive momentum during the year.
We expanded Topshop to 41 stores from 14 at the start of the year and repositioned our Savvy department to offer on-trend fashion at more accessible price points.
Both have attracted new and younger customers while reflecting newness in fashion that have a halo effect across the entire offering.
Recent remodels have created energy through a more clean and updated look.
They've established more flexible floor space that enable us to respond more quickly to emerging trends while allowing for more continuous shopping between departments.
The ongoing evolution of retail is exciting with the accelerated growth of e-commerce the continuing importance of stores and the increasing customer interaction between channels.
As this unfolds we're taking steps to ensure that our allocation of capital is aligned with our growth.
We're also making adjustments to better support our multichannel growth strategy and achieve greater execution.
As we turn to 2014 we anticipate considerable progress across multiple fronts: first enhance the full-line store experience with ongoing efforts around product service and store environment; open 3 full-line stores including Calgary our first store in Canada which will open in September along with Jacksonville and a second store in Houston; offer even greater selection online with an increased level of personalization; open 27 Rack stores and continue to find opportunities for further integration with HauteLook; finally apply greater focus on building synergies in our multichannel platform through leveraging our shared assets such as loyalty technology and marketing.
We strongly believe in the customer strategy we're in the midst of executing.
We're focused squarely on improving the customer experience and the sustainable platform for long-term profitable growth that it's enabling.
We're encouraged by the progress we've achieved to date and the multiple opportunities ahead of us.
We look forward to keeping you updated as we go throughout the year.
With that I'll turn it over to Mike.
Thanks Blake.
Before commenting on our financial performance I'd like to reinforce comments Blake made around the accelerated pace of change.
It's very clear that advancements in technology and specifically in e-commerce are redefining the customer experience across all channels.
It's happening at a pace that's even faster than we anticipated a year ago.
In one sense it increases our confidence in the strategic path forward and validates our efforts to provide our customers a best-in-class experience both in-store and online and through our full-price and off-price channels.
It also reminds us that speed is important while being flexible enough to make adjustments as we respond to customers' heightened expectations.
Turning to our financial performance.
Our full year earnings per diluted share of $3.71 exceeded our prior outlook of $3.65 to $3.70 and fell within the range of our initial annual guidance of $3.65 to $3.80 that we provided a year ago.
These results included a nonrecurring charge of $14 million or $0.04 in earnings per diluted share related to our recent debt transaction that lowered our overall cost of borrowing and extended maturity.
Additionally we delivered return on invested capital of 13.6% while increasing our capital investments by over 50% this year.
We achieved a milestone with over $12 billion in sales representing an increase of 4.9% over last year when adjusting for the 53rd week in 2012.
Same-store sales increased 2.5% for the year which was consistent with our prior outlook but below our annual plan.
The impact of softer top line trends was mitigated by consistent execution throughout the year in inventory and expenses.
As we exit the year our inventory is at an appropriate level reflecting planned investments to fuel growth in stores and online.
Next I'd like to talk about our path forward.
We believe strongly in the customer strategy we're currently implementing and its ability to generate long-term top-quartile shareholder returns.
We've stated that as a result of our planned growth with anticipated double-digit increases in depreciation and rent in the near term we don't expect EBIT margin expansion over the next several years.
However EBITDAR which excludes these components is expected to grow roughly in line with sales.
This provides a clear indication of our underlying performance and together with total sales growth and ROIC are markers for continued value creation.
In our efforts to serve existing and new customers we expect roughly half of our sales to come from our online and Rack businesses over the next several years compared to 38% today.
As our business model evolves with growing volume across a number of channels our financial model needs to evolve as well.
There are dynamics associated with our growth in each channel that I'd like to touch on briefly.
First we expect our online business to remain our fastest-growing channel generating high EBIT growth and returns.
The outside sales growth demonstrated over the past several years in part reflects benefits from the investments we've been making.
We plan to continue elevating the customer experience online and able through investments in our technology platform fulfillment capabilities and personalization.
With the Rack which achieved high sales productivity EBIT margins and returns we plan to grow this business from 140 stores today to roughly 230 stores by 2016.
During this time approximately 40% of the Rack store base will have opened in the past 3 years.
In the near term this accelerated pace of store expansion will result in higher occupancy expenses as a percent of sales in addition to the impact of greater preopening rent expense.
With full-line stores we anticipate moderating sales trends with fewer store openings.
In response we are focusing on opportunities to improve our 4-Wall productivity as well as making adjustments to our remodel strategy.
And finally with respect to Canada we are beginning with 6 full-line stores.
We believe this market ultimately represents a $1 billion sales opportunity with value-creating returns.
Achieving this requires meaningful infrastructural investments.
As a result we expect this business to remain EPS dilutive for several years until we reach necessary scale.
While these channels present various operating dynamics we believe our enterprise assets such as our loyalty program marketing and technology will serve to create a customer experience that leverages all channels.
Our financial position remains strong.
For 5 consecutive years we've generated cash flow from operations in excess of $1 billion while maintaining a balance of reinvesting in the business and returning value to shareholders.
Part of the financial model evolution includes revising the allocation of capital investments to more closely align with our growth.
Our capital plan of $3.9 billion for 2014 through 2018 represents a substantial increase from the $2.2 billion of the previous 5-year period and reflects the aggressive online and store growth we anticipate.
Technology investments account for over 30% of our plan up from roughly 20% historically.
Stores continue to represent the core of our brand.
We are finding ways to reinvest that allows stores to be refreshed more efficiently by letting the customer experience rather than the age of the store drive the process.
With this approach we believe we can significantly reduce our remodel investment per square foot while enhancing the overall store environment.
Finally I'd like to turn to our 2014 outlook.
Our plan for earnings per diluted share of $3.75 to $3.90 incorporates expected total sales growth of 5.5% to 7.5%.
We are planning a same-store sales increase of 2% to 4% based on our current trends.
This assumes a low- to mid-single-digit increase on a multichannel basis reflecting consistent trends at full-line stores and roughly a 25% increase at Direct and HauteLook and a low-single-digit increase in the Rack with total sales growth in the mid-teens.
Other considerations include the impact of our initial entry into Canada for which we estimate an EBIT loss of approximately $35 million primarily representing our infrastructure investments and pre-opening costs.
Our 2014 outlook also includes the acceleration of Rack store growth and increased technology investments to improve service and experience across all channels.
These investments are contributing to our overall depreciation and rent expense growth of approximately 14% in 2014.
Please also refer to the earnings release for timing considerations contemplated in our outlook including additional color on expected first quarter performance.
We look forward to providing updates on our progress throughout the year.
With that I'll turn the call over to Rob.
Thank you Mike.
[Operator Instructions] Elan we'll take the first question.
Our first question today is from Jessica Schmidt from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> This is Jessica on for Ed.
Can you just talk about the changes if any that you've made to your at once inventory purchases? Have you decreased your percent of inventory that you purchased through preorders I guess leaving more open to buys during the season? And then how should we think about your inventory strategy going forward? Well Jessica this is Mike.
In terms of our overall inventory strategy going forward we continue to look for opportunities to improve the turns in order to assure that we have new receipts and fresh product available to our customers.
In addition we've made some relatively aggressive changes to our plans in the Rack where we've gone out and purchased inventory at an advantageous way in order to drive business in subsequent seasons.
So we expect to continue to look for those opportunities and in addition increasing the assortments online.
So from an overall strategic point of view that's what we plan.
In terms of your specific question I'm...
Well Mike this is Blake.
I just would add that from an aging point of view as well we measured that closely through your team and we have not seen any material change.
And that a matter of fact our inventories are as current and as fresh as they've been in the past and so we're encouraged by that.
Okay.
Yes does that answer your question? Because I'm not sure I understand maybe what else you were asking.
Research Division</strong> Yes I think that that answers it.
I'll pass on.
Our next question is from Kimberly Greenberger from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> My question is on the channel shift that seems to be happening between the full-line stores and e-commerce.
Obviously the e-commerce growth of 30% last year was really fantastic.
Full-line comps down 2.1%.
It looks like the net between the 2 is a small increase.
But I'm wondering if maybe you can just sort of step back and talk to us about this financial implication of -- on the operating margin of this channel shift.
And then I just had one clarification on one of your earlier comments as a follow-up.
Sure Kim this is Mike.
In terms of the "channel shift " I just want to start by saying we still look at this as a customer strategy and not necessarily a strategy that's focused around individual channels in our business.
But that being said the reality is both channels do operate different.
The stores tend to be much more capital intensive have a higher fixed cost and require certain levels of sales to leverage that fixed cost where the direct channel has a much more variable cost model.
And so clearly on the way up it does generate more cost.
But it also on the way down when it softens it also gives some of that back.
So that being said is we believe that we have opportunities to improve the productivity in our 4-Wall model particularly full-line.
We touched on that a little bit in terms of some of the changes we're making in our remodel strategy.
And we're also looking at ways that we can improve the productivity within those stores.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's super helpful.
And just a clarification you mentioned I think in your prepared remarks that you don't expect operating margin expansion over the next several years.
I'm wondering is that using 2013 as sort of a baseline year or 2014 as your baseline year? Well I would say it's -- we're assuming 2014 because that's the current year that we're talking about.
Our next question is from Jennifer Black from Jennifer Black &amp; Associates.
I wondered if you could quantify the impact of the recent change you made in your Fashion Rewards program as far as alterations.
It seems like it could be significant as far as driving traffic across channels.
And do you think customers understand the strategy? I mean I know I understand it.
Some people thought they're losing a benefit but it seems like it could be really beneficial.
And then I have a follow-up on Activewear.
Well yes Jennifer.
This is Mike.
I mean basically that change was a result of a couple of things.
We were looking at the overall economics and the offer to the customer as well as trying to make it more convenient.
But that being said we have heard back from our customers about that change and we're evaluating it and trying to best understand what would be the best product and benefits that we can offer.
But in terms of significant change in traffic at this point we don't see anything driving additional.
That being said last year we did add another 1 million new accounts to our Nordstrom Rewards program and we accelerated the penetration to over 38% of our business.
So we're still seeing some pretty good growth in that loyalty program.
Well you have an awesome program.
My follow-up is on Activewear which is one of the fastest growing categories across the board and Zella looks amazing.
And I just wondered what you're doing to capitalize on the lifestyle shift that's been occurring over the last couple of years.
I saw that you've introduced Zella PRO.
Are you going to expand the department and categories? Are you adding line extensions? Are you thinking about Men's? Just anything you could say would be great.
Yes this is Pete.
I think we're happy with the momentum and the trajectory we have in Active.
And you're right it's a good classification and there certainly is an opportunity in Men's as well.
And I think you'll see that will increase our inventory ownership in active-type products.
We're definitely trying to figure out how to update our -- the environment with the active department so that it definitely has a stand-alone feel and lets customers know that we're serious about being in that business in the year-round way which is we've done for a long long time.
But I think that we continue just to stay close to it.
And like all our departments that we have we try to give them the opportunity to grow when that opportunity exists in whatever classification.
And so yes I think active is something that we're definitely confident with.
And Zella which you mentioned in particular one of our MPG brands has done super well.
We plan on growing that further this next year.
Our next question is from Barbara Wyckoff from CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I'm encouraged by the strength in more contemporary Women's Apparel.
But could you talk about if anything is going on in more classic clothes? What's going on in Brass Plum? And then also could you comment on the strength of casual versus more dressed-up looks? Yes this is Pete.
I think related to what would be kind of more of an updated kind of classic-type look not just pure contemporary interestingly for us our studio department had a really really good year and that is bridged-price-point-type clothes but more leaning towards classic as you called it styling.
And that did almost nearly as well as the individuals department which features more of the contemporary brand.
So I think a lot of it is about where we have strong national branded representation in our stores.
If we can get behind that in a meaningful way customers are really responding strongly to brands.
And that's been the case in both individuals and the studio area.
I think just generally across the board with Women's everything feels like it needs to be evolving and made more modern even if it's more classic in nature.
When we've been able to do that been good for the business all the way around.
I'm sorry and the rest of the parts of your question? Research Division</strong> About Brass Plum what's going on there? Yes BP our Women's Junior area that continued to be difficult.
It's an ongoing thing for us.
I think there's some environmental things we can improve on and the in-store experience the customer experience there.
We've tried a lot of things.
And we definitely have we think an improved way of executing.
And then in terms of product the good news is is that all turns pretty quickly.
And we have a really good team there and they feel confident we're going to have some improvement.
If you look at just the trajectory of where we've been while the business has been difficult it is moving in the right direction.
So I think we're encouraged that it's going to improve but it's still even at this time on the -- towards the bottom for us.
And then lastly the other one was what? Casual versus dressed up.
Casual versus dressed up.
Well I think the customer places a lot of value on versatile clothes and being able to have things work for multiple occasions.
So I think things that are dressed up for the sake of being dressed up may be what we would have classified in the past as like wear-to-work clothes.
That's -- it's just kind of a different story today particularly in Women's.
I think there's a lot more flexibility.
When we can bring things in that have some flexibility for someone's job or lifestyle or whatever they're doing that's when we seem to do best.
Our next question is from Charles Grom from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Just on the commentary regarding the first quarter sales.
Should we expect comps to be up say flat to up 2%? And then just on the fourth quarter I'm just wondering if you could share how the quarter-to-date shook out across channels? Sure yes.
Chuck this is Mike.
Yes you're right in your numbers.
Q1 looks like it's roughly flat to 2% comp overall the way we've calendarized that out.
And in terms of the holiday period we definitely had I would say better than trend sales in the month of November and in the first half of December.
Sales started to soften up around the holiday and it continued soft post-Holiday and through January.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on a follow-up Mike just gross profit margins down the past couple of years.
How should we think about that over the next 2 years? It seemed -- there seem to be some pressure points from promotional activities and certainly from the Rack.
Should we expect margins to be down in the next couple of years gross margins? Well we don't normally give outlook beyond the current year we're talking about.
But I think it's safe to say when you look at the -- at where the growth in our business is coming from particularly with the Rack Rack tends to have a lower merchandise margin and a lower operating expense.
And so you're seeing a geographical shift there.
And we've also seen a little bit of pressure over the last probably 2 years from the loyalty program where you see the cost of that program ends up in our -- in cost of goods sold.
So those would be probably the 2 most significant ones.
In terms of the promotion while that had some impact it really hasn't been I would say materially measurable compared to those other 2 components.
Our next question is from Neely Tamminga from Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you guys can enlighten us a little bit more on some of your mobile strategy for 2014.
We obviously saw the HauteLook-developed Rack app from this fall but it's not yet commerce enabled.
Kind of what are you thinking there? And then can we see some further elevation on your smartphone app to really integrate I think better the loyalty with -- for your core customer in the core Nordstrom app? Jamie can you take that question please? Yes sure.
Neely this is Jamie.
I think we're focused on mobile quite a bit right now.
It's definitely increasing the terms of the amount of traffic we're getting as well as in our sales.
What's interesting for us is that we've got a lot of customers right now who are only interacting with our brand because they're new to our brand or they're younger through their phone.
We've got to make sure that the experience they have with us through their phone is a good one.
So we're investing a lot in that.
You're going to see some pretty big improvements to our mobile site later this spring we'll be rolling out.
And yes we've been learning a lot through our off-sale -- or sorry our off-price business in terms of how customers want to use their phones to shop.
And so we're putting a lot of those ideas to work and we're pretty encouraged by a lot of those investments so far.
Our next question is from Stephen Grambling from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So just given the accelerated growth in the Rack can you provide any detail on how these stores mature across sales and profitability on a 4-Wall basis? They tend to reach the maturity curve somewhere in the 3- to 4-year range.
Research Division</strong> And so that will be both sales and profitability? No I would say profitability over time tends to leverage as you start to work through the upfront costs of the store buildout and some of those other fixed costs.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as a follow-up just as we think about CapEx longer term you did mention that e-commerce should ultimately be a lower capital cost.
And it looks like you'll be spending -- you'll be over the spending hump as it relates to the prior 5-year outlook.
So how should we be thinking about CapEx beyond this year? Well in terms of the 5-year cadence clearly the next couple of years will be the peak years.
And what's driving the -- a big portion of that really is the investment in Canada with the rollout of the 6 stores in Canada and then some of the buildup in Manhattan.
Technology also for the I would say the first roughly 2 to 3 years of the plan is from what we can see today is at its peak level.
But I think we have to be cautious in that things are changing.
There's a lot of newness that keeps coming out.
And our line of sight in that world is really only roughly a 2- to 3-year period.
And so to say that we're going to reach a peak and then it's going to stop I think would be misleading on our part.
Our next question is from Oliver Chen from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Regarding your callout on the promotional environment that we've seen in the marketplace has that dynamic let up as you look forward? And also the promotional markdowns in terms of increased markdowns is that across different banners that you had? Or where was that focused? The follow-up for me is on the full-line comps and the trends there.
Does your guidance incorporate a continuation of what you're seeing now? This is Pete.
I think it's fair to say that the increased promotional activity that happened in December was more than we had expected and an area of concern for us going forward.
And there are some things that we can do to mitigate that given our ability to have relative exclusives with the brands that we operate with our own branded product which is a growing part of our business.
But it's a world that we live in.
And with the way that Direct works now and all the information available to customers if something is online and it's marked down and it's available to everybody then we got to be competitive everywhere too particularly given the fact that we've got a completely aligned and synergistic merchandise strategy between Direct and in-store.
So yes it's a real issue.
And I think that we -- it's given us an opportunity to partner with our large vendors more and talk about that.
And it's a sensitive subject as you might anticipate.
But yes it's definitely of concern for us.
We don't -- I guess I would say about that we don't have any increased plans around promotion.
But we will continue as we've always had a philosophy around not being undersold on the exact same product.
And I think it's important that we're transparent with our vendors and with customers about that.
And Oliver on the second part of your question on full-line comps the guidance does take into account current trends through the first quarter of this year and then we expect some improvement as the year progresses.
Our next question is from Paul Trussell from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned that Canada I believe the dilution was about $35 million or so expected for '14 to the EBIT line up from the $14 million this past year.
Just as we go forward and you open up additional doors how should we think about the direction of that impact to the P&amp;L? Well directionally over the next roughly 3 years as we're opening the new stores we should see that impact grow.
And then as we get to the point where we're fully comping those stores we'll start to see it become accretive.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just to follow up on a comment you just made on the full-line stores.
You mentioned -- if you can just give me a little bit more detail around some of your in-store initiatives there.
I just visited one of your newly remodeled stores in Tampa that looked very good.
Could you speak some of the expected returns from these investments you're making to improve the full-line doors? Sure.
Erik can you take that question please? Sure.
Well I would first of all reiterate an earlier comment that the first thing we would look at is the customer strategy how do we serve the customer best which may sound obvious but it's easy to get stuck into protecting one channel versus the other.
Channel is something -- I've never heard a customer use the word channel.
They want the experience they want.
We have great assets online.
We have great assets in our stores and our opportunity -- our challenge is to leverage those assets to serve the customer better.
For stores I think you can bucket our efforts into 3: one is product; two is the in-store experience; and three the environment.
And it's briefly around products.
You touched on some of them.
We have momentum in Women's Apparel the changes of adding Topshop changing Savvy has allowed our mix -- total Women's business to be much more compelling and we're on a good path on that one.
We've also been focusing on tentpole brands big national brands all through our stores that not only having more breadth and depth with them but highlighted them more to ease the navigation in our store so customers understand these brands.
They understand how our stores are organized better.
The in-store experience there's services where we must win and that certainly includes our traditional high-touch approach things like our get connected program.
Our personal stylists which we've talked about for a couple of years now continue to grow.
We still have unmet demand with customers who want to be served at a very high touch way and that's a good fit for us.
But a lot of it is changing.
Some of it's technology.
We've been rolling out what would be awesome [ph] devices.
We have tablets to make our POS completely mobile.
This gives us much more functionality and security with our customer information.
And then I think the real new bucket the interesting bucket is the synergies with Direct things like for a couple of years they've been taking online returns in our stores.
And even though online returns are free for customers most customers prefer to bring their online returns to our stores.
That's a win for the customer experience and it's a win for us in being more traffic in our stores.
We think there's a lot more to be done there.
They're really scratching the surface.
And ultimately this could be the field where stores are really [indiscernible] win or loss that can we through our store assets make the online experience better and vice versa? So there's lots going on there.
Then lastly store environment [indiscernible] that you talked about we continue to see good lift from our store remodel investments.
And actually the last 2 years our lifts have been a little better than they've historically been.
So you mentioned Tampa.
We have a number of remodels last year that we've seen very good performance with.
In general I would say that the direction of having more flexibility to our space has helped greatly in showing us these national brands showing us some of our products and it's helped the customer navigate easier.
And it has also helped us to keep our stores fresh.
We've added things in some of the bigger stores like pop-up shops and having flexible space allows us to do that.
So we still have an investment plan to refresh our stores.
As Mike touched on we need to be more efficient with that and we think we have found ways to do that.
We learned some things with last year to where we can update our stores more cost effectively.
But we continued to see a nice sales bump from when we do remodel our stores.
Our next question is from Paul Lejuez from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> On merchandise margins can you just talk about what the merch margin decline was during the fourth quarter? And I think this might have been asked earlier I'm not sure if I caught the answer but what did that look like in full-price versus Rack and even if you can talk about e-comm? And then just a follow-up can you just remind us what percentage of your stores full-line stores are mall versus street locations and how the -- each of those performed? Yes Paul this is Mike.
We don't specifically break out merchandise margin from gross profit.
But what I will directionally share with you is that the decrease in the gross profit a portion of that was related to merchandise margin.
The other portion was related to the mix and the Rack as well as the Fashion Rewards program.
In terms of breaking it out most of the -- really all of the pressure in merch margin was from a regular priced business where we saw most of the promotional activity and that was reflected both in the stores and online where we tried to maintain consistent pricing and respond consistently across channels.
And then I think your other question about mall versus standalone I mean other than our major downtown urban stores most of our full-line store base is all mall based.
And as far as drawing any kind of pattern between the sales performances I don't think there was anything significantly different.
Our next question is from Robert Drbul from Nomura Securities.
Research Division</strong> I just have 2 questions actually.
The first one is on the pack and hold inventory at the Rack.
Can you just talk about what you're seeing and like the opportunities that are out there and how you're capitalizing on that? And then the second question is how did the Seahawks' run impact your business in the fourth quarter last year? And how should we think about that for the fourth quarter this year? I'd like to hear your forecast on that.
We need a repeat performance by the Seahawks.
Well one of the things they taught us during holiday season was we needed a better defense.
Go ahead Blake.
So Bob this is Blake and I'll start with the Rack and the pack and hold.
That's something that's been -- we've been pleasantly pleased or surprised with on the upside as we have enhanced the Rack store count.
One of the things we're extremely sensitive to is the mix and availability of the product that we aspire to carry for our customers.
And we've just been able to really enhance the partnership with our top vendors and get first call and get better access and pack and hold is a way to leverage that partnership.
And so it enables us to provide the best product and improve flow for the customer.
It also is a great facility for us as we opened these new stores to open a new store with the right content of inventory.
So that's been growing with the availability and it's really really working well.
So we give that high marks and we're encouraged by that access and how the customer is responding to it.
And the Seahawks we did benefit at least here in Seattle that anything that had Seahawk related to it gloves hats or T-shirt sold really well.
The flip side to that when the game itself was on tough on the business and there was a huge parade that following week that was a little tough too.
So but overall the pride in the city of Seattle is terrific and everyone's really excited about the Seahawks.
Our final question today is from Michael Binetti from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Could you -- I apologize if I missed this a little bit.
But is there any way you could talk a little bit about the gross margin cadence for the year and how we should think about the first quarter? I see the inventory up.
I see that it's largely for strategic reasons.
But we do know there's more promotional holiday for the industry.
I just want to think about maybe the first half of the year versus the back half on the grosses.
And then I had a follow-up.
Yes Michael we normally don't give that kind of guidance by quarter as it relates to margin.
But what I will do is address your question on the inventory levels.
And the increase I think you're looking at is on a sales per square foot.
We're up about 9% in inventory and then sales were up in low-single digits.
And there's 2 primary drivers to that.
One is what Blake talked about is the continuing investment in the pack and hold.
And the other thing really is a function of timing.
You may recall last year was the 53rd week so we had 5 weeks in the month of January.
And the last week of the month we basically had more reductions to our inventory than we did have adds to the inventory.
And so that's kind of a phenomenon that happens with that 53rd week.
And so if you look at the period -- the year before and then the period right now the increases in inventory are roughly the same.
So we feel good about it.
And as Blake said earlier our aging is in really good shape.
And by the way the amount of clearance inventory we have right now is the lowest it's been in 5 years so that's really not an issue for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Is there -- can I just follow that up real quickly? Sure go ahead.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the -- I think if we think a little bit further out into the year if I look over the last few years I'm wondering if there's any change to the strategy related to the annual sale events with the full-price business.
And I asked because it hasn't sounded like you've been excited about those events the past few years and commented that's really not what drives excitement for that full-price customer.
So as we kind of start getting into the year and start thinking about those events have you guys changed your thinking about that at all? This is Pete.
I would say well we have 2 different events one is the half-yearly sale which obviously we have 2 of those.
And those are kind of a pure clearance event.
They have become less and less important to us over the years because we take markdowns in a more timely fashion rather than kind of wait up for a period of time and that's actually played out really well.
If you just look at our margin performance over the year that's been the right way to do it.
So we -- as you probably heard us talk about a lot the main thrust of our focus is to try to get new products in there and sell at full price.
Our customers seem to prefer that and that's what works well for our business.
But the markdowns are a reality of just the business that we're in.
The other event is the anniversary sale that happens in July.
And I would guess on the -- well not guess I would tell you for sure on the contrary to why we have kind of the celebrating thing happening at half-yearly clearance sale is the anniversary sale is something that we apply a lot of energy to.
Our customers love it.
We intend to keep growing it and making it as great as it can possibly be.
It's great for our business.
We generate a lot of sales during a slow period of time and customers really love it and it engenders a lot of excitement and loyalty to our business because it's such a great opportunity for them to buy terrific brands at great prices.
Thank you for joining us today.
As a reminder a webcast replay of this call along with our slide presentation will be available for 1 year on the Investor Relations section of nordstrom.com under Webcasts.
In addition there's an overview of our performance and growth strategy at the end of our slide presentation.
Thanks for your interest in Nordstrom.
Bye.
Thank you and this does conclude today's conference.
You may disconnect at this time.
Hello and welcome to the Nordstrom First Quarter Conference Call.
At the request of Nordstrom today's conference call is being recorded.
(Operator Instructions) And I would now like to introduce Rob Campbell Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations for Nordstrom.
You may begin sir.
Hello everyone and thank you for joining us.
Today's earnings call will last 45 minutes and will include about 30 minutes for your questions.
As we get started I'd like to refer you to the slide showing our Safe Harbor Language regarding forward-looking statements.
Participating in today's call are Blake Nordstrom President of Nordstrom Inc.; and Mike Koppel Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer who will discuss the Company's first quarter performance and outlook for fiscal 2014.
Joining during the Q&amp;A session will be Pete Nordstrom President of Merchandising; Erik Nordstrom President of Stores; and Jamie Nordstrom President of Direct.
Before we begin I want to mention that Blake and Mike will be using Slides which can be viewed by going to nordstrom.com in the Investor Relations tab.
With that I'll turn the call over to Blake.
Thank you Rob and good afternoon everyone.
Our first quarter earnings performance was above our expectations.
Comparable sales improved in each month of the quarter highlighted by the continued outside growth for our online business and accelerating sales trend in the Rack.
This was partly offset by ongoing softness in full-line store sales consistent with what we've experienced in 2013.
Mikes upcoming comments on this call will provide additional detail on the quarter.
Along with those we'd like to show a broader perspective of our business including a current example of the progress we're making thats indicative of our strategic direction.
And then conclude with a few comments on our announcement regarding our credit receivables.
We continue to focus on the execution of our customer strategy with our in-store or online full price of off-price.
At its core its about providing a superior customer experience with our investments and efforts directed toward one Nordstrom approach that creates synergies and leverages shared assets and capabilities across all channels.
An example of this is our launch last week of the Nordstrom Rack e-commerce site and the associated mobile app.
We've stated for some time our desire to be wherever our customers want us to be.
Our multi-year expansion of Rack stores which included 10 openings in the first quarter is giving us increasing relevance with more customers looking for great fashion at great prices.
Our HauteLook acquisition several years ago which now has over 17 million members has enhanced our e-commerce capabilities.
Now we're combining forces to provide a powerful platform for elevating the customer experience in the online off-price segment.
Nostrumrack.com built on the strength of both HauteLook and the Rack.
It involves the integration of talent combining the e-commerce expertise of HauteLook which developed the platform for the site and the merchant expertise of the Rack.
It includes one of the largest merchandize offerings in the online off-price segment that encourages shopping a limited time flash sale event side-by-side with the persistent selection of off-price product.
It allows merchandize to be shipped faster than most off-price competitors enabled by our new fulfilment center shared by Rack and HauteLook.
Finally it accommodates easy returns through the mail or at any Rack location a capability we added in 2013.
Concurrent with this is the launch of the associated nordstromrack.com app; its functionality which enables a single login shared shopping cart and streamlined checkout process reflects of strategic focus on mobile enhancing the customer experience that we will continue to build on as we go forward.
As you can imagine were excited about nordstromrack.com and its ability to serve customers on their terms.
Leveraging the many assets and capabilities within our company in this case things like people product technology stores and supply chain to provide a superior seamless shopping experience is something you'll see more from us in the future.
Again we are only a week old here and there is a lot of learning in front of us.
We are committed to expanding the merchandise offering as we learn more about what our customers want online and transitioning overtime to a more consistent offering relative to our Rack stores.
We're off to a good start and well keep you informed of our progress.
Now I'd like to discuss the announcement of our earnings release related to our credit card receivables.
As we've commented on in the past our credit program is an extension of our brand and an intrical part of the customer experience.
Because of this its critically important that we are able to manage all key aspects of this part of our business.
In addition we have an outstanding team of Nordstrom employees that manage and execute our credit business extremely well.
That said the credit environment has evolved such that today we believe we can pursue an arrangement that allows us to maintain and enhance our customer focus while gaining greater financial flexibility to the potential sale of our credit receivables.
We anticipate any partnership to have a minimal impact on existing operations and jobs.
In conclusion we feel encouraged by the progress we are making.
We are strong in our convictions as ever about our customer strategy and the investments we're making to support it.
And we look forward to continued progress throughout the year.
With that Ill turn over the call to Mike.
Thanks Blake.
Before commenting on our first quarters performance I'd like to reinforce Blakes comments by emphasizing the importance we place on the subject of relevance and our ability to evolve with our customer.
In todays rapidly changing environment we are uniquely positioned to serve customers to multiple touch points whether its in-store or online full price or off-price.
This is enabled through ongoing investments in all of our channels and more importantly through the synergies across channels.
Through these synergies we are differentiated in our ability to better serve our existing customers and to attract new customers by creating a seamless shopping experience.
The launch of nordstromrack.com which is integrated with HauteLooks online and mobile experience is a great example of this.
We are encouraged with the opportunities ahead to further maximize our customers' experience through the synergies created by your ongoing investments in stores technology marketing and supply chain.
Now lets turn to our financial performance for the first quarter.
Our earnings per diluted share of $0.72 were above our outlook of $0.60 to $0.70 that we provided at the beginning of the year.
We delivered total sales growth of 6.8% over last year with comparable sales increase of 3.9%.
We continue to be pleased with our inventory performance and in the quarter with inventory that is current and on plan.
On a square-footage basis ending inventory growth of 10% over last year outpaced sales growth of roughly 4% primarily due to increased pack and hold inventory to fuel Racks growth planned increases in well performing merchandize categories and the buildup of inventory related to the nordstromrack.com launch.
Gross profit decreased by 124 basis points over last year in part due to increased competitive markdowns.
In keeping with our long-standing practice of not being undersold on like items we took additional markdowns in response to the heightened promotional environment.
More than half of the decrease in gross profit was associated with planned growth related to Nordstrom Racks accelerated expansion and our Nordstrom Rewards program.
We continued to be encouraged with the momentum in our Nordstrom Rewards program with over 275 000 accounts opened this quarter an increase of roughly 25% over last year.
On the expense side we demonstrated consistent execution driving an improvement of 40 basis points in SG&amp;A rate over last year.
This improvement reflected lower variable costs in addition to overhead expense leverage on higher sales volume.
Next I'd like to add some color on our long-term growth strategy.
As we previously shared with you we plan to invest $3.9 billion in capital over the next five years as we focus on serving more customers through store and online growth.
An important element is our technology investments which represent $1.2 billion or 30% of our capital plan.
Approximately 40% of our technology capital relates to infrastructure to support our growth plans and to facilitate enterprise-wide synergies.
This encompasses systems to support merchandizing Canada Rack store growth and marketing.
Another 40% is planned in support of our online growth including expansion of our fulfillment network to increase speed of delivery and furthering our customers' mobile and personalization experience.
The remaining 20% is focused on increasing our relevance in stores with enhanced tools for our salespeople such as our new texting platform and point-of-sales solutions.
Over the last several months we've made meaningful progress in our investments.
Highlights include delivery of the inventory system to support our upcoming entry into Canada.
In addition our new fulfillment center in San Bernardino is now supporting our integrated off-price online offer of nordstromrack.com and HauteLook.
Finally our tools to produce better customer data analytics are providing greater insights into the acquisition and retention of customers their migration between channels and their shopping preferences all of which we are incorporating into our efforts to create a better customer experience.
These investments contribute to us achieving long-term profitable growth.
Our confidence remains high in our customer strategy which we believe will generate top quartile shareholder returns to high single digit sales growth and mid-teens ROIC.
Now I'd like to add to Blakes comments regarding our announcement on our credit card receivables.
Our credit business represents a core component and how we serve customers.
We continue to be pleased with the performance of our credit portfolio as demonstrated through continued improvement in credit metrics including delinquency and write-off rates which are near a five-year low.
Due to a variety of factors we believe the time is right to explore a potential partnership that could enable us to gain greater financial flexibility while retaining our control over the customer experience.
As there's been the case with others who have gone through this process we expect the final outcome to take 12 months to 18 months to complete.
During this time we will refine our plan for the use of proceeds consistent with our capital structure framework and balanced approach to capital allocation.
To assist us we have retained Goldman Sachs and Guggenheim Securities to serve as financial advisors.
We will provide additional communication once this exploration process is concluded.
I'd like to wrap up by providing a few comments on our 2014 outlook.
We reiterate our earnings per diluted share outlook of $3.75 to $3.90 per share which incorporates our first quarter results including the full-year impact of share repurchases.
Our topline expectations are unchanged with total sales growth of 5.5% to 7.5% and a comparable sales increase of 2% to 4%.
Gross profit rate is expected to decrease 30 basis points to 50 basis points over last year compared with prior outlooks decrease of 10 basis points to 30 basis points.
This adjustment reflects current performance and assumptions around the promotional environment in the near term.
As always we look forward to providing updates on our progress throughout this year.
With that Ill turn the call over to Rob.
Thank you Mike.
Before taking the first question we want to ask that each person ask one question and if necessary one follow up in order to give as many of you as possible an opportunity to ask a question.
If you have additional questions please return to the queue.
With that in line well take the first question.
Thank you.
Our first question is from Oliver Chen from Citi Research.
Oliver your line is open.
Please check your mute feature.
Hi this is Prashant Rao in for Oliver Chen.
How are you guys doing? Good.
How are you? Good.
I had a couple of questions first one on the inventory guidance if you could talk about going forward how you are thinking about inventory and sort of the nature of your current inventory and what youre thinking in terms of the next couple of quarters? Sure.
Well in terms of inventory guidance we dont normally guide specifically as it relates to inventory but that being said we continue to monitor the aging of our inventory very well and balance improving our turns with the fact that were funding growth businesses.
So I think you should see similar relationships as we go through the year and certainly as we start to comp some of the growth youll see the inventory line up more closely with sales.
Okay great.
And then if I could I'm curious about the Rack -- the 6.4 comp.
I was wondering how much of that was traffic led? We dont measure this is Blake.
We dont measure traffic per se but weve been really pleased with the conversion and receptance from the customer on the product offering.
And so it is an improvement from the trend over 2013 and were really encouraged by a number of things that have been focused on by the Rack team and how the customer is responding to it.
So were hopeful that will continue throughout this year.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Barbara Wyckoff from CLSA.
Hi everyone.
Good job in a tough environment.
Could you talk about the crossover from -- any crossover from Rack and HauteLook over the past year with the full-line stores? And then also could you quantify the 17 000 customers -- can you give us the last year number? Sure in terms of the crossover -- Jamie do you want to?  Sure are you asking about crossover between customers who shop in HauteLook and Rack and full-line store? Yes.
So we dont I dont think we have numbers that we share on that but I think its safe to say that what we feel that we can create lot of value and particularly relevant customer experiences when we can do things for customers that create those seamless experiences between those channels.
So an example of that is something weve been doing for long time where you can buy something on nordstrom.com you can return it in one of our full-line stores last year we enabled that to be able to return HauteLook items into our Rack stores.
And we know that when we do that customers appreciate because they appreciate the convenience and the speed of making that return easier.
So we got a number of things that we do -- the breakdown those seams between those channels and as we make further progress on that we see more customer migration between them.
Barbara this is Mike and the second part I think you were referring to the 17 million members at HauteLook? Right 17 million.
Yes.
And that number last year was roughly in the 14 million range.
Okay thanks.
You're welcome.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Dorothy Lakner from Topeka Capital Markets.
Thanks good afternoon everyone.
Congratulations on the results and also on the rack.com launch.
Just wondering on the full-line stores it seems like the comp there was a little bit better.
And I know youve made a lot of progress in terms of the womens apparel offering changes to the Savvy assortment and Topshop introductions.
I'm just wondering how youre feeling about that segment of the business obviously accessories has been strong kind of everywhere but wondering how youre feeling about womens apparel at this point?  This is Pete womens apparel -- it's a story weve been talking about here for the last gosh 18 months or so where we've improved to the point where we've been at par outpacing the average growth that were having amongst all divisions in this -- this last quarter we were right pretty much on line with the average.
So its gone pretty well I think that its fair to say that the things that we tried to do to evolve the departments to be more relevant and gain more customers has worked but that journey is not ended and we have to keep going.
I think probably the part of that equation when you look at womens apparel in totality is we've got to figure out a way of improving the juniors part of the business.
Its a big business for us and it serves more than just the teenage customer it serves young women as well.
And I think that weve got to make that better and when we do I think it'll benefit the entire womens results.
And then just any changes any update on what you are doing with Topshop? If you're planning on expanding that further? Right it's been good for us.
We've learned a lot together.
We've had good growth and it's doing exactly what we hoped it would.
It's bringing in new customer it's making the customer we have happy.
It's kind of enabled the entire women's business to grow it's lifted all boats so we've got in 41 stores I believe now and we were just in London recently and talking about how we can continue to expand to be in more stores and I'm not sure what that ultimate number is.
So we'd like to be able to add more in the fall say 20 more stores in the fall.
We haven't nailed all those plans down specifically but the spirit of intense has aligned and we're going to continue to grow that business.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Jennifer Black from Jennifer Black &amp; Associates.
Congrats on a good quarter in a tough environment.
I have two questions one just a follow-up to the question you just answered.
Would you think to shrink the square footage for BP? Because there seems to be a lot of overlap.
And then I just wondered if you thought you would have BP changed for the anniversary sale because you talked about that a little bit on the last call? And then I have one other question.
In terms of shrinking square footage I think the answer is probably no in that regard.
But if you look at what we've done in women's apparel and the way that we've laid out stores and then to renovations in new stores we've created way more flexibility so that we can find the appropriate amount of space to chase the business that's really working for us.
And I think anything that we can do to make that space more flexible more dynamic is probably going to be a good thing for us.
But I think in terms of being able to serve that customer segment we need to make that investment for a space and in inventory I think to do a good job serving that customer segment which is an important segment for us.
Now the second part I don't know if you could repeat that question Jennifer? Well do you think that you'll have the BP merchandise teams in time for anniversary sale? Well we'd like to think we've made all the necessary corrections to have it work super well.
But the good news about that business is it turns pretty fast and we have the ability to react and so we're on it.
We have a team that feels like we would address the issues and we've learnt from some of the shortcomings we've had in the last year.
So I think you should expect that business to improve and it has relatively but we have ways to go still.
So we're cautiously optimistic there.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Kimberly Greenberger from Morgan Stanley.
Hi thank you so much.
It looks like you had a nice sort of resurgence in sales here in the first quarter with the $180 million increase year-over-year.
It doesn't seem to be translating into net income growth I'm wondering if maybe you could just bucket for us the biggest reason for that differential? And then if you look at the year do you think that we could actually start seeing some net income growth as we get into the back half of the year? Thank you so much.
Kimberly this is Mike.
Our performance in the first quarter as it relates to that is very consistent with our plans and what we shared last quarter.
In that -- we are incurring costs to prepare for the launching in Canada.
We add those costs that are not accompanied by any sales right now so that's putting some pressure on the P&amp;L.
We also have had some significant amount of technology investments from an infrastructure standpoint that are playing out in the P&amp;L and we also have a large Rack growth planned this year.
And as we bring those leases online we're incurring the lease expense for that before the store is open.
So all those things are very consistent with what we've been talking about so nothing has changed materially from our plans and the performance that's reflected this quarter.
In terms of the back half for the year some of that should normalize just a slight bit as those stores start to open and you start to see the anniversary of that.
But clearly the commitments we've made to grow our business and to invest in the future is what's impacting the P&amp;L this year.
That's really helpful.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Neely Tamminga from Piper Jaffray.
Good afternoon.
My question is around the new Rack app that you guys just launched with HauteLook.
Just first off I really commend the team for the checkout path.
I would completely agree with your assessment that is very slick very much on par with straight up e-commerce guys out there so well done.
But Mike I'm wondering a little bit here on financially as it relates to how these sales are going to roll into the P&amp;L.
Are we going to see some more restatements as to how you guys are going to be reporting the Direct sales? Will the Rack division sales go in Direct or will it be its own Rack Direct or HauteLook? I mean could you give us some sense as what you're doing? Thanks.
Thanks Neely.
Well you know something that's a great question because clearly how we how the customer looks at it and how the customer experience isn't necessarily always the way it gets reported.
But in this particular case the whole online experience for Rack will be reported under the HauteLook numbers.
All that activity is being supported by the HauteLook technology platform and the controls all exist there.
And so currently that's how we're looking at it.
Great thanks.
Thanks Neely.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Joan Payson from Barclays.
Hi good afternoon and congratulations on the solid quarter.
I have a question about Canada and I guess any updated thoughts you have now that you've started developing maybe what you've learned about the market in terms of how it's differentiated from the U.S.
And then any updated plans around your operating loss expectations? I'll take that this is Erik.
We're up to our eyeballs right now preparing for our Calgary launch in September and it's going real well.
It's a lot of work there is a lot of business process changes to go through.
And as you know our strategy has been to open one store at a time and we're even more encouraged about that than ever.
We'll go in with one store and we have the five others planned out.
But no doubt we'll learn a lot.
The nice thing of going with one store is we're going to be able to scramble around and I think make those adjustments very very quickly to what we learn from the customer.
So your question have we learned more? We think we have but I hesitate in saying too much about it because we really won't know until we open.
We go in with a lot of humility it's not easy to go to another country and we have to win with the customer.
So we're going in with an underdog mentality.
And we've hired a department manager at this point.
We're really encouraged with the quality of those folks but they are on a hard track right now to get up to speed.
The merchandise we're encouraged about we've had great reception from our vendor partners.
But again we're going to go in very humble and see how it works and I think we're positioned very well to respond quickly and be very nimble.
John this is Mike.
The second part of the question was on the operating loss related to Canada this year.
And I think last quarter we talked about roughly $35 million and we're on track we incurred roughly I guess a quarter of that in the first quarter.
So no changes to that.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Edward Yruma from KeyBanc.
Hi good afternoon.
Thanks for taking my questions.
I guess first you guys have managed your credit card business extraordinarily well through the tough parts of the credit cycle.
I guess is there anything strategically that's causing you to rethink keeping those receivables on balance sheet is it a financing environment issue or is it? And how should we think about the longer term return profile of the business ex-credit? Sure.
Well Ed I'll take that this is Mike.
We've been pretty consistent over a long period of time emphasizing how important it is to serve our customers in a brand consistent way with our tender of products.
And we always felt that that was so important that we were willing to carry that asset and basically earn a return that was noticeably lower than the rest of our business because we felt there was great synergy there.
But that being said we've seen a lot of changes in the industry over the last several years and we believe there could be an opportunity for us to monetize those receivables and at the same time continuing to retain control over the customer experience.
So we finally have reached the point where we're going to explore that and I'll underscore the word explore because it's something we don't necessarily have to do.
It's something that we believe if we can successfully execute then it'll be a win-win.
So that's how we're thinking.
In terms of the impact to the return on the business -- if you do the simple math on it it's a multiple hundred basis point impact to return on capital post some execution and deployment of the capital that we would get out of that.
Great.
And a follow-up if I may.
On the promotional environment I know you've been -- you've always had the mantra that you will not be undersold in the full-line stores and clearly competitors are using promotions more aggressively.
Is there anything you could do from a merchandising perspective or a relationship with vendor perspective to alleviate some of this pressure that you see in the marketplace? Thanks.
This is Pete.
Yes the competitive issue has been it's been made more dramatic by the fact that the online business has really made things much more transparent and really better for customers if all the choices are out there.
And so the game is changing a little bit in terms of exactly how we compete but we want to stick with this idea that we want to have integrity and transparency with our customers and to having the best prices for the stuff that we sell.
I think information is always helpful in terms of finding a path forward in terms of when we work with vendors what have you.
So we're talking to each other about the impacts of what all these competitive decisions mean and how we can grow our business together.
But it's hard to say much really beyond that other than they have a stake in this as well and we have to be dynamic in terms of the way we look at it make sure that we're making decisions that are in the best interest of the customer and that's the path we're on.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Paul Swinand from Morningstar Inc.
Good afternoon and thanks for taking all the questions.
Just wanted to ask a little bit more about the inventory.
I think you alluded to that it was mostly pack and hold and that's in the Rack.
Is that primarily pack and hold from your own goods or is that just extra good deals that you got from vendors and besides you couldn't pass it up? Paul this is Mike.
The pack and hold refers to the product that we're purchasing directly from vendors and yes it's usually great opportunistic buys that we have that usually come at the -- towards the end of the season that we can get some significant units at a great value for the following season.
So when you say following season you mean year-over-year? Yes year-over-year season.
Thank you.
Yes.
And then so eventually with that reverser or do you see that as sort of an ongoing strategy that would have just more inventory in general? Yes well we've seen it grow pretty substantially over the last several years for a couple of reasons.
Number one is we've made it a key strategic lever for us to get the best product and best brands.
But the second is with the growth of the Rack.
The Rack is growing at such a pace we not have the impact of that core strategy but we have the impact of a significant growth in the business which as you can see is -- grew 20% last year.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Paul Trussell from Deutsche Bank.
Good afternoon.
Great quarter guys.
Just starting with the credit card just a follow up on that.
Is the best way to think about the portfolio Mike still -- kind of make an assumption that 80% of the receivables is backed by debt.
So in a scenario in which you did receive proceeds and have a transaction you would probably primarily use the proceeds to pay that corresponding debt down? Well I think on a more theoretical basis that's how some may view our balance sheet.
In fact we only have a little over 300 million that securitized against those receivables.
And as I said in my comments if this should happen we will go back and re-evaluate our capital structure.
We've always said we want to be 1.5 to 2.5 adjusted debt-to-EBITDAR.
We'll go back and look at that and see what makes sense for us if in fact we don't have those receivables on the books.
Understood.
And then just on full year guidance the 6.8% sales growth in 1Q was pretty close to the middle of your full year guidance.
And obviously you're opening up a number of stores as the year goes on including three full-line stores one in Canada in 3Q.
I'm just trying to get some color on why the sales view was not adjusted? Higher perhaps.
Is there anything that we need to keep in mind? And on a similar front the gross profit performance obviously in 1Q is well below what you're modeling for the full year.
I'm just wondering why that dynamic will change so dramatically over the next few quarters on the final gross margins? Well starting with the sales -- first to make sure we have clarity the full year total sales guidance was 3.5% to 5.5% I'm sorry 5.5% to 7.5%.
And yes we did reach the high end of that.
One quarter in our mind doesn't give us enough certainty and clarity that that's the trend for the entire year.
So we believe it's prudent at this point in time to stay with our initial sales guidance.
There's not enough material difference between baking that in and what the future could bring to make any adjustments.
So we're stuck with that.
In terms of gross profit clearly the first quarter we felt was pretty significant from a promotional standpoint.
I think there's some that believe there is an element of that that related to a very tough weather pattern that created some excess inventory in the system that was cleared.
We have accounted for some level of promotion going forward but certainly not to the same extent that we experienced in the first quarter.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Lorraine Hutchinson from Bank of America.
Thank you good afternoon.
Just as a follow-up the gross margin guidance maybe a little bit lighter you also changed your SG&amp;A guidance and I was just curious as to what's changing on that line item for the year? Lorraine this is Mike.
Well a big part of that was some of the efforts in the first quarter allowed us some pretty good leverage and we see some of that continuing.
The most significant is we've made some really good progress in some of our fulfilment efforts which is a pretty significant variable cost.
And we see those activities somewhat continuing as the year goes on.
But it was mostly about first quarter performance.
And then just to clarify on the gross margin do you expect the competitive pressures to abate as the year goes on? Well as I just stated we don't believe it's going to be as significant as it was in the first quarter because of the seasonal transition in the weather patterns.
But I think frankly it's as good as guess as any as to whether or not that's going to continue.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Michael Binetti from UBS.
Hey guys congrats on a nice quarter.
I know we've beat you to death on the gross margin question at this point but as you think about it Mike if you do see the competitive environment getting more promotional which we are seeing in some of the more mid-tier retailers.
Would your preference be to go after the share and the traffic at the expense of gross margins or would you try to protect margins? Well I would start with our basic principle and that is we've always said that on any like item we're not going to be undersold.
And that's how we're going to operate.
We've been very consistent our customers expect that from us and that's how we'll move forward.
Now that being said we would hope that our product offering is substantially differentiated from some of those mid-tiers that you stated.
So hopefully that gives us a little bit more strength in pricing.
Okay.
And then I guess at a higher level as you think about moving into the Rack.com business -- what kind of things do you think about as far measuring the incrementality of that business versus the risks that come up when you think about perhaps somebody switching from a higher price point item on your full-price Nordstrom even like more expensive shirt for the same brand I can find a less expensive version on Rack.
How do you think about protecting yourself from that? We've certainly seen the retailers who've had less good luck trying to isolate the channels like that.
Well I'll start by saying we're not interested in isolating the channels.
The reason we've invested the way we have is because we want to have a complete offering online in-store regular price and off-pricing.
We believe that that's going to allow us to engage with more customers and we also believe particularly in the online and off-price segment that it's a great vehicle for us to acquire new customers.
And we find that a lot of those customers do migrate to a regular price offering as time goes on and we also have regular price customers that periodically look to shop at the Rack.
And as long as we can continue to offer that more robust offering we believe we're going to create more lifelong customers.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Paul Lejuez with Wells Fargo.
Hey thanks.
It's Tracy filling in for Paul.
Just had another question on more aggressive promotions.
Was that primarily at the full-line stores or did you find that at the Rack you also needed to be a little more aggressive on pricing? And secondly does Rack.com does that change your view of the ultimate potential number of stores you could have for the Rack business? Thanks.
This is Pete.
In terms of the promotional pricing it was really largely full-line stores.
Full price business where we not just stores but online too.
But the full price part of our business where that was an issue.
This is Blake regarding your question on Rack.com and how it may or may not impact our aspiration for opening the stores.
We think it's a key component of complementing the customer experience for that store growth and that they go hand in hand just like over the last 10 years with the full-line store customer having the corresponding e-commerce experience it's important in off-price online.
Great thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Liz Dunn from Macquarie.
Hi let me add my congratulations on a great quarter.
I guess in looking at your business in the first quarter I guess it would probably be fair to say that weather impacted you on the topline less than the rest of the retail space given your geographic concentration that's a question although I stated it as a comment.
And if that's the case did you not see the sort of improvement that other people are talking about in April and May? Thanks.
Liz this is Mike.
I guess to the extent that the math as a percent of total would suggest that we have less business in the areas most hit the hardest I guess the answer to that would be yes.
I mean those that were more concentrated in the Northeast corridor and certainly others in Midwest would probably be hit harder.
But that said out stores in those regions did experience some very difficult business during that period.
And I'm sorry the second...
(Indiscernible) Our business did get better as the quarter went on.
First month was February was the toughest month of the quarter for us and last month was the best.
Okay great.
And then just one on the credit if I may is the time period to get this deal done really in part influenced by your desire to just really get the right service agreement in place because it seems like a little bit of a longer time period and then what are we to assume that you'll do with the cash? First part of your question the answer is yes.
We are going to be very focused on insuring that we have an agreement that enables us to serve our customers at the highest level.
And the second part in terms of the cash you know at this point in time we would evaluate that consistently with the way we've done every other use of capital and that is we have a pretty balanced approach to our structure as well as our allocation.
And should this happen and we realize that cash we'll be in a position to talk more about that.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Rob Wilson from Tiburon Research.
Thanks for taking my question.
Mike is it fair to say in your gross profit margin guidance that you're expecting a year-over-year improvement by the end of maybe Q3 or Q4? I don't believe so.
I think when you look at our guidance for the year it's down over the last year.
Your guidance says negative 30 to negative 50 but it was now...
So you're saying the math on the back half of the year? Yes.
The math on the back half of the year is -- there is some volatility in there but it's relatively flat.
What you're seeing is just a mix that impacted the back half quarters being better than the first quarter.
If I could ask one follow-up do you have a completely separate infrastructure in Canada? It's Erik.
No we have a President of Canada Karen McKibbin.
We certainly have a dedicated team but for the most part we are leveraging our company assets across the organization to support that store.
Thank you.
And our final question today is from Mark Altschwager from Robert Baird.
Thank you and good afternoon.
Could you talk about your inventory strategy with Rack e-commerce business and how much integration exists between the physical and online offering? And obviously you're a company that's very focused on the customer experience but with off-price inventory availability and breath of sizes can sometimes be a source of customer frustration.
So just wanted to know how if the lines between flash sale and off-price online merge how you're thinking about ensuring that positive customer experience?  Jamie you want to take that one or you want me to take it? This is Blake.
I'll take a stab at it.
I think you nailed it.
It's not exactly obvious how to create a great customer experience on that.
I think one thing that we're excited about is the experience that our HauteLook team has in that space over the last five years of serving those customers working with those brands managing those inventories.
They've learned a lot and they've done some pretty innovative things.
You combine with our Rack team our Rack merchants who've been running that business pretty darn well for a number of years now and have a lot of experience with a lot of the same vendors in how to manage inventories of a lot of units when you don't have a lot of depth and you don't have a lot of consolidation of cleaned sizements or those kinds of things.
So it's I think a lot of people who have tried this have been running lot of those challenges over the years.
Again what we're excited about is as you take those two really talented teams you're putting together.
They've come up with what we think is a pretty compelling suite of offerings and experiences for customers in the off-price world that's really differentiated.
And I know Neely mentioned the app earlier -- we're really proud of what that team has built and we think it's going to resonate with customer so far so good.
And we're going to learn a lot and it's going to evolve over time and we think it's going to be a big business for us.
Mark this is Blake.
To add to Jamie's comments on the selection I made a brief comment to that that we feel compared to what's currently out there with some of our competitors that this is a superior offering.
But we're in early days and a lot of this inventory is from the HauteLook side of the equation and our Rack merchants now are overtime now going to be adding the selection that we have on the Rack side.
So the selection the amount of skills that we have will continue to build.
And so we're really encouraged about what that means over the next couple of quarters.
Thank you for joining us today.
As a reminder a webcast replay of this call along with our slide presentation will be available for one year on the Investor Relations section of nordstrom.com under webcast.
In addition we've provided an overview of our performance and growth strategy at the end of our slide presentation.
Thank you for your interest in Nordstrom.
Bye.
Thank you.
And this does conclude today's conference.
You may disconnect at this time.
Hello and welcome to the Nordstrom Second Quarter Conference Call.
At the request of Nordstrom today's conference call is being recorded.
(Operator Instructions) I will now introduce Rob Campbell Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations for Nordstrom.
You may begin sir.
Hello everyone and thank you for joining us.
Today's earnings call will last 45 minutes and will include about 30 minutes for your questions.
As we get started I'd like to refer you to the slide showing our Safe Harbor Language regarding forward-looking statements.
Participating in today's call are Blake Nordstrom President of Nordstrom; and Mike Koppel Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer who will discuss the company's second quarter performance and outlook for fiscal 2014.
Joining during the Q&amp;A session will be Pete Nordstrom President of Merchandising; Jamie Nordstrom President of Stores; and Erik Nordstrom President of Direct.
Before we begin I want to mention that Blake and Mike will be using slides which can be viewed by going to nordstrom.com in the Investor Relations tab.
With that I'll turn the call over to Blake.
Thank you Rob.
As has been customary over these last couple of quarters we think it's important to start by talking about our strategy.
You'll note on the first slide that it's got the customers squarely in the middle.
And though that may sound or appear simple it really is critical for our business and it provides clarity as we think about allocating capital and leadership talent to the various opportunities to serve the customer in the manner they expect from Nordstrom.
Second quarter is important for our company and is materially different than many other retailers due to the anniversary sale which is a unique event within our industry and one that over the years our team continues to build upon.
Before touching on our anniversary for the second quarter total sales were up 6.2%.
And on a comp store basis we had 3.3% increase.
For the anniversary event we saw an increase of 3.6%.
This was in line with our plans and slightly ahead of our trend of the last 18 months and as well as last year's anniversary sale.
In addition I want to talk about new store openings in the third quarter.
We have three full line stores coming including a second store in Houston one in Jacksonville Florida.
And we're particularly excited about our first store in Canada in Calgary opening on September 19th.
A lot of work has gone into it.
And we recognize how important this is for the company and we're anxious for the opportunity to start serving customers in Canada.
And finally our rack continues to grow at a good clip.
We've opened 11 stores so far year-to-date.
And for this fall we have 16 more stores planned to open.
I would like to talk about the recent announcement of the acquisition of Trunk Club.
Trunk Club is a terrific business and one that we've been monitoring for some time.
This area of the business is an area that a number of customers are interested in and we've been super-impressed with the five years that Trunk Club and their team have been focused on the business on what they've been able to accomplish.
With our strategy that I talked about earlier it's less about acquisition and it's all about the customer and how we can best serve her/him.
So whether that's partnering working on something internally or doing an acquisition to improve our capabilities that's the focus and the filtering lens that we use.
As we look at Trunk Club there was something that we felt was important to some of our customers.
We have a dominant men's business and by layering in Trunk Club it really allows us to service more customers in the manner they'd like to be served.
It's something we felt we could do.
But they had made tremendous progress.
And one of the key elements in our business is speed.
And we felt given it would probably take a year or two for us to take a sizeable portion of capital and some of our leadership team to get this business up and running that we were best served acquiring Trunk Club to get up and running asap.
There's a number of synergies that Mike is going to go through.
I guess I would add in addition to those synergies on both sides that for our executive team that was involved with the due diligence we really loved taken by the culture that Brian Spaly and his team have worked on.
It really resonates with ours.
It's focused on the customer.
It's high touch.
It's a full price business.
And they have a strong pay-for-performance culture there that really resonates with us.
So we're excited about the connection with Trunk Club and look forward to over time sharing with you how that best serves our customer and how that's a good fit for our business.
I'd now like to turn it over to Mike so that he can give you more specifics both on Trunk Club and the quarter.
Thanks Blake.
This quarter demonstrated our continued focus on the execution of our current business while looking forward and building our capabilities for the future.
The customers' view of a great service experience is rapidly evolving and we believe strongly in serving customers on their terms.
The acquisition of Trunk Club represents our most recent example providing an innovative way of serving customers.
The transaction aligns with our strategic priorities of accelerating our speed to market increasing relevance with customers and strengthening our capabilities.
We believe there are synergies between our companies that will generate significant long-term growth by enhancing the customer experience.
We are very excited about the opportunity in partnering with such an exciting and innovative team.
Before providing details of the acquisition we'd first like to provide some additional color on our current performance.
Our second quarter performance was in line with our expectations.
Earnings per diluted share of $0.95 increased 2.2% over the last year.
Our results include planned investments and our entry into Canada this fall.
Sales trends were generally consistent with the first quarter.
We achieved total sales growth of 6.2%.
Comparable sales in our full price business increased 2.7%.
The rack continues to deliver accelerated sales growth of 18% with comparable sales increasing 4%.
Our gross profit rate decreased 7 basis points from last year primarily due to higher occupancy expenses related to rack's growth.
The heightened promotional environment that we experienced in the first quarter moderated over the last several months resulting in comparable gross margin rates versus last year.
On a square footage basis ending inventory growth of 19% over the last year outpaced sales growth of roughly 3%.
This was driven primarily from planned growth in our off-price business with Nordstrom rack and the recent launch of Nordstromrack.com.
The growth of these businesses is creating additional opportunities for us to procure great product.
The increases in inventory also reflect planned investments in our full price business including fueling growth online and funding well performing merchandise categories.
As we exit the quarter our inventory is current and at an appropriate level to support the business.
With respect to expenses our SG&amp;A rate increased by 66 basis points over the last year largely driven by planned fulfillment and technology investments and the upcoming entry into Canada.
In addition last year's results included a reduction in variable expenses associated with company performance.
Now we'd like to provide additional color on the Trunk Club transaction and the opportunities we see.
We have entered into an agreement to acquire the company for $300 million payable in Nordstrom stock a portion of which is retention-based and subject to vesting.
In addition we established a long-term management incentive plan of up to $100 million based on Trunk Club's performance.
Achievement of any portion of this plan will result in significant upside value.
We expect the acquisition to be dilutive to earnings per share over the next several years largely as a result of share issuance performance incentives and amortization of intangibles.
Based on preliminary numbers we estimate the dilutive EPS impact to be 3% to 5% in the current year.
We plan to provide more details after we close the transaction which is expected to occur in the third quarter.
As to our strategic rationale supporting the acquisition there were several considerations in assuring that the business fit was in our core strategy.
First is speed to market.
Although we have some of the elements necessary to develop this offering it would have taken us several years to match the level of execution of Trunk Club.
Their business has been solely dedicated and very successful at serving customers in this differentiated way for the last five years.
We believe that speed matters generating value from our rapid entry into this market along with access to a customer base that is incremental to those we serve today.
Second Trunk Club has successfully built the foundation that can support its independent growth while allowing for additional opportunities in partnership with our business.
We are looking at how we can combine our collective learnings and capabilities in a way that allows us to serve customers more fully across our business.
Third we found the financial profile of Trunk Club to be attractive.
The business delivered positive operating cash flow in 2013 and is on track this year to achieve over $100 million in annual sales and reach operating profitability.
With the projected topline increase of roughly 150% in 2014 Trunk club is expected to sustain outsized growth due expansion of its existing channels of Trunk's showrooms and custom fitting events.
Trunk Club will largely operate independently over the near term which is similar to the approach we've taken with HauteLook.
That said Trunk Club will be able to immediately scale its business by leveraging our operational capabilities which include supply chain greater breadth in inventory and in-store alterations.
Erik Nordstrom will lead these efforts partnering with various business leaders.
Before I talk about the 2014 outlook I'd just like to make a slight correction.
I believe I said that the initial purchase price was $300 million.
It's $350 million.
Thank you.
Now let's turn to our 2014 outlook.
We remain on track and have narrowed our full year earnings per diluted share outlook to a range of $3.80 to $3.90.
This incorporates our second quarter results as well as the full year impact of share repurchases to date but excludes the acquisition of Trunk Club which is expected to reduce earnings per share by 3% to 5%.
Our topline expectations reflect total sales growth of 6.5% to 7.5% and a comparable sales increase of 3% to 4%.
Finally the process regarding the potential sale of our credit card receivables is going as planned.
As we shared with you last quarter we expect the process to take a total 12 to 18 months.
We'll provide an update once this process is complete.
In wrapping up the first half of the year we are encouraged with our progress executing both our current operations and strategic initiatives with the overarching goal of delivering a superior customer experience.
With that I'll turn the call over to Rob.
Thank you Mike.
Before taking the first question we want to ask that each person ask one question and if necessary one follow-up in order to give as many of you as possible an opportunity to ask a question.
If you have additional questions please return to the queue.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from Ed Yruma with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
You have a tremendous amount of insight into the US consumer given your various banners and price points.
I guess the high end has been very resilient.
Are you starting to see some of those upper middle income and middle income consumers beginning to heal? And then two as a follow-up in terms of the Canada launch is there anything we should think about in terms of expense cadence for 3Q and 4Q? In terms of the health of the consumer our trends have been pretty consistent.
If you look at since the beginning of the year we've been in that 3% to 4% range and while there's been some macro news in terms of the health of the consumer I think the way the consumer is behaving certainly in our space continues to be relatively consistent.
In terms of Canada I think we shared previously that Canada would have roughly a $35 million impact to our earnings this year.
Through the first half of the year we've incurred roughly one-third of that and we expect the other two-thirds to be incurred in the back half of the year.
Our next question comes from Paul Swinand with Morningstar Equity Research.
It looks like about $0.15 dilution on the acquisition.
Is that mostly on the share issuance and including the $100 million in sales but even breakeven operating margin? Or how should we think about that? The first thing I'll say is that we haven't finalized all the details.
Hopefully we expect to close this quarter in the third quarter.
And when we get all that we'll certainly disclose those details.
But it really a combination directionally of several tranches.
One is the issuance of stock this year.
Another is the amortization of intangibles after we finish the accounting and another would be the estimate of any performance against the long-term incentive plan.
The amortization obviously would be non-cash but that would be spread out over a few years? Yes.
Our next question comes from Dorothy Lakner with Topeka Capital Markets.
You've obviously now made a nice acquisition to supplement or complement your men's apparel side of the business but you've also made some great strides on the women's apparel side.
I wonder if you could update us on how you think that's doing along with the juniors business which is now under the same leadership.
So just an update on where you are in the women's side of the business.
As you've mentioned we now have leadership that really spans the entire breadth of what we do in women's from juniors all the way through designer.
That wasn't always the case.
And I think what we've learned over time going to appreciate is the dynamics are very similar kind of end-to-end.
And the best way for us to be successful is really the synergy of how it all goes together.
And so that's new and it's not going to represent a huge change but I think over time it will help us leverage our strength better.
More specifically with regards to women's we've had really good growth still with Topshop.
It's really an important part of our ongoing plan to be meaningful to that younger fashion contemporary customer.
We have 52 stores with Topshop.
We will be growing that.
I don't have any specific plans to tell you exactly but we're aligned with our friends at Topshop to continue to grow this business and there's more opportunity for us there.
And the good news about that is that that's not really measured in isolation.
We have Topshop in the store and we have success.
It's really kind of lifting all boats in the women's apparel.
So I would say generally we've had good progress at women's.
We're happy about our plans there and we feel like we'll continue to have growth.
Our next question comes from Lorraine Hutchinson with Bank of America-Merrill Lynch.
I wanted to follow-up on the growth in inventory this quarter and specifically the planned growth in full price.
Is that just new stores or is that making that's in other categories? The full price primarily is the growth in direct.
We continue to see that business growing in the mid to high-20s range.
And so that's the continuing funding of that business.
We do have some new stores that we plan to open but the impact on the overall inventory levels at this point is relatively minor.
We did make a purposeful increase in inventory plans related to specifically the cosmetic division where we feel like we're returning a little too fast and maybe we were out of stock.
And as we've done that it's really helped improve the business.
And in fact cosmetics is the top comp sales division for us year-to-date.
So that's been a purposeful investment in what we're doing.
Our next question comes from Kimberly Greenberger with Morgan Stanley.
I just wanted to follow-up on Lorraine's question on inventory.
I know that you have been building inventory for the last several years for all the various initiatives you have.
Is it your view that we should just continue to expect inventory to grow to outpace sales growth into the future? And does that mean that a slower level of inventory turnover is what you expect going forward? Or do think we'll get some sort of the normalization in Q4 six eight quarters where you would start to see revenue actually outpace your inventory growth? Our overarching goal is always to improve the GMROI on our inventory.
And clearly one of the components of that is turn.
That said as we've expanded our off-price business we've launched Nordstromrack.com and I think as we've done a more integrated approach with our top brands and procuring product we've been able to do a much better job in the marketplace at being the first ones at the table to get the best product.
And the pack-and-hold has been something we continue to invest in.
And clearly what you're seeing there has been some great opportunities for us to get the best off-price product out there that we believe will certainly continue to drive those sales in the off-price space.
We don't expect that over the long run that it's going to continue to outpace the sales.
But clearly we're going through this inflection point as we've adjusted some of our operating techniques and our strategic that we are able to accelerate the growth of the inventory.
Our next question comes from Paul Trussell with Deutsche Bank.
Just wanted to ask about the performance of the Nordstrom Rack as well as HauteLook and Nordstrom.com just get some breakdown amongst those websites' performance in 2Q.
The question is about Nordstromrack.com? Yeah just about each of your website banners the performance on what you saw.
One of the great values of HauteLook acquisitions and the launch and the support of Nordstromrack.com on their platform and that team did a terrific job of making that happen very very quickly.
So very happy with the speed of that.
Our integration of rack and HauteLook to Nordstromrack.com there's a couple that we really benefited from.
One is on the technology and getting it quicker to the merchandise.
As our team is able to go to market the story in the marketplace the value of the vendors these different businesses and the synergy it creates is really resonating.
So our quality of the content is starting to be more and more influenced by our rack merchandising team.
So our merchandising teams of rack and HauteLook are working together.
The content is just starting to come.
Up to now the bigger chunk has been from the HauteLook.
So we're still learning a lot with Nordstromrack.com.
We're pleased with the launch there but we've got lots of opportunity to get better.
The HauteLook business itself has been very consistent from the demand standpoint running about 30% increase in demand.
What's changed for us is the return rate.
Again this goes to integration points of why we like the HauteLook business.
In the last year that we started taking HauteLook returns in our rack stores and over 70% of HauteLook returns are now coming physically to our rack stores customers coming to our rack stores.
It is a better customer experience.
I think it separates HauteLook from other flash sale competitors.
And it's a tremendous traffic driver for our rack stores.
So within HauteLook silo the return rate has gone up quite a bit hurting their sales.
But overall for the company it's a clear win for us.
As far as Nordstrom.com's performance I guess the biggest difference in first quarter and second quarter were the amount of promotional activity.
First quarter the industry was having more promotional activity and we're matching price.
We saw a fairly significant increase in demand and also the corresponding reduction in gross margin.
Second quarter not as much promotional activity so we didn't get the lift in demand but we also didn't get the hit to the gross margin.
As we move into the second half of the year obviously tough to gauge the competitive response going forward.
But just help us understand what your thought is on gross margins and promotional intensity for 3Q specifically.
I mean there was a big gap between your first quarter and second quarter gross margin performance.
Is the thought to expect the second half to be somewhere in between? Our guidance reflects our expectations as to how we feel about our ability to achieve our margin.
We definitely saw the first quarter was impacted by some pretty severe weather patterns coming out of the winter season that caused a lot of promotions in the first quarter.
We saw that moderate in the second quarter.
We clearly are very conscious of what's going on out there.
But I think if you look at what we're guiding for the back half of the year I think that says how we feel about it.
One other thing I'll add to about the direct performance if you look at both the first and second quarter on a two-year basis we're up almost 60% almost equally in both quarters.
So we continue to see that business operating at our expectations which is roughly that mid to high 20s comp.
Our next question comes from Oliver Chen with Citigroup.
Regarding your prior and your current outlook the tweak in the comp store sales taking towards the high-end as well as editing the gross profit on basis points what were the main dynamics that drove those changes? And a follow-up was on the full line comps.
What would you prioritize as the biggest opportunity just to see improvement in that business? In terms of the adjustments it really just reflects the fact that we got two quarters behind us now.
And there's more certainty and clarity into what the year is going to look like.
There's nothing more in those adjustments other than that.
One thing I want to remind you when we talk about the full line business is that we have a customer strategy not a channel strategy.
So we do have a number of things we're working on and opportunities we're pretty encouraged about to improve our service and improve our productivity within our full line stores.
But the line between where the demand occurs and where the sale gets reported is so blurred today and the expectations the customers have around the service that they want are so dynamic that we're really looking at how we serve customers in the future that it's not about what we really need to do this thing in our full line stores to get the comps go in that channel.
We need to look at our entire business and say how can we provide a better customer service and hopefully drive more customers into our stores.
Erik mentioned returns going into our rack stores.
That's a great example of things that we can do that might not make one P&amp;L for one business but different or better in another one but it's a win for the customers.
So we're really focused on those things and again really encouraged by number of opportunities we got in front of us to improve service there.
Our next question comes from Jennifer Black with Jennifer Black &amp; Associates.
Congratulations on solid business trends.
It appeared that you had much more as far as full price merchandise on the floor during anniversary sale and I wondered if that was correct and if customers responded favorably to the merchandise assortment.
And then as a follow-up can you talk about what you think your areas of opportunity are for next year's anniversary sale? I don't know that we actually had more literally in terms of regular priced inventory but we're definitely conscious of how important it is to have new regular priced inventory when there's that many people in the stores.
So I know that there's always efforts that we have to have a good regular priced offering.
And I can tell you the divisions that did the best are the ones that were able to not only have good sale merchandise but have a good flow of new regular priced.
So that's certainly part of our strategy.
I think one thing that we did a particularly good job this year and this has been a theme for us for the last couple I think we've done a good job with our loyal regular Nordstrom customers in making this event as appealing as possible and convenient and easy for them.
And that certainly showed in our results.
I think the opportunity for us going forward is while we continue to do that that we also spread the word and try to raise the word with customers that are maybe more casual Nordstrom customers or acquisition type customers at what a great event this is and why it's special and different.
And there is a lot of opportunity with that specifically.
So that's I think something we're trying to layer on for next year and that should help us grow the event.
Jennifer one thing to add to Pete's comments there is in the second quarter as we've seen this whole year is we're acquiring customers in our rewards program at an accelerating rate.
In the second quarter I think we were up about 18% in terms of new rewards customers.
So that continues to be an opportunity for us as Pete said to continue to engage customers at a higher level and also introduce new customers to our brand.
Our next question comes from Joan Payson with Barclays.
Just a couple questions on the rack stores.
Is there anything more recently that you've been seeing that gives you increased confidence in that 230 store target for the long term? And then also in terms of category performance do the rack stores have the same category successes that the full line stores do or are there any differences there? Regarding the current 230 store goal or objective we've had for 2016 we are close.
At this juncture we could fall short.
What we are finding is there some cyclical nature to it in terms of availability of the stores.
So one year we might have plan to have 25 store openings and we might fall short of that.
And the next year we might come up above that.
But I think from a long term point of view we feel really good about the growth of the rack and the opportunities there but there could be some nuances that we may not be exactly at 230 at that time.
But I think over time we'll hit that number and continue to go forward with that.
In terms of category performance our racks do mirror the full line stores and the customer is desirous of the same passion and trends.
And so there is a correlation if the full line stores have a category that it tends to correspondence well within the racks.
So there is a complementary approach there.
And we said earlier too and I would just reiterate that general merchandise managers are just doing a terrific job working with our vendors and enhancing our partnership and looking at the four areas of our strategy.
And the vendors are more and more thinking of us first and when it comes to close out it's really helping our rack business.
So we are really encouraged with the quality of product that we're able to provide for our customers.
And your next question comes from Bob Drbul with Nomura Securities.
I had a question on the inventory.
I was wondering if you could comment a little more on the pack-away inventory categories that you've seen.
And it seems like just the magnitude that's one of the larger ones that we've seen over the years in terms of the commitment that you've made there.
Well Bob we're really not going to break down by category of what that looks like.
But suffice it to say we continue to believe that it's providing us with great opportunity.
And I think the other thing to keep in mind about that too is I think we got 16 rack stores that we're opening next quarter.
So that's also an element of the growth of that investment.
But it's relatively broad in terms of the opportunities.
There is really kind of three elements or drivers to access to products.
It's from our full line stores that transfers its close out merchandise from our top vendors and its ability to have when there is a void make up some product as well.
Again I've mentioned earlier in the previous question we're really encouraged.
We are getting more more first call and more access to great product as time goes on.
So as we have gotten larger with scale it's really helped in this pack-and-hold ability to be able to go to our top vendors and be able to buy all the product they have in this season and then hold it for a couple of months and then bring it in our stores.
It provides much better flow better sizes and again more trend-right merchandise.
So it's been a real win win.
It does impact in the short run kind of apples and oranges comparison i.e.
what we had in pack-and-hold last year versus this year.
And as Mike said some of that's driven by the new store opening cadence.
And that's a key point of filling those stores at that right part.
We use pack-and-hold.
But at this juncture we're really encouraged about that avenue of product.
Our next question comes from Michael Binetti with UBS.
I'm curious about a couple of things with Trunk Club since it'll probably be a focus here for the next few weeks.
I'm curious about your comment about how you said there was an opportunity to speed to market and maybe a little bit about why you felt the urgency to get into that category right now.
We've been looking at that business model for the last couple of years in particular.
And it's just smack dab in the middle of what we do.
It's about fashion the guy who wants to look good and who appreciates high level of service.
What's complementary to what we do because those are two things that are foundation is the guy who doesn't want to go to the store.
Either he doesn't have time to go to a store or simply doesn't like going to stores.
And they use a multichannel offer to do that.
That is in so many ways close to what we do.
Yet it's complementary.
I think we purchased HauteLook that while we're in the off-price business we concluded that this flash sale model was of significant scale and that certain customers certainly liked it.
And it wasn't why it's for us to try to force them into the one off-price model.
If we had it why it's for us to offer the customer the choice that they want.
That's very similar here.
It's another way of serving customers that's about fashion it's about great service.
Yet it is different from what we do.
So the model got us more excited.
We looked at it.
And it's something that we feel that category is going to grow that we're uniquely positioned to be a leader in it.
But if we didn't do it someone else would and would take a bigger chunk.
It's pretty clear where we can help them through things inventory supply chain intraoperations things like that right off the bat that we can add appeal to their growth.
And then it's also clear that our two companies are better together than separate.
Things like even contemplating expanding that service to women's would be very daunting for either one of us to do it on our own.
Combined we're well positioned to test things like that.
And we just thing there's tremendous upside going forward.
Of the $0.15 I think that's backed us out to about $45 million in cost how much of that is ongoing versus costs that will roll off like amortization? If you could help us break that down and then maybe why the decision to pay in stock for the acquisition.
We'll give more visibility into that as we get to the closure.
But suffice it to say the business currently in 2014 and going forward is at an operating profit.
And we expect that to continue to expand as time moves forward.
In terms of some of the non-cash related items we will see those start to pare off after the first couple of years.
But we'll give you more detail as we get to the closing process.
And then I think the second part was why stock stock was just currency that made sense for both parties.
And it helped to facilitate us to get the deal done.
So clearly it also fits within our overall capital policy in terms of how we manage our capital.
So it's frankly kind of a moot point.
Our next question comes from Barbara Wyckoff with CLSA.
What are you doing to announce your arrival in Canada anything special? Could you bring us up-to-date on performance in denim and women's active? We're opening our first store in Canada on September 19th and our team up there has been very active in the community for a number of months.
Clearly there has been some hiring that's been going on as we build that team.
And Calgary is a great county.
We've been sponsoring things.
We sponsored the big breakfast up there where we feed 50 000 people breakfast on one morning.
And what we're really trying to do is wherever we've opened stores which is really try to learn what's important to the community so that we can be part of the community.
We're only opening one store in Canada this year.
And our entire team at Nordstrom is focused on getting it right.
And so we want to make sure that we're listening to the customers up there and we're doing everything we can to make sure that when we open our doors there in a few weeks that we make a great first impression.
Denim both in women's and men's is solid.
It's pretty solid.
I wouldn't say it's spectacular.
But I think it's fair to describe is pretty good and at least a plan for us.
So it's a healthy part of the business.
In terms of women's active we have had a lot of discussions around here recently about that.
And we've had some really outstanding growth in particular with our Zella brand that's an MPG brand that we do ourselves.
It's been quite good and I think it's reflective of not only how great that product is but the opportunity it represents more broadly in that category.
So it's a hot topic around here.
We're talking about ways that we can continue to add on to that momentum.
So yeah it's a very positive part of our women's business right now.
What percentage of your customers shop full line store and rack both? Roughly 30% Barbara.
Our next question comes from Neely Tamminga with Piper Jaffray.
I was wondering if Erik and Jamie would lay in a little bit with their job switch and any sort of key learnings that they would like to share that might be impacting strategy.
Where exactly did those rack.com sales go? Are they in the direct number that's up 22% or the rack number that's up 18%? The main reason behind Erik's job switch is that we felt we could do a better job as an organization in being customer-centric.
I think we've made a lot of progress over the last probably decade in being really focused on customers and how they want to shop and investing capabilities to serve them on their terms.
But Erik and I over the last year or so really felt that we were kind of hitting a bit of glass ceiling in terms of organizationally how we were able to get after some of the stuff.
And to put it simply in some ways we weren't being very customer-centric.
We were actually being channel-centric.
And our customer doesn't care about channels.
You never hear a customer say the word channel.
And Erik and I felt that by us switching jobs we could support our teams more effective to get after some of these bigger ideas that we think are out there in terms of whether it's how customers are shopping on their phones or all the things that happen in between a website and a store that frankly is where the magic is.
And we've got some big ideas of how we can improve our business in the future.
We think we're pretty well positioned and Erik and I are really excited about how we can better support our team towards those goals.
While I've been a keen observer from outsider it's being there day to day.
It's a very impressive team.
Especially the last three years Jamie's team added a lot of people many from outside the company that have capabilities we didn't have pure e-commerce capabilities that the team is very impressive.
And they're experienced in e-commerce and it's a very well run e-commerce business.
But I would echo Jamie's comments we have to keep doing that and progressing on those e-commerce specific capabilities.
But we feel there is another level to get to with leveraging our capabilities across the channels.
And that's something eight to nine months before we did the switch.
Jamie and I worked more together than we ever had.
And that's just continued after the switch and we think there's some tremendous opportunities for us to serve customers in better ways that I'm not sure anyone else can given the different businesses we're in.
And Trunk Club is an example that we can serve customers and that it fits in between the silos of businesses.
And that's where we think the big opportunities are.
Rack.com sales do they show up on the direct line which was up 22% in the quarter or did they show up in the rack division sales which was up 18% overall.
It's in total HauteLook.
And our final question comes from Liz Dunn with Macquarie.
I just had one point of clarification.
I think you said something like the gross and direct was due to merchandise availability.
I didn't really catch that.
Could you just flush that out for us a little bit? I think what we're implying is that we continue to expand the selection and the product offering that's driving more business.
Does that mean there's been some sort of slowdown in traffic or conversion? Is it just less dropped baskets or less unavailable merchandise? No yeah.
Thank you for joining us today.
As a reminder a webcast replay of this call along with our slide presentation will be available for one year on the Investor Relations section of nordstrom.com under Webcast.
In addition we provided an overview of our performance and growth strategy at the end of our slide presentation.
Thank you for your interest in Nordstrom.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for participating and you may now disconnect.
Hello and welcome to the Nordstrom Third Quarter Conference Call.
At the request of Nordstrom today's conference call is being recorded.
All lines will be on a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions].
And I would now like to introduce Trina Schurman Director of Investor Relations for Nordstrom.
You may begin.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us.
Today's earnings call will last 45 minutes including about 30 minutes for your questions.
Before we begin I want to mention that our speakers will be referring to slides which can be viewed by going to nordstrom.com in the Investor Relations section.
Today's discussion may include forward-looking statement so please to the slide showing our Safe Harbor Language.
Participating in today's call are Blake Nordstrom President; and Mike Koppel Chief Financial Officer who will discuss the company's third quarter performance and outlook for fiscal 2014.
Joining during the Q&amp;A session will be Pete Nordstrom President of Merchandising; Jamie Nordstrom President of Stores; and Erik Nordstrom President of Direct.
With that I'll turn the call over to Blake.
Thank you for joining us for our earnings call.
For the past several quarters we've communicated that we are focused on a customer strategy which we think is critical to our business in delivering a superior customer experience.
This strategy provides clarity as we address allocation of our resources both capital and people to serve our customer in the manner they expect from us.
This focus has positioned us to engage with the customer across multiple channels in full-price off-price stores and online.
Most importantly we know the customer views as simply as Nordstrom.
Customers increasingly value speed convenience and personalization.
We're focused to create synergies across our business through service and experience product customer acquisition and retention and companywide customer capabilities.
We had a number of new store openings this quarter including three full-line stores inclusive of a second store in Houston Texas and our first store in Jacksonville Florida.
We also entered Canada in Calgary on September 19.
We would like to call out the terrific job that our team led by Karen McKibbin President of our Canada Division has done leading up to our opening.
For the past couple of years they have been working behind the scenes to address the unique challenges of crossing the border with supply chain inventory loyalty talent systems and other material aspects of the business.
The warm reception we've received from the customers in Calgary is encouraging.
We're also pleased with the stores performance which has significantly exceeded expectations.
We believe we're going in the right direction and in a good position to open our second store on March 6 2015 in Ottawa.
In total as you know we're committed to six stores in Canada with Vancouver following Ottawa and then three in Toronto.
Also during the quarter the Rack opened 16 stores for a total of 27 for the year.
Next as we discussed in the August call we're excited about the acquisition of Trunk Club which closed in late August.
Trunk Club offers a differentiated way in serving customers on their terms to an experience that is personalized relevant and convenient.
This partnership clearly aligns with our strategic priorities to increase relevance with customers and strengthen our capabilities.
The business is on track with its growth plans which include a fifth showroom that will open on December 1 in Manhattan; it will be in a terrific location on 51st and Madison.
With New York representing Trunk Club's largest market it is a meaningful opportunity to increase engagement with existing customers and serve new customers.
Our combined teams have also been developing plans to leverage our capabilities around product services and supply chain.
Now we'd like to provide some additional color on our current execution.
We generated a top-line increase of 8.9% during the quarter.
Our comparable sales increase of 3.9% was generally consistent with the trends we've experienced over the last year or two.
In terms of our inventory we've been making investments to support store and online growth throughout the year.
That said we ended the quarter with approximately 2% of our inventory that was unplanned which was attributable to the Rack.
Though there are numerous factors that contributed to this the simple fact is we bought more than we should have.
We're still committed to meeting our year-end plans and we're confident we can manage this appropriately.
Mike will be providing additional context on this in his remarks.
Now we'd like to talk to you about our clearance strategy.
As you know we've historically held clearance events notably our half yearly sales.
As we listen to our customers we acknowledge there is an opportunity to improve.
We have begun to make adjustments to our clearance strategy and we expect that overtime these changes will result in a better customer experience a reduction of clearance days and an improvement to our inventory turn.
We will comment on our progress as we move forward.
As we head into the fourth quarter our plans are consistent with what we've been focused on for the year.
We think we're in a good position this holiday season and we're pleased with our team's efforts not only for the fourth quarter but to position the company for 2015 and going forward.
I'd now like to turn it over to Mike.
Thanks Blake.
This quarter's performance reflects the ongoing commitment to our customer strategy.
Both the current operating performance and ongoing strategic investments support our goal of delivering a superior customer experience.
Over the past several years our investments to enhance the customer experience have fueled growth in stores and online.
And now our entry into Canada represents a new channel of growth.
When we made the strategic decision we knew it requires significant effort and learnings to establish the infrastructure and processes to support operating in a new market.
So we are particularly proud of the team's accomplishment and a disciplined approach they've taken along the way.
Now we'd like to provide some additional color on our current performance.
Earnings per diluted share of $0.73 were in line with our expectations reflecting sales trends that have been generally consistent throughout the year.
Our quarterly results included a $0.04 dilutive impact related to the acquisition of Trunk Club.
The multiple elements of our growth strategy contributed to our top-line increases of 8.9% which aligns with our long-term goal of high-single-digit sales growth.
Comparable sales increased 3.9% driven by our full price business which reflected continued momentum in online sales and a slight improvement in full-line stores.
Moving to the Rack total sales grew 15% reflecting 27 store openings during the year.
Comparable sales increased 1.7% down from its year-to-date increase of 4%.
In the online off-price business sales at Nordstromrack.com and HauteLook grew 34%.
This was meaningfully ahead of the 13% growth in the first half of the year reflecting the building momentum in this channel and inventory investments to expand selection.
Now we'd like to provide additional color on our gross profit and inventory performance.
Gross profit was 33 basis points lower than last year which reflected Rack's accelerated store expansion and some impact from price matching in our full price business.
Price integrity is very important to us as we strive to earn and maintain our customer's trust.
This has been a longstanding policy of ours and we will continue to monitor and respond accordingly.
On a square footage basis ending inventory growth of 18% outpaced sales growth of 5%.
Roughly 75% of the inventory growth was planned largely driven by store and online growth.
Remainder of the growth was due to Rack inventory being over planned.
We are very focused on long-term ROIC performance and understand inventory productivity as a significant driver.
We feel confident in our ability to make meaningful progress improving our inventory position by the end of the year with potential impact incorporated in our expectations.
Moving to SG&amp;A we continue to focus on our expense execution.
Our SG&amp;A rate including Trunk Club Canada and our ongoing technology investments was relatively flat to last year.
As we previously shared with you we have estimated a full year EBIT impact of Canada which consists of infrastructure and preopening expenses to be roughly $35 million.
We are on track with two-thirds incurred to-date.
Now we'd like to provide an update of our full year outlook.
Our earnings per diluted share outlook is $3.70 to $3.75 compared with the prior outlook of $3.80 to $3.90.
This now includes the additional impact to Trunk Club which is expected to be diluted by approximately 3% compared to our initial estimate of 3% to 5%.
Comparable sales are expected to increase roughly 3.5% compared with an increase of 3% to 4% from the prior outlook which is generally consistent with our year-to-date trend.
Our SG&amp;A rate outlook is expected to be increase 40 to 45 basis points over last year compared to our prior outlook of 10 to 20 basis points due to the impact of Trunk Club.
Before we wrap up I'll note that the process regarding potential sale of our credit card receivables is going as planned and is expected to be completed around the first half of 2015.
In closing we are on track with executing our customer strategy which we believe will drive long-term profitable growth and deliver top quartile total shareholder return.
With that I'll turn the call over to Trina.
Thank you Mike.
Before we get started we like to request that you ask one question and if necessary one follow-up.
If you have additional questions please return to the queue.
We will now take the first question.
Thank you.
Our first question comes from Matthew Boss from J.P.
Morgan.
Hey.
Good afternoon guys.
So brick and mortar full-line comps were flat best in over a year.
Can you talk about the drivers of some of the improvements and the sustainability of flatter or the potential for positive brick and mortar base going forward? Sure Matthew.
This is Jamie.
I think this has been for continuation of a lot of initiatives that have been underway for some time to improve our full-line business.
As we keep saying we don't -- we don't have a channel strategy we have a customer strategy.
So there's lot of things that we've been doing with technology and with e-commerce to elevate how we serve customers in total.
But that being said there is lot of things that have been happening in our stores around space allocation staffing our stylist program which we've been talking about for some time now has been great.
Doing things like pop and shops creating more reasons for customers to want come to our stores but ultimately flow of new great products is typically what drives our business.
And that's nothing new but when we're good at that when we have a good flow of new stuff that people want to see our business gets better and I think this quarter is a good example of that.
Great.
And just a quick follow-up question on the brick and mortar.
As we think about some of the strategic changes that you've made as it relates to promotions what's the best way to think about the underlying merchandize margins going forward? We really haven't made any changes with regards to promotion.
I think you might be referring to our transition away from the half yearly model with our clearance strategy.
Our -- as you're probably aware our half yearly clearance strategy goes back decades and back to when we were a shoe business.
We felt that that model really kind of handicapped our ability to improve our flow of fresh new regular price goods.
We saw some opportunities to improve that because we know that's what our customers want.
And that's what drives our business.
So we think by evolving how we clear merchandise we can improve our flow of regular priced goods.
And so we've started that transition.
And so far we're encouraged with our progress.
But I want to be clear; it's not about adding more promotions.
In fact what you'll see is over the next year we'll actually have less days with clearance on our floors than we did with the old model.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Dorothy Lakner from Topeka Capital Markets.
Wondered if you could update us on the progress that you've been making in terms of your assortments particularly on the I guess the women's side of the business.
Where are you in terms of the top shops you've put into place? How are things like the brass Plum doing? You brought in new brands like Sarah Jessica Parker shoes.
Just wondering how the overall performance of women's has done relative to expectations.
This is Pete.
We have such a broad offering in women's that goes from juniors all the way through designers.
That at any given time you can point to some things that are working well and some things that are not as well.
I think our story now is really has been fairly consistent and a continuation of where we've been.
We've seen improvement in our juniors business and brass Plum.
It's definitely kind of bottomed out.
I think we've had a couple of tough years there and that has improved.
I think part of that is what we've been able to do with Topshop and how that's bringing more customers into our stores and online some new customers.
That's been very positive.
The Topshop Topman business has been very good for that.
For us we're in 53 doors now we're going to expand that more as much as it's practically possible as soon as it's possible.
So it's been a lot of work on the Topshop parts to make that happen but they've been really good partners and we're very encouraged about where that's going.
I guess what I would add is we continued to do well when we can maximize the power of brands that are important to our customers and we continue to invest in those not only in the way that we merchandise and display them on the floor but just literally our ownership there and we've had success in women's on that angle.
Great.
Thanks.
And good luck.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Paul Trussell from Deutsche Bank.
Good morning.
Just moving to the Rack if you can just give us a little bit of detail on the deceleration in the quarter.
Was it traffic related? Where other competitors in the marketplace aggressive on promotions? What did you see in the store? And then what has been the reception been to nordstromrack.com over these last few months? Paul this is Blake.
We did see a deceleration from the trends we've had almost four years towards the end of the quarter predominantly in October.
We don't have strong data from a customer count point of view.
We do from a transaction point of view but our business was softer and there is I guess a number of factors that contributed to it but it was a blip and we're hoping that the fourth quarter is not a reflection of that because certainly that's a very narrow window and so we're not trying to over overreact to that but we wanted to share that with you.
We didn't see anything different from a competitor promotional point of view.
It just was softer in our stores and it was reflective in our top-line for the month of October.
And then just to follow-up maybe we can just quickly touch based on Trunk Club.
Could you just give us a little bit of color around the overall impact now as we think about modeling that out for 4Q and beyond in terms of revenue and SG&amp;A share count impact? Well Paul this is Mike.
In terms of the impact it's going to have to our EPS for the year we've said it's roughly 3% dilutive.
And we did call out that it's roughly $0.04 in the third quarter so you can do the math and understand the impact in the fourth quarter.
As far as breaking it out by line item we're not providing that kind of specific guidance right now.
That being said we continue to be excited about the momentum in the business.
The business has achieved so far our expectations in terms of a rolling 12-month growth and we're looking forward to see how it performs during the holiday season.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Oliver Chen from Cowen and Company.
Hi guys thanks for the details.
And regarding the inventory and your comments about having a bit more than you wanted at Rack what's the nature of that inventory? Like what kind of products was it and where is your conviction lie in terms of your confidence that you can work through it? Like how might that be done? Thank you.
Oliver this is Blake.
We've done both in the Rack and throughout the Company; our merchandising teams for a number of years have had terrific disciplines on inventory management.
And it's even more important in the Rack where you want to be really fluid and be able to react and respond to goods that are available.
I would just tell you and I tried to in my remarks take accountability and not point to any one thing because there's a number of factors but it really starts and stops with having grounded plans and our teams executing accordingly to them and our merchants particularly our general merchandise managers have done a terrific job of opening the doors in the partnerships we have with our best vendors and it's simply a case of our buying teams in the Rack buying too much for the size of the business.
And so in months or quarters past there might be fallout there might be increased sales that kind of masked that.
And we think the end of the quarter there; there were a number of things that contributed to it.
So that said if you're in a more fashion type business and you get overbought you can almost the methodology or the math shows right to what it does to the margin or markdowns.
We feel pretty good about the quality and content and aging of this merchandise and then part of this is with our pack-and-hold that we've been running a little bit higher for some time compared to previous years.
And these are goods that our top vendors are clearing at the end of season that we're holding for roughly six months and bringing back in the appropriate season and so we think this is really solid merchandise.
Our team feels confident by the end of the quarter we can be back in line and again our numbers are in our plans that we just shared with you.
And so we fully expect to meet our plans but we just felt it was really important to be as transparent as possible with all of you that these are above our plans.
It's unacceptable and we're getting after it.
Thank you.
And just a follow-up.
The outlook seems pretty solid.
What do you think about volatility in the marketplace and what you're seeing in kind of the health of our consumer as we embark in some macros that looked more encouraging but things are pretty promotional? Well Oliver we're asked that each quarter.
And we're only as astute or smart as our last transaction or our figures.
And so I think what we're trying to share with you is that our business has been really consistent for almost two years now.
So that's how we view the fourth quarter.
That's how we're planning the year.
That's how we're thinking about going to 2015.
That this is the hand we're dealt and we need to plan and execute accordingly.
There's been pockets where it gets a little more promotional.
And as Mike said we feel very strongly about one of our core principles about having integrity with our pricing and being competitive.
So we will respond accordingly but we don't foresee anything material changing than what we experienced last year.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Paul Swinand from Morningstar Inc.
Inc.</strong> Good afternoon.
And thanks for taking the questions as always.
Wanted to drill down a little bit more on inventory.
Would you care to give us some guidance on whether you would get back to some of your former inventory days or inventory turns per year? It's been up a little bit the last few years.
Yes.
Paul this is Mike.
That's a great question.
As I said in my comments we fully understand and are very focused on the impact that a productive inventory has on our overall our overall return.
And over the last year or so we've been in a fairly accelerated cycle in terms of funding growth and in various channels.
And so we expect for the foreseeable future to continue funding for that growth so there's going to be a little bit of a lead lag relationship between inventory investment and the sales as we move forward but our long-term goals continue to be to improve that metric and to drive overall returns in the Company.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Is the acquisition; is it faster turning inventory on average? Are you talking about Trunk Club? Inc.</strong> Yes.
Well Trunk Club is a lifeline.
There is a very small amount of inventory.
There is also some custom there.
So -- and even if it was materially different in the metric it's not going to make an impact to our total inventory.
We carry about $2.2 billion of inventory and Trunk Club at this point is relatively small to that.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Great.
Best of luck for the holidays.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Ed Yruma from KeyBanc Capital.
Hi guys.
Thanks very much for taking my question.
I guess first on the price match I know it's been roughly a year since you've been more I guess outward about your "we will not be undersold".
Do you think you're saying the economic or customer return from that investment in price? And I guess now that you're laughing that should we expect the year-over-year impact to be more muted? Ed this is Jamie.
I don't know if it's something that we've done necessarily differently over the last year.
We've always been competitive on price.
Nothing has changed about I think our stand.
So I think what's changed is is that the world has gotten little smaller.
And we used to compete on price with the stores across the street and now its entire world via the Internet.
So the game has changed a little bit and our approach to it has not changed.
That being said I think it's been -- there's a trend around the promotional activity out there in the marketplace has been fairly consistent over the last year.
It tends to rise and fall with how inventories across the marketplace or whether they're healthy or not.
And as inventories rise and some of the competition out there needs to mark stuff down to their business that affects prices.
It's -- and of course we have to be competitive with that.
This -- so far this year it's been a little less than we experienced last year.
We're not quite sure what's going to happen in Q4 but well we're ready for it.
And Jamie this is Blake.
I'll quickly -- just I would add that we can really see it in the e-commerce business.
And so when for any reason we find ourselves behind and not competitive you can see it in the sales.
And so overall some of that for the total company is hard to measure.
But if you're not competitive you're just not in the game in the long run.
Great.
And a follow-up if I may.
In terms of the excess inventory at Rack is it more systemic of the learning curve of the pack-and-hold strategy or is it just because the comps have come in a little bit lighter than you would have expected? Thank you.
Yes there are so many factors.
Both that you just said apply.
We get goods from the full-line sources in term of transfer.
We buy merchandize from our top vendors.
We also have the pack-and-hold as you alluded to.
We now in the last year are taking HauteLook returns which has been a great customer service for our customer; it's been a great driver of foot traffic in the Rack's but its more inventory come in the rack.
So there's just countless inputs that add to this.
There is some system issues in terms of information and knowledge on it.
But the bottom-line is we have it to manage it better.
And we're not going to fully achieve our long-term goals if we have volatility in our inventory management.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Jeff Stein from Northcoast Research.
Good afternoon guys.
Wondering if you could talk a little bit about the Calgary store some of the early learnings and takeaways you have from the business.
And wondering if you've been able to get all of the local brands up in Canada that you desire? Thank you.
Hey Jeff this is Jamie.
We really did our homework on Calgary.
I think we started working on opening a store about three years ago.
We put together a team to really focus on on learning that customer I think that paid off and it's a dynamic town with great customers and we're focused on serving them well.
As Blake mentioned we're significantly ahead of plan there pretty encouraged by the results and the first impression we've made with that customer.
But we're going in business there for a long time.
So we've still got a lot to learn on how we can serve that customer well.
But we've decided to open in Ottawa in March and then later in 2015 in Vancouver.
But it's about those cities and those towns of customers we've got to learn what they want we got to learn whether it's the weight of the fabric in those different climates.
It's not about necessarily about Canada it's about those towns.
So we've got a lot to learn but we're really really encouraged by our results and as we open more stores in Canada I think we're going to continue to find ways of serving those customers better.
Right.
And your HauteLook returns increased in the second quarter I'm wondering if you could just speak to that business and are you still seeing a fairly high return rate and if so any thoughts as to why? Jeff this is Erik.
We have not seen an increase in HauteLook return in the last quarter and I'm sure what you're referring to there.
I think perhaps the comment that we're taking more returns in the Rack.
Okay.
But not overall returns you loved it it's more people are returning in the Rack.
Right it's HauteLook specifically the returns we think it has more tangible example of what you've heard I talk about for a while now.
Our four-box strategy of being in online offline and full-price and off-price businesses through just customer desire customer doing what serve them best and they have chosen to take returns to our Rack stores.
We haven't done lot of marketing on that.
To the point where over 70% of our HauteLook returns are coming to our Rack stores.
It's a way we can serve the customer better and we can serve them better because where we have these multiple businesses that have a synergy that have common merchandise they're on the same platforms.
So that's been very encouraging to us the HauteLook business remains very healthy.
The big news in our online off-price business the last quarter particularly has been with rack.com which our HauteLook team is supporting all of our rack team here in Seattle.
That business is really picking up.
Our selection is more than double since we first launched the site and I think more than just the quantity of merchandise the quality of the merchandise again is being driven by this synergy of working with our vendors in the multiple business we have.
I think that the quality of the merchandise really improved and the customers responding accordingly.
Our next question is from Michael Exstein from Credit Suisse.
Good afternoon everyone.
Just two quick follow-up questions one is what is the impact of Packaway inventories its relatively new way for you to operate and how does that impact then.
And how are you thinking about Trunk Club going forward how do you integrate it into Nordstrom and really lever it going forward? Well Michael in terms of the Packaway as you know over the last roughly 18 or 24 months we've increased our investments there because we found that if we were out there early and in the market for the best product that seasons were transitioning we could be the first at the table and get to that stuff.
And so that's made our entire offer more compelling in the Rack our sell-throughs on Packaway are measurably higher than other products.
So it's a very solid investment.
And we're -- I think the challenges right now as we built so much momentum in the business and momentum in procuring the product that we got to make sure that we're balanced in how we approach it.
And in terms of Trunk Club Pete? Yes with regards for Trunk Club our focus in the short-term is mostly supporting their existing growth strategy.
They've been on a more of an doubling of their business every 12 months and we really like their growth strategy.
We think we can help them and obviously we can help them and we can focus on the short-term supply chain is an obvious one.
I think there is some customer service elements like alterations that we can help them.
There is some products areas that we can help them and have already made some progress with.
So that's our focus right now.
We do think their business model has additional growth aspects that we will want to explore.
At this time most of our focus has been really trying to support very good standards.
Thank you.
Our next is from Lorraine Hutchinson from Bank of America.
Thank you good afternoon.
Just continuing on that topic I was wondering if there are any lessons learned from the HauteLook acquisition that you could apply to Trunk Club in the coming years.
Sure it's Erik.
The answer is yes very much so.
I think similarly with HauteLook HauteLook had a very strong growth strategy and we didn't want to get distracted too much at the beginning on that.
I think the lesson is well that was the right thing to do we could have been more thoughtful in a multiyear plan of where things are going because there is big value as we start to integrate some elements of business elements like the merchandising between HauteLook and Rack has been more integrated over the last year in particular.
So that's we're at now where Trunk Club is.
Well we're not looking to have a lot of formal integration in the next quarter with it.
We are playing out a three-year plan of where we think that the business going and having the right pace and identifying the right areas to integrate is something that we have learned from our HauteLook experience.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Kimberly Greenberger from Morgan Stanley.
Great thanks so much.
I wanted to ask Mike about the Trunk Club acquisition.
Is the full impact to EPS being felt here in Q3 and Q4? Or will there be some lingering impact in 2015 that you would like us to keep in mind? And then secondarily on the gross margins year-to-date there's a little bit of pressure in the gross margin.
It seems to be coming from two areas -- the accelerated growth in Rack and also as you mentioned in today's press release the increase in competitive markdowns.
Are those factors that you would expect to remain as we look out into 2015? Sure Kimberly.
Starting with Trunk Club as we stated the annual 2014 impact is roughly 3% dilutive and we've recognized roughly a third of that in the third quarter the balance will be in the fourth quarter.
In terms of 2015 we'll certainly provide that clarity in terms of as far as 2015 when we give our guidance in February.
But I will refer you when we publish the 10-Q after this quarter there will be very detailed disclosure on the purchase accounting and the resulting impact and you should get that details in that as well going forward.
In term of the gross margin as far as the Rack I think we've been pretty consistent for a numbers of years as we've accelerated growth that we've set the geography of the Rack P&amp;L is different than the majority of the business and that we tend to have lower merchandise margins but we also tend to have lower SG&amp;A cost.
And so at that business becomes a larger percentage of total it's just by very nature averaging down the gross margin.
So yes we should continue to see that at least over the next couple of years as we continue to open a lot of stores there.
And then in terms of the competitive markdown it was relatively small this quarter.
We called it out because it was an element and it's a big subject that's being talked about.
Whether or not that's going to continue at what level I don't think we have an exact answer for that.
But we will certainly continue to monitor that and respond accordingly to assure our customers have that same relationship with us over time.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Jennifer Black from Jennifer Black &amp; Associates.
Good afternoon and thanks for taking my question and congratulations.
Thank you.
I wondered I have two different questions.
My first question in regards to HauteLook I wondered if you could talk about your marketing campaign strategies what your learnings are from your TV advertising.
That's my first question.
Hi Jennifer this is Erik.
Hi Erik.
HauteLook has done some TV and has been effective with it.
I guess learnings from it is that it can be very targeted if it's very targeted it's very effective.
So specific cable programs that have aligned with their customer base which is little younger as you know than our overall customer and it's been effective so far.
So that is something you're going to continue.
I think so.
Okay.
I wondered you haven't talked about Active as a category I think a couple of quarters ago I asked about men's and you were talking about that you were in the development process of doing something in private label in men's.
So I wondered if you could just talk about Active I know it's a growth category in women's where you are and where you are with men's.
Thank you.
Hi Jennifer this is Peter.
Active has been a strong category.
But I think where it really plays itself out that's it's not a siloed thing it's very specific to just one brand or one kind of functional activity it's really been much more incorporated into kind of a -- almost an extension of Sportswear.
So you wouldn't necessarily just see the impact of Active in just the Active department it actually kind of plays out across multiple fronts.
But there is still a big opportunity for us to be more meaningful with the most important brands.
And so we have had good expansion there.
And as you've mentioned with our label program with Zella specifically in women's Active it's been really good.
Really really good.
And we're figuring out how to be able to extend that into men's and we're early days on that but I think we're encouraged by what we think is powerful there.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Joan Payson with Barclays.
Hi.
Good Afternoon.
So you mentioned the Rack.com business a little bit earlier in terms of how the product dynamics have changed over time.
But could you may be discuss the difference between the full-line online business and Rack.com in terms of consumer behavior? May be how it differs in terms of transaction size traffic conversion and some of those metrics.
Joan this is Erik.
We're not sharing those specifics I don't have them right them in front of me but when I say the rack.com we're still very much on a steep learning curve on that.
It is -- it's a young just like an industry the online off-price and as you know we've launched rack.com our persisting offer earlier this year.
So if there are some differences we're learning between the flash sale business in HauteLook and persistent business in rack.com.
There is -- and I think our improved results for the last couple of months reflects some adjustments along the way there.
I will say what is reaffirming is the synergies from those businesses with the rest of our business and specifically on the vendor side the story to vendors of how we can acknowledge our customers better by showing their product in these different channels.
But how we can help their business? We have more and more examples of that and there is an absolute synergy when we feature brands on HauteLook with a flash event and as well it's featuring big brands on rack.com.
The only synergy amongst those business we see lift in our other businesses to those brands as well.
So that story is resonating more and more with the marketplace and we think there is even more game to be had there.
Great.
And is there any target in mind in terms of how big that business could ultimately be? Nothing that we -- Nothing that we have shared.
But clearly we see as a big opportunity.
Our next question comes from Paul Lejuez from Wells Fargo.
Hey thanks guys.
I'm just wondering on the Rack business if you saw a pretty consistent weakness throughout the quarter if there was a pretty significant slowdown either in September and/or October? And from an inventory perspective just wondering if there are any particular categories where you're a little bit heavy at the Rack position? Thanks.
Paul this is Blake.
I will try to articulate with the end of the quarter so predominantly October so that's when we saw the sales soften materially from the trend.
In terms of inventory it's pretty balanced by division.
So we don't have an example where one merchandizing area is much more than the other.
They all are in a position where they are little bit over and so they have all got to a job to do here.
Blake can you quantify what Rack was running prior to October? We don't break it out in the middle of the quarter.
But for the trend prior to that Q2 I think we were up 4% from a comp store basis and for the quarter we are 1.7% so just a little over 200 basis point change.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Michael Binetti from UBS.
Hey guys congrats on a great quarter.
Thanks Michael.
At the risk of beating it to death on the Rack you sound like you're pretty comfortable that it was a fairly short-term blip.
Do you expect that business as you think about the math you put behind the comp guidance you gave us for fourth quarter do you expect that business to reaccelerate in the fourth quarter -- just to help us put bookends on your call out on that business here? Well Michael this is Blake.
We are not expecting it to accelerate to cure our eUphills.
I mean we're not hoping and praying that business will get better and then this inventory will go away magically.
I mean there's some heavy lifting to do but we're pretty comfortable that we -- it is a blip and it's something that we can get after and do this again in this quarter right.
I guess I would tell that we will talk about it next quarter and if it's still a problem my brothers might kick me out of this part of it.
But we all own it and we're going to make it happen.
Okay.
Thanks.
Is it -- and then Mike I know you don't want to get in to guiding on Trunk Club for next year.
But my concern is that you have a lot of analysts fairly disorganized with the impact in their fiscal 2015 earnings here.
Can you just help us think directionally? Because I think last time we talked to you that business was growing over 100%.
And that operating margins were about to go from slightly negative to positive and certainly that top-line trajectory should improve may be.
Just to avoid straightlining out the wrong kind profitability into next year please.
Well Michael most of the impact on that Trunk Club is going to have next year will be on the impact of how we're treating the -- putting up the assets related to the acquisition and therefore amortization.
So I think we said last time that it would be roughly a 3% to 5% impact going forward.
And I think directionally that's in the ballpark like I said as we disclose the details of the purchase accounting you will get more visibility into that.
And we do have time for one final question.
Our final question today is from Bob Drbul from Nomura Securities.
Hi.
Good evening.
Just a question on -- can you just talk about the trends in like the Boot category and the Outerwear categories as you think about it for Q3 and into Q4? Yes this is Pete.
I mean it's so much that's just heavily reliant on weather.
And where you've seen the weather change and evolve we've had risk sales in those typically cold weather classifications.
So we're prepared for it the weather is going to come if it's not there already everywhere.
And so I think we feel good about the content of our inventory and the balance of it and all that.
So I would think generally it's been fine it's been pretty much near plan and that again plays itself out over time.
If we look at our day-to-day or even a week-to-week basis a lot of this has to do with the weather.
But I'm sure by the end of the quarter that will tend will balance itself out and we'll be on plan there.
Again thank you for today's call.
A webcast replay along with a slide presentation will be available for one year on our website.
Additionally you will find an overview of our performance and growth strategy at the end of the slide presentation.
Thank you for your interest in Nordstrom.
Thank you.
And this does conclude today's conference.
You may disconnect at this time.
Hello and welcome to the Nordstrom Fourth Quarter Conference Call.
At the request of Nordstrom today's conference call is being recorded.
All lines will be placed on a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session.
And I would now like to introduce Trina Schurman Director of Investor Relations for Nordstrom.
You may begin.
Investor Relations Nordstrom Inc.</strong> Good afternoon and thank you for joining us.
Today's earnings call will last 45 minutes and we'll include 30 minutes for your questions.
Before we begin I want to mention that our speakers will be referring to slides which can be viewed by going to nordstrom.com in the Investor Relations section.
Today's discussion may include forward-looking statements so please refer to the slide showing our Safe Harbor language.
Participating in today's call are Blake Nordstrom President; and Mike Koppel Chief Financial Officer who will discuss the company's fourth quarter and 2014 performance in addition to outlook for fiscal 2015.
Joining during the Q&amp;A session will be Pete Nordstrom President of Merchandising; and Erik Nordstrom President of Direct.
With that I'll turn the call over to Blake.
Thank you and good afternoon everyone.
As we reflect on the year we consider 2014 to be a watershed moment in our company history with the successful entry into Canada the expansion of the Rack business through store growth and the launch of nordstromrack.com the acquisition of Trunk Club and the decision to explore the potential sale of our credit receivables.
These milestones are the outcome of our strategy which is squarely focused on serving customers on their terms and delivering the Nordstrom experience that they expect from us.
Several years ago we began our path to accelerate growth in multiple channels as we evolve with the changing needs of our customers.
In 2014 we delivered tangible results in executing our strategy over the last several years.
Today we made Fortune's list of the World's Most Admired Companies ranking number 14 overall and leading in our category.
We continued to see the ongoing evolution of retail with the accelerated growth in e-commerce the continuing importance of stores and the increasing customer interaction between them.
Customers increasingly expect a personalized experience that merges the richness of stores with the convenience of online.
We're uniquely positioned to serve customers through our focus on service product and capabilities.
We also believe we are competitively advantaged by serving customers better through our multiple touch points in full-price off-price stores and online.
As a result we have more customers shopping with us and more customers shopping two or more channels.
This is meaningful as customers who shop multiple channels spend more and demonstrate greater loyalty.
In 2014 we reached an important milestone with the Rack representing our biggest source of new customers attracting nearly four million.
Additionally about 1/3 of our Rack customers also shop in our full-price business.
A year ago we enabled customers to return purchases from HauteLook and nordstromrack.com to any of Rack stores.
This singular capability drove nearly one million incremental trips to our Rack stores.
In 2014 we expanded our capabilities to ensure we're relevant today and in the future.
Our first store in Calgary far exceeded our expectations reflecting a multi-year effort from our team to address the unique challenges of crossing a border.
In the U.S.
we increased our presence with two full-line stores in Jacksonville Florida and Houston Texas.
They feature our award winning design concepts that incorporate flexibility and light.
In the Rack we reached a record number of 27 store openings which contributed to Rack's total sales growth of 17%.
We've expanded our capabilities with the acquisition of HauteLook in 2011 which has grown nearly 150% in three years.
HauteLook launched nordstromrack.com in the spring adding to its strong growth trajectory.
We more than doubled selection since the launch with accelerated sales growth for the combined business in the second half of the year.
Finally we strengthened our multi-channel capabilities when we acquired Trunk Club a high growth business that offers a new approach to personalized service.
In 2014 we also added capabilities to enhance the customer experience with an emphasis on convenience.
This includes an upgraded point-of-sale system in addition to ongoing enhancements to mobile the online checkout process and texting tools for our salespeople.
We consider our product offering to be a key differentiator in providing customers with the top brands they want.
This is enabled through our vendor partnerships and our own product group where we can provide vendors new channels of distribution that are beneficial for our vendors and the overall customer experience.
In our full-price business we tripled our selection on nordstrom.com since 2011.
In the Rack we offer customers great brands at great prices with 48 of the top 50 full-line brands.
In addition when brands participate in dual-flash events on nordstromrack.com and HauteLook we've seen a lift in brand sales across all four channels.
Most recently we announced our partnership with Madewell starting with an offering in 15 stores and online.
Similar to our partnerships with Topshop and Charlotte Tilbury this is another way to enhance our product offering and create excitement for both new and existing customers.
As we look ahead to 2015 we have a number of growth initiatives planned in support of our efforts to improve the customer experience including our ongoing expansion in Canada with a store opening in Ottawa in the spring and Vancouver in the fall.
In the U.S.
we plan to expand our retail presence with three new full-line stores in Puerto Rico Minneapolis and Milwaukee.
We also plan to open 27 Rack stores this year and roughly 25 stores in 2016.
Since we announced our growth plans a couple of years ago we now see a clear path to reach 300 Rack stores by 2020.
Our supply chain capabilities are another key element in enhancing the customer experience through faster delivery.
This fall we are planning to open a third fulfillment center located in Pennsylvania.
Having fulfillment centers closer to the customer will enable us to offer two-day shipping for free to more customers.
We will continue to fuel our fastest-growing businesses through deeper integration and capabilities.
Trunk Club doubled its sales in 2014 and has planned to double its sales again this year.
From a merchandise perspective we've enjoyed our partnership with Topshop over the last two years which has attracted new customers to Nordstrom.
Based on the great reception we've heard from customers we expect to expand the offer from roughly 50 doors to over 80 doors this year.
In addition a new partnership with Madewell is another way for us to provide sought-after brands that appeal to new and existing customers.
And finally we view our Nordstrom Rewards loyalty program as an important way for us to deepen our engagement with customers and attract new customers.
Rewards members represent 40% of our sales volume.
We welcomed over 1 million new members in 2014 a 15% increase from the previous year.
We would like to give customers more choices with our loyalty program and our goal is to provide an integrated multi-tender program.
Last year we piloted an extension of our offering in Texas and in our first store in Canada.
Based on the strong customer response we look forward to rolling out the expanded program to all stores and online in the second half of the year.
In closing we are confident in our ability to execute our customer strategy as we evolve with our customers through our focus on service product and capabilities.
With that I'll turn it over to Mike.
Thanks Blake.
As we wrap up another year we are encouraged with the progress we've made in executing our customer strategy.
Our efforts to provide a best-in-class customer experience are centered on service product and capabilities.
To reinforce Blake's comments our strategy is driven by the changing expectations of our customers.
As our business evolves with the customer the way we create value is evolving too.
Over the last several years we have accelerated our investments to fuel growth across our businesses in full-price off-price stores and online.
About a decade ago we started on a path of developing our multi-channel capabilities by integrating our buying teams and inventory platform.
In 2011 we accelerated online growth starting with enhanced capabilities in e-commerce through the addition of talent our acquisition of HauteLook and advancements in technology.
In 2012 we announced our planned investments in new growth opportunities including our entry into Canada our Manhattan flagship store and the accelerated expansion of the Rack.
Not only do these growth initiatives support our customer strategy we expect these investments to drive top line growth and deliver returns accretive to our business.
Since then in addition to executing our growth plans we have increased our focus on our enterprise capabilities to enable a more seamless customer experience.
This is reflected in the significant milestones achieved in 2014 including the launch of nordstromrack.com our successful entry into Canada and the extension of our service approach through the acquisition of Trunk Club.
As we look ahead we plan to further leverage our strategic capabilities through technology supply chain merchandising and marketing.
Now let's turn to our current financial results.
We achieved our expectations for 2014 reflecting consistent strength in our sales trends and our investments to fuel growth.
We added nearly $1 billion to our top line with record sales of over $13 billion.
Our sales growth of 7.8% and comparable sales increase of 4% were ahead of our expectations.
Our ongoing investments contributed to top line growth of roughly 25% from three years ago.
Not only did our overall business generate growth we've aggressively invested in Rack stores and e-commerce which collectively make up over 40% of our sales today up from 30% three years ago.
Return on invested capital was 12.6% reflecting a 50 basis point reduction related to the Trunk Club acquisition and the accelerated pace of capital investments that have roughly doubled since 2011.
For the sixth consecutive year we generated operating cash flow in excess of $1 billion.
Through our balanced capital allocation approach this past year we re-invested roughly $750 million back in the business and returned $860 million directly to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
In addition we announced last week our quarterly dividend which increased 12% over last year.
Earnings per diluted share of $3.72 were consistent with our prior outlook of $3.70 to $3.75.
Our results also included a $0.13 reduction from the Trunk Club acquisition which was incorporated in our prior outlook.
Now I'd like to comment further on our fourth quarter performance.
Our earnings per diluted share of $1.32 were a result of continued sales strength and operating execution.
We achieved total sales growth of 9% and a comparable sales increase of 4.7% reflecting a strong holiday performance.
In our full-price business trends in full-line stores showed sequential improvement over the year with nordstrom.com demonstrating continued momentum.
In our off-price business the Rack rebounded from the softness experienced late in the third quarter and our combined channel of nordstromrack.com and HauteLook delivered the highest growth.
Moving to inventory and gross profit we corrected our excess inventory at the Rack.
We exited the year with inventory aligned to an appropriate level and gross profit performance consistent with our expectations.
We are on track to achieve our goals of top quartile shareholder return driven by a high single digit sales growth and mid-teens ROIC.
We believe this will lead us to be a $20 billion-plus business by 2020 while creating significant shareholder value.
As we've shared with you previously we expect operating margins to reflect the near-term impact of our customer strategy.
This includes investments in stores and online growth the expansion into Canada and foundational capabilities.
As a result we anticipate that these investments will contribute to double digit increases in depreciation and rent.
EBITDAR which excludes these components provides an indication of our core operating performance.
We continue to focus on profitable growth in our core business which is reflected by EBITDAR growth in line with sales growth.
Additionally we've made meaningful progress in increasing our operating efficiencies particularly in our full-line business and continue to evaluate our operating model throughout the company.
Moving to our capital plan we expect to invest $4.3 billion or 5% of sales over the next five years.
Technology is 35% of the plan reflecting an increased shift towards foundational investments.
This includes a merchandising solution that enables our growth and a seamless integration across our multiple channels.
It also includes the expansion of our fulfillment network.
This not only supports a $2.5 billion online business today that is anticipated to grow by over $1 billion in the next several years but also enables an integrated customer experience across stores and online.
New markets representing Canada and Manhattan make up 25% and new stores are 18%.
The balance of 22% relates to reinvestment in stores significantly down from 40% over the last five years due to our remodel prioritization towards high profile stores and improved efficiencies.
Now I'd like to provide additional color on our 2015 capital plan of approximately $1.2 billion.
Relative to our five-year capital plan we expect that this year will represent our peak level of investment at roughly 8% of sales.
The step-up in 2015 compared to $750 million in 2014 is primarily driven by new stores including flagship stores in Vancouver Toronto and Manhattan.
In addition the plan incorporates three flagship store remodels in Seattle Chicago and San Francisco and a new East Coast fulfillment center.
As the pace of investments begins to moderate beyond 2015 we expect to see an improvement in earnings growth.
Finally I'd like to turn to our 2015 financial outlook.
Our plan for earnings per diluted share of $3.65 to $3.80 incorporates total sales growth of 7% to 9%.
We are planning a comparable store increase of 2% to 4% based on current trends.
Our sales outlook assumes in full-price flat comparable sales at full-line stores and roughly a 20% total sales increase from our online business of nordstrom.com and Trunk Club with mid-teens growth at nordstrom.com.
In off-price Rack total sales growth in the low double digits with a low single digit comparable sales increase and roughly a 25% increase from our combined channel of nordstromrack.com and HauteLook.
Other considerations incorporated in our outlook impacting gross profit and SG&amp;A include the following.
The rollout into Canada estimated as an EBIT loss of $60 million compared to $32 million in 2014.
This increase includes infrastructure and preopening costs of new stores.
As we shared with you previously we believe this market ultimately represents a $1 billion-plus sales opportunity.
We expect this level of loss will begin to decline in 2017 and will become accretive as we reach scale.
In addition we anticipate $30 million in expenses associated with growth enablers comprised of the additional fulfillment center and our expanded loyalty program planned in the second half of 2015.
There is also an EBIT loss of roughly $30 million related to Trunk Club compared with a loss of $25 million in 2014.
The dilutive impact is expected to moderate in 2016 resulting from increased operating profitability.
These growth initiatives contribute to our 20% planned increase in depreciation and rent expense in 2015.
EBITDAR when excluding the impact of Canada and Trunk Club is anticipated to grow roughly with sales.
Please also refer to the earnings release for additional assumptions and timing considerations contemplated in our outlook.
Before we close we'd like to comment that the process in regards to our potential sale of our credit receivables is expected to wrap up in the first half of 2015.
We look forward to our opportunities ahead as we continue on our path to provide a best-in-class customer experience and deliver top quartile shareholder returns.
With that I'll turn the call over to Trina.
Investor Relations Nordstrom Inc.</strong> Thank you Mike.
Before we get started with Q&amp;A we'd like to ask that you limit to one question.
If you have additional questions please return to the queue.
Yvonne we'll now take our first question.
Thank you.
And our first question today is from Oliver Chen from Cowen and Capital (sic) [Cowen and Company] (19:00).
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks a lot.
Congrats to a solid finish and all the innovative initiatives ahead.
We had a question related to the activity around the port slowdown and the earlier Easter.
Do you feel like that's within your plans in terms of what you're seeing? Or how does that impact you in terms of your vendors? And just a quick follow-up; what's driving the main rationale behind your gross margin guidance? Do you feel like Rack is in a good place with respect to inventory? Thank you.
Oliver this is Blake.
I'll take the first part regarding the supply chain.
Through the fourth quarter we had some minor impacts but we felt it was immaterial.
It predominantly though can impact flow and as we have said for some time our ability to have freshness and flow is important with our customers.
So we watch it closely and of late it's been more in the news.
Pete was just in market and I know a number of the vendors are talking about it but we have a pretty balanced approach and we work closely with our vendor partners.
And to date we've been able to manage it fairly well.
But our team's watching it closely.
I'll turn the gross margin part over to Mike.
Yes Oliver this is Mike.
Our assumptions in gross margin was primarily driving that slight decrease from 2014 is occupancy costs and it's the occupancy costs related to the continued growth of the Rack as well as the new stores we're opening particularly the new ones in Canada.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks a lot.
Best regards.
Sure.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our new question is from Paul Lejuez from Wells Fargo.
Hey guys.
Thanks.
Just wondering what you see Trunk Club ultimately growing to on the top line? And how do you think about the profitability of that business in a more mature state? Thanks.
President-Stores &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> This is Erik.
As mentioned Trunk Club was on a real high growth rate more than doubled last year and it is planned to double again this year.
We haven't publicly stated but we think ultimately it can be but we think it's a big business.
I think it's safe to say that.
Right now our focus is mainly around supporting their growth plan and there's areas like supply chain alterations some supply right around vendors that we can help them with.
We had just last week here in Seattle their Custom business which  you may know they have three parts to their business they have the Trunk business that's basically online personal styling they have five showrooms and the third part is their Custom business that they've taken on road before.
We actually have that road show in our Downtown Seattle store last week and they're just at the very beginning of starting to find some synergies there.
So that business without being specific I'll tell you we think it could be very big.
The other part is a little less formal (22:11) is what they can do for our stores.
Like that customer experience we're testing some things there but we do believe there's ways they can help us.
As you know our personal styling program our stores is about 1 500 stylists that have been very important part of our growth.
They do some different things with their styling.
We think we can learn on them.
Paul this is Mike.
I would also add you may recall when we originally bought the business we indicated one of the things that we were impressed with was for a startup how quickly they had moved to breakeven operating profitability and we're learning a lot in terms of a small business that can scale relatively quickly and that also can apply some of those ways of doing business in a highly personalized way to be very profitable.
So we're excited about what we can learn there as well.
Thanks guys.
Good luck.
Sure.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Matthew Boss from JPMorgan.
Hey.
Good afternoon guys.
So on capital priorities you outlined that this year the $1.2 billion will be the multi-year peak and then you talked about an improved earnings growth rate following 2015.
Could you just elaborate a little bit on the drivers of that? Sure Matthew this is Mike.
Yes well 2015 there's a lot going on as we articulated we've got some significant investments in our store openings in Canada which include some pretty large stores in Vancouver and Toronto we have the continued ongoing investment in Manhattan which right now is purely a capital investment but is a fair amount of capital.
And then in addition we are investing in our infrastructure to support all this growth  this growth is a wonderful thing but if you don't have the tools and systems to support it it's not going to work very well.
And so what you're seeing here is a kind of a coming together of a lot of activity in this year.
Post 2015 as we start to see those capital outlays somewhat moderate and become more consistent we should see the operating model start to catch up a little bit more for those investments and we should start to see earnings growth to be a little bit better than it's been in the last couple of years.
Great.
Best of luck.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Dorothy Lakner from Topeka Capital Market (sic) [Topeka Capital Markets] (24:38).
Thanks and good afternoon everyone.
Just wondered if you could provide a little bit more color on what you're seeing in the loyalty business.
Clearly you've continued to see impressive growth there helping to drive sales.
And I was just curious the comment you made about more customers shopping in multiple channels.
Clearly that's a great driver too.
So in terms of the number of customers you added what's the total number of customers you've got in the various loyalty programs at this point? And what percentage of that customer base are actually shopping in multiple channels? And then just a little bit of color on the expanded program that you've piloted if you could.
Sure Dorothy this is Mike.
We've for the last roughly five years seen some really strong growth in our Nordstrom rewards program and that has been driven by program that has been entirely connected to one of our tenders whether it's our debit card whether it's our private label credit card or our co-branded Visa card.
And one of the things that we learned with our pilot this last year is we have a lot of customers out there and a lot of potential future customers that would love to engage with us but don't necessarily want to open up another tender.
And so the addition to our overall loyalty offering is going to include a tender-neutral offering which we're not going to disclose specifics yet but we will have a way of connecting with those customers other than through a credit card or a debit card.
And the test we had both in Canada and in Texas really had some great results and reinforced to us that this is another way that we can connect and build lifetime loyalty with our customers.
Currently today we have about 4.3 million active members in the rewards program.
Last year we added about 1 million.
Clearly we add and (26:47) as the years go on so we're constantly looking to engage with new customers.
And just on the number of those shopping in more than one channel? I don't really have that number with me but if at some point we have it we'll certainly share it with you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Paul Swinand from Morningstar Inc.
Good afternoon and thanks for taking the question.
Question on you're growing the online channel in a number of different ways from the different acquisitions to improving the old acquisitions and obviously (27:28) your own Rack brand et cetera but are you seeing any new or changed productivity in the way you're acquiring customers or the way you're marketing to customers? In other words should that get a more efficient marketing productivity over time or is it getting harder to acquire customers as the comparison gets tougher? President-Stores &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> This is Erik.
It changes constantly how the different variables many different variables in acquiring customers online (28:05) change year-to-year.
They change month-to-month.
So what the mix is between all those different variables we're constantly changing.
(28:16) search engines and market  search engine optimization that we go through.
So I wouldn't say it's necessarily getting harder but I will say that the mix is constantly changing and so we have to change accordingly.
Could you maybe just give us some color on what you're currently seeing for strategies that are working? President-Stores &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> No.
We really don't get into that.
Okay.
President-Stores &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> All right.
Best of luck.
Thanks.
President-Stores &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> Thanks.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Jeff Stein from Northcoast Research.
Good afternoon guys.
Just want to clarify the profitability outlook for Canada.
It sounded to me that 2017 is probably the year when losses are going to start coming down.
So I just want to make sure I'm correct in understanding that it sounds like this will be a year of higher losses and then again 2016 will also be a year of even higher.
Would that be correct? Jeff this is Mike.
We expect 2015 and 2016 to be relatively comparable in terms of the losses and then after we open all the stores and start to get some scale we'll see that get better in 2017.
Okay.
So just from a very high level in terms of when you start harvesting the benefits of your capital program it sounds like this is probably going to be kind of the trough year where you see the greatest pressure on earnings and next year will still continue to see pressure but you would see positive earnings growth year-on-year? That's currently what we're seeing today.
Got it.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thank you our next question is from Barbara Wyckoff from CLSA.
Hi everybody.
Could you talk about the trends in women's sportswear and accessories what were the top performing categories? What's been disappointing? And then if you could comment please on your return rates? You know you're a few years into free shipping and free returns.
Thanks.
Executive VP &amp; President-Merchandising</span></strong> Hi.
This is Pete.
In women's sportswear specifically where we've had the most success which is largely kind of around what we would call our young customer segment and the leading brand and initiative there is the Topshop performance which has been really very very good.
And I think it was mentioned in the comments we're expanding from 50 stores to 80 this year.
And then the existing stores were comping really well there.
That's been a great catalyst for women's apparel in total.
I'd say the other category in women's apparel there's really two that have been pretty good.
Coats have been pretty good and dresses have been pretty solid.
With the accessories leading the way there has been our handbag business and then our jewelry business.
Those have been probably the two categories that have been the best performing.
And returns? Thanks.
President-Stores &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> Yeah I'll take return rates.
This is Erik.
We've had free shipping free returns on Nordstrom.com for three-and-a-half years now.
So there really hasn't been any change since then.
In off-price we do charge I think for both of those.
The important thing is the returns.
Number one returns is a big strategic subject for us.
Being great for customers around returns is something that's long been part of our deal and that certainly includes online.
For us a big part of the value in our approach to returns is in having returns in the store.
So online purchases being able to be return to our store well over 60% of our Nordstrom.com returns end up at our full-line stores well over 70% HauteLook and Nordstrom Rack returns end up at our Rack stores.
Last year at Rack stores that drove as Blake mentioned an additional million visits to our Rack stores.
So there is an absolute synergy.
The returns part is probably the easiest biggest synergy subject for us to talk about when we talk about the synergies between our stores and online.
Again return rates have been pretty stable at Nordstrom.com and what we're seeing more is the benefits of linking it to our stores.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Ed Yruma from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good afternoon.
Thanks for taking my questions.
I guess first you guys did a lot to improve pricing transparency this year by kind of doing this we will not be undersold and then also I guess by changing the sales pattern that you have.
I guess as you hindsight the year did you get the kind of gross profit and sales return you would have liked out of those two initiatives? And then I guess as a follow-up I think you mentioned that the new DC was to support free two-day shipping.
So I guess when does that get put into place? Is there any other negative impact to the P&amp;L from that? Thank you.
Executive VP &amp; President-Merchandising</span></strong> This is Pete.
Well I think with regards to the pricing that was not intended to be a near-term lever to drive results that's much more of a long-term value proposition with customers based on a desire to gain trust and loyalty and confidence over time and it's important for us to be transparent on that whole pricing subject.
And with the way that online business has done now the customers are way more enabled and they've got a lot of information and we've got be respectful of that responsive to it.
So that's just driven how we've adjusted some of our pricing velocity most is still based in a bit of a reactionary thing.
We're trying to run a full-price business here.
We have the natural rhythm cycles of markdowns that happen which gets addressed in our clearance strategy as you talked about going from those two (34:14) to that nearly to the six clearance events.
But the promotional stuff is mostly just a reaction to what happens with some of the competition that's leveled out a little bit here as the year has gone on and then where we are now and that things have moderated at least for now.
I'm sorry the second part of the question...
I can take that.
Executive VP &amp; President-Merchandising</span></strong> Okay.
The new DC opening up we haven't announced that we're going to free two-day shipping.
The point was having an additional fulfillment center is it gets closer to a big chunk of customers.
So about almost half of our customers are within a two-day ground delivery of that Pennsylvania fulfillment center.
And so a big chunk of our orders for both customers will be one to three days faster for them than currently is.
Now we will still ship some orders from our Cedar Rapids fulfillment center to the Northeast we won't have a perfect allocation there but mainly we continue to focus on  and the long-term strategy here is to have a fulfillment network that gets practically all at least over 90% of our customers in the United States within a two-day ground and this is one step in that direction.
And the last part of your question this is Mike you asked about the cost of this and in our comments we noted that there's an anticipated $30 million increase in expense we haven't broken out the DC but that included both the DC and the loyalty program.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks so much guys.
Sure Ed.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Kimberly Greenberger from Morgan Stanley.
Morgan Stanley &amp; Co.
LLC</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
Mike I just wanted to follow up on an earlier comment you made.
You mentioned that you expect earnings growth to reaccelerate after this sort of thrust of the investment program it sounded like that reacceleration would happen around 2017.
Is that a correct read on it? Or do you think it's more the 2018 timeframe? And then just a clarification on your Trunk Club comments I think you mentioned that you were all quite impressed with how quickly the Trunk Club business model was able to get to breakeven.
I think you mentioned that it delivered a $25 million loss in 2014 for Nordstrom and $30 million in 2015 is expected.
Is that differential just a step-up from purchase accounting? Or is there something about acquiring Trunk Club that actually caused them to go from breakeven to a loss situation? Sure Kimberly.
Thanks for your questions.
On the first one I think what we were saying is post-2015 we would start to see earnings growth improve.
I don't think we used the word accelerate but we thought it would improve beginning after the peak year of 2015 investment.
The second part on Trunk Club is we did indicate operating profitability at breakeven.
And you're right.
The losses are related to the amortization of the purchase accounting.
So that's what contributes to that total $25 million that you mentioned.
Morgan Stanley &amp; Co.
LLC</span></strong> Super helpful.
Thank you.
Sure.
Our next question is from Paul Trussell from Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Good afternoon.
$20 billion in sales by 2020 sounds pretty conservative to me but using your forecast how should we think about the margin profile of that business? I think you finished this year around 15% EBITDAR Mike.
How should we think about the next few years especially on the SG&amp;A front? Yeah well Paul it might sound conservative in the numbers but it's a heck of a lot of effort to get there.
We think we have a pretty good plan and $20 billion is a good target for us.
But anyway in terms of how we think about the profitability I'd go back to what's been our longstanding guidance and that's been the high single-digit sales growth and mid-teens ROIC.
It's very difficult to predict precise margins over shorter periods of time but our goal is to target those two numbers and achieving them over that longer period should generate some pretty significant value.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Neely Tamminga from Piper Jaffray.
Great.
Good afternoon.
Can we dig a little bit more into the Trunk Club integration timeline? At this point have you guys flipped the switch the proverbial switch wherever that is with fulfilling Trunk Club orders through Cedar Rapids at this point? Or where are you in that progression? And is that contemplated in the 2015 dilutive impact? Thank you.
President-Stores &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> Hi Neely this is Erik.
No to answer your question.
We're not fulfilling Trunk Club orders out of Cedar Rapids at this point.
They have a  they're doing that out of Chicago.
What we're helping them with is really it's part of our supply chain network.
While not in the physical location of Cedar Rapids our team is supporting that.
An easy tangible example is we've got Trunk Club on our shipping contract with UPS a significant savings with that.
And as our long-term supply chain strategy is to have everything integrated.
That includes our fulfillment centers our DC our stores and long-term we've sort of looked for Trunk Club to be part of that.
But in the short-term they continue to be fulfilled out of Chicago.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Lorraine Hutchinson from Bank of America.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good afternoon.
This is Heather Balsky on for Lorraine.
Could you talk a little bit about your inventory plan going forward especially for the Rack? How are you thinking about pack and hold investment? And then also just could you provide some color on how you're getting to the 300 store target for the Rack? What is that based on? Thanks.
Heather this is Blake.
Our pack and hold has been fairly consistent now over the last I'd say year and half or two years.
It's about 11% of the total company's inventory and so we continue through the vendor partnerships and relationships have terrific access to product that closeout the end of the season that we're able to really pack and hold in the warehouse and use the following  you know six months later.
It helps us turn the corner in each of the existing stores and particularly is a key component for the new store growth.
We mentioned that we opened 27 stores last year and 27 this year.
Pack and hold enables us to execute that.
So that's an approach with our vendor partnerships and vendor  our inventory maximizations that we're really pleased with and working well.
In terms of the 300 stores it's a pretty fluid model opening the Racks in terms of the lead-time particularly compared to full-line stores and we're just learning with each one and we continue to get great reception from the customer.
I think it's really reflected in and we've shared this before on the productivity of the stores.
They both maintain and enhance slightly with the addition of these new stores.
So we're encouraged by those opportunities.
Sometimes there's some vagaries in the retail real estate market year-to-year but we feel very confident looking ahead between now and 2020.
Given the criteria we use for new stores the customer demand the opportunities that are out there that we feel very confident to publicly state that we should have bigger stores by 2020.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Stephen Grambling from Goldman Sachs.
Thanks.
Good afternoon.
I have a few follow-ups to earlier questions.
I guess first can you provide any update on the potential credit card sale and remind us on how you were thinking about capital allocation related to those proceeds? And then as an unrelated follow-up.
As you get to the 300 Rack store target how are you thinking about the margin for this segment on an absolute basis? And any kind of directional basis you can give relative to the other channels? Thanks.
Sure Steve this is Mike.
In terms of the credit card profit as we indicated in our comments we're very pleased with the progress to date.
And we've learned a lot through this process and actually it's been more enlightening in terms of how we think we can better serve our customers going forward.
So we're excited about that.
Should we be successful we would look at the proceeds the same way through the same filters that we've always thought about capital allocation and that is first and foremost we always reinvest back in the business.
That's where we get the highest returns and any excess capital that we have we'll return it to shareholders.
And we're going to put any proceeds we might get through that identical lens.
In terms of the Rack the Rack has and consistently operates with a four-wall operating margin consistent with the full-line stores.
As we go through this accelerated phase you have a little bit of a blip because you're recognizing brands on an accelerated basis before the store opens.
But as those new stores start to become a smaller piece of the pie we should see that four-wall contribution start to get back to what is a more normal run rate.
That's very helpful.
Thanks so much.
Best of luck this year.
Thanks Stephen.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Matt McGinley from Evercore ISI.
Hi Thanks for taking my question.
You have a lot of moving pieces with Rack in the fourth quarter.
So I have kind of a two part on Rack.
As far as the gross margin how much of that decline in the gross margin rate was unplanned versus liquidating inventory position that you built in the third quarter? And then the second part of that as it played out at the register at Rack I mean you likely had ASP compression I assume based on that markdown but your comp was okay it was actually better than the third quarter.
Did you see a new customer come in or did the customer that was coming in the store otherwise just had a bigger basket as they saw the price decline? Well Matt this is Blake.
We talked about in our last call that our inventories were high in the Racks and so the team worked really hard and we're pleased that they were able to take that situation and get back in line and be current with our inventories today in one quarter.
It did have as you talked about  mentioned an impact on the margin.
We had to accelerate some markdowns.
We didn't see a material change in the average price nor did we see any change let's say per se with our customer that  our diverse customer that shops with us.
So the actual execution of the business was very consistent.
Business did pick up.
We don't talk about weather but when things got a little colder in November things like outerwear got better and our Rack business got back to a trend that we'd been seeing prior.
But the third quarter was a little softer.
We think we're in a good position here as we start the new year both at the Rack and all of our businesses when it comes to inventory.
And so we're real fluid at this point.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And we do have time for one final question.
Our last question today comes from Joan Payson from Barclays.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi good afternoon.
Could you talk a little bit about the five-year capital plan and the Canada earnings expectations and whether those include the ultimate plan for Rack stores and an e-commerce launch or would those be incremental? I'm sorry.
The first part of the question was the capital plan and as it relates to the Canada earnings? Inc.</span></strong> So on a separate basis basically the new five-year capital plan and also the Canada earnings expectations do those include Canada Rack and Canada e-commerce? Or would those...
Got it.
Got it.
Yes.
Thank you for clarifying that.
Those do include a placeholder for Canada Rack stores but do not include a placeholder for Canada e-commerce at this point.
Just on Canada e-commerce we do currently do quite a business online in Canada through our dot-com site.
Our business picked up significantly with the opening of our store especially around Calgary.
We're seeing the reverse synergy.
We've always had stores before we had a website.
The first place where we had a website before we had a store and the store opening has lifted our business.
Investor Relations Nordstrom Inc.</strong> Again thank you for joining today's call.
A replay along with the slide presentation and prepared remarks will be available for one year on our website.
Additionally you'll find a summary of our performance and growth strategy at the end of the slide presentation.
Thank you for your interest in Nordstrom.
Thank you.
And this does conclude today's conference.
You may disconnect at this time.
Hello and welcome to the Nordstrom First Quarter Conference Call.
At the request of Nordstrom today's conference call is being recorded.
All lines will be on listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session.
I will now introduce Trina Schurman Director of Investor Relations for Nordstrom.
You may begin.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us.
Today's earnings call will last 45 minutes and will include 30 minutes for your questions.
Before we begin I want mention that our speakers will be referring to slides which can be viewed by going to Nordstrom.com in the Investor Relations section.
Today's discussion may include forward-looking statements so please refer to the slide showing our Safe Harbor language.
Participating in today's call are Blake Nordstrom Co-President and Mike Koppel Chief Financial Officer who will discuss the company's first quarter performance in addition to outlook for fiscal year 2015.
Joining during the Q&amp;A session will be Co-President Pete and Erik Nordstrom and Jamie Nordstrom President of Stores.
With that I'll turn the call over to Blake.
Thank you and good afternoon everyone.
As you know our customer strategy is squarely focused on serving customers on their terms and delivering the high level of service they expect from us.
While we are uniquely positioned to serve customers through multiple ways full-price off-price stores and online we know customers simply view us as Nordstrom.
To support our number one goal of improving the customer experience we are focused on a one-Nordstrom approach that links our businesses with service products and capabilities.
This is important for our customers and critical in generating long-term profitable growth.
We've shared our sales ambition of over $20 billion by 2020.
To achieve this increasing customer acquisition and cross-shopping are important outcomes to improve our relevance with both new and existing customers.
We've made notable progress over the last year achieving our strongest gains in new customer growth in recent history.
We've also seen increased cross-shopping across our businesses reflecting our efforts to give customers more choices in how and where they would like to shop.
Turning to our first quarter performance we're pleased with our results which were in line with our expectation our top-line momentum continued with total sales growth of 10% and a comp sales increase of 4.4%.
Results reflect the disciplined execution and planned growth initiatives.
Later Mike will provide more color on our performance.
We are encouraged with our ongoing rollout into Canada which over time represents a $1 billion sales opportunity.
In March we opened our second store in Canada in Ottawa Ontario.
This fall we will open our flagship store in Vancouver which we expect to be one of our largest volume stores.
This effort will also strengthen our capabilities leading to our upcoming flagship stores in Toronto and Manhattan.
In addition to six full lines stores announced in Canada we also look forward to introducing Nordstrom Rack in the fall of 2017.
In March we also expanded our full-line presence in our store opening in San Juan Puerto Rico.
In October we will add to our 116 full-line stores in the U.S.
with our second store in Minneapolis and our first in Milwaukee.
We are also relocating our South Bay store in Los Angles to the nearby Del Amo Fashion Center.
With respect to the Rack we are on track with our accelerated growth plans opening 10 stores this quarter.
These stores exceeded our expectations and contributed to Rack's 12% total sales growth.
Just last week we opened another Rack store in Dublin California with 16 more planned this fall.
A year ago the HauteLook team launched Nordstromrack.com to elevate the Nordstrom experience  the customer experience.
The momentum continues with our online off-price business which delivered tremendous sales growth at 50% in the first quarter.
From a merchandise perspective we are responding to our customer's desire for fresh relevant brands with the introduction of Charlotte Tilbury Madewell Brandy Melville and several others including those offered in our curated Pop-In Shops.
We're making progress in providing our customers with a shopping experience that is seamless and relevant.
For example we've experienced outside growth in our BP Topshop and Savvy departments particularly where we've created strong adjacencies in our stores.
Topshop continues to be a terrific partnership for us attracting new customers with on-trend fashion at accessible prices.
Three years ago we started with an offer of 15 doors and online.
Based on strong sales performance and customer demand we plan to expand to roughly 90 doors by the end of the year from 67 today.
Our personalization efforts are another way for us to elevate the customer experience.
In 2014 we saw tangible results from our mobile enhancements to make shopping easier and more convenient.
We've added location-based features that are driving in-store sales and enabling a more seamless experience.
More recently we integrated our rewards program to make it more convenient for customers to receive notifications as well as check and redeem their rewards.
As we look ahead in addition to our upcoming store openings we are on track with our other initiatives to improve the customer experience.
This fall we look forward to providing our customers with faster delivery enabled by our third fulfillment center located in Pennsylvania.
Additionally we will roll out our expanded multi-tenant rewards program to all stores and online in the second half of the year.
In closing our customer strategy is guided by customer expectations around speed convenience and personalization.
We believe we are well positioned to deliver an exemplary experience for our customers no matter how they choose to shop with us.
With that I'll turn it over Mike.
Thanks Blake.
Our first quarter performance was on track as we continue to focus on executing our customer strategy.
Reinforcing Blake's comments our number one goal is to improve the customer experience.
Knowing customers increasingly expect both a personalized and convenient experience we will continue to make investments that enable us to serve customers on their terms.
Our first quarter earnings per diluted share of $0.66 were in line with our expectations.
We delivered strong top-line results achieving total sales growth of 10% and a comp increase of 4.4%.
Over the past several years we've been making strategic investments in Canada Trunk Club and HauteLook.
In the first quarter these businesses added $100 million in sales.
As Blake mentioned our online off-price business generated an impressive 50% increase significantly accelerating since the launch of Nordstromrack.com a year ago.
Our full-price business generated a total sales increase of 5%.
This included full-line stores' comp increase of 0.5% reflecting improving trends over the last year.
Additionally Nordstrom.com's momentum continues with a 20% increase.
In off-price the store and online businesses grew 16%.
Rack sales were up 12% reflecting above-planned performance in new stores.
Rack had a slight comp decrease of 0.2%.
We believe these results are temporary and are maintaining full-year expectations of low single-digit comp increases at the Rack.
Our EBIT performance in the first quarter reflects planned growth initiatives including Trunk Club and Canada.
These initiatives are expected to have a relatively larger dilutive impact in the first half of the year.
With our first quarter performance on plan we are reiterating our full-year earnings outlook of $3.65 to $3.80 and sales growth of 7% to 9%.
Our first quarter performance was consistent with expectations notably in gross profit inventory and SG&amp;A.
Gross profit increased slightly over last year by 7 basis points.
Our SG&amp;A rate increased roughly 140 basis points over last year due to our planned investments in Trunk Club Canada fulfillment and technology.
Inventory grew 19% over last year compared with sales growth of 10%.
We continue to make the necessary inventory investments to fuel our store and online growth.
We ended the quarter on plan and current across our businesses.
Now we'd like to provide additional color on our long-term growth plan.
Our strategic investments are a critical driver behind our ambition to deliver a best-in-class customer experience and long-term profitable growth.
Over the next five years we plan to invest $4.3 billion in CapEx or roughly 5% of sales which we plan to fund through our current operations.
Approximately $1 billion or 25% is planned for Canada and Manhattan.
We view these projects as generational investments to meaningfully elevate our brand and gain market share over the next several decades.
We are also investing for growth in existing channels.
As our stores represent the core of our brand and the foundation for a multi-channel experience 40% of our plan will support new store growth and reinvestment.
Additionally technology and fulfillment are key enablers in creating synergies across our business making up the remainder of the plan at 35%.
We previously shared with you this year's CapEx plan of $1.2 billion or 8% of sales.
As we stated we expect 2015 to be the peak investment year due to the concurrent timing of multiple growth initiatives.
This includes Canada Manhattan several flagship remodels and a third fulfillment center.
We expect CapEx in subsequent years to normalize below our plan average of 5% of sales.
Finally we'd like to comment on the potential sale of our credit receivables.
As a reminder we started this process a year ago with the goal of maintaining the important relationship we have with our customers while allowing for improvement in our capital efficiency.
We are nearing the end of the process and will be in a position to provide an update in the second quarter.
In closing our focus on serving more customers while delivering an exemplary experience is driving both top line sales growth and shareholder returns.
We're excited about the momentum in our business and look forward to the opportunities ahead.
With that I'll turn the call over to Trina.
Thank you Mike.
Before we get started with Q&amp;A we'd like to ask that you limit to one question.
If you have additional questions please return to the queue.
We'll now take the first question.
Our first question comes from Oliver Chen Cowen &amp; Company.
Your line is now open.
Thank you very much.
We just had a question related to the Rack.
In terms of that assortment which product categories you think have more opportunity for potential improvement going forward? And then also just on the consumer environment and your strategies around sales could you just update us on what's happening with respect to the semi-annual sale and price matching in the environment? Thank you.
Oliver this is Blake.
I'll take the Rack part of it.
As I mentioned we're very pleased with the growth and how the new stores are performing.
I've commented that we had a very slight decrease in the first quarter on a comp-store sales basis.
Our plan and goals for the year are consistent with our trends previously of low single-digit comp increases.
We saw improvement throughout  towards the end of the quarter there and we feel really good about our plans and we're committed to that.
And so if you ask specifically about what departments are doing better than others.
We have a pretty balanced approach in terms of the contribution.
There's nothing really that I would call out one area that's leading another we feel good about our Rack business and what the team's doing there.
Stores</span></strong> Yeah and this is Jamie.
I'll take the clearance question.
I think we've been talking about it the last couple quarters.
We typically given our five to six times inventory turns to clear merchandise out roughly six times a year varies a little bit depending on department and we've found that we have opportunities to be more effective and how we clear that merchandise out clear out the old stuff to make room for the new stuff.
Our business is at its best when we have a consistent flow of fresh new goods.
So as I think we've been talking about we're trying to make improvements with the clearance bit to make it more efficient more compelling for customers and ultimately we'll have less days of clearance over time.
We're on track to do that this year.
We are going to be making some changes with what they look like how they look online what we call them how we communicate to customers.
We see some pretty exciting opportunities to make those more effective and that will evolve over the rest of the year.
Thanks.
Congrats on solid results.
Best regards.
Stores</span></strong> Thank you.
Thanks Oliver.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Charles Grom Sterne Agee CRT.
Hi good afternoon.
Just to follow-up on Oliver's question.
We noticed that you guys look like you're doing a half-yearly sale at the end of May for 10 days across a few categories of business.
When we thought I think you guys had abandoned the half-yearly sale so I was just wondering if you could clarify exactly what you're promotional strategy is going to be going forward? Are you going to continue to do the half-yearlys or are we going to do the six clearance events? Just some clarity on that would be helpful.
Thanks.
Stores</span></strong> Sure Charles.
This is Jamie.
I'll take that.
Just to be clear we're not a promotional retailer we're a full-price retailer.
We only have one promotion a year that's our Anniversary Sale in July.
But the half yearly clearance events are just that it's a clearance event and we've experimented a little bit with communicating those clearance events using different titles different marketing techniques.
Half yearly is a brand that we used over the years to communicate what that event is all about.
But we typically use that last weekend Memorial Day Weekend in May to clear out a big chunk of our early spring assortment and make room for the anniversary goods that are coming.
So really nothing has changed about that.
We are going from having that late May event from just women's and kids to include men's as well.
So it's an all-store event.
And again that will continue to evolve and we think that over time surely by the end of this year we'll be able to be more effective with how we can clear that merchandise out and ultimately have less days of clearance in our stores throughout the year.
Okay great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question here comes from Lorraine Hutchinson Bank of America.
Your line is now open.
Thank you.
Good afternoon.
With the understanding that some of the specific investments related to fulfillment and others are front-end loaded are there any other factors that we should consider in forecasting a nice acceleration in earnings growth in the back half? Yeah Lorraine.
This is Mike.
A nice acceleration I don't know if I'd gauge it as a nice acceleration.
Clearly for this year we've been pretty clear as to what the expectations are for the year.
We do believe that by the fourth quarter a couple of the items particularly Canada and Trunk Club will start to moderate in terms of the impact on year-over-year earnings so we should see some improvement there.
But we continue to see our core business operating very well and delivering very strong returns and these investments we're making for the long term are putting a little short-term drag on those results but clearly they're starting to accrete to the top line and so we believe over time they're going to get to the bottom line.
Thank you.
Yes.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Matthew Boss JPMorgan.
Your line is now open.
Good afternoon.
This is Esteban on for Matt.
Thanks for taking my call.
New store productivity was strong in the quarter.
How indicative is this of your initial performance in Canada? And then anything new on learnings from your initial store rollout in the region? Stores</span></strong> Yes.
So I'll talk about Canada.
This is Jamie.
I've been told I need to speak up.
So I'm sorry if this a little quiet.
As we've talked about in Calgary we had a great start there and that continued; a little softer start in Ottawa.
We opened that store in middle March early March.
Pretty cold up there and we opened with our spring assortment.
I will tell you that as it's warmed up over the last month our business has improved.
We're very very encouraged at this stage about our performance there both in Calgary and in Ottawa year-to-date.
We're very excited about Vancouver opening September 19.
18.
Stores</span></strong> 18 sorry  September 18.
As Blake mentioned we think that has the opportunity to be one of our very best stores in our company and we've got a lot of work going on in there.
So we continue to be very encouraged about Canada and very bullish on our future there.
And then...
Great.
Go ahead.
I'm sorry.
No I'm sorry.
And then I was going to ask a question on buyback but go ahead.
No I just was going to say on store productivity I thought you were also  this is Blake  being inclusive of the Rack and as I mentioned these new stores are outperforming and we've been pleased that as we accelerate the growth that the productivity of these stores are staying consistent.
We haven't seen any decline with the addition of these stores so overall we're very encouraged.
Got it.
And buyback was a little lower in the quarter.
Is there any reason for this or any change in how you're thinking about capital allocation going forward? Yeah.
Matt (sic) [Esteban] (19:07) this is Mike.
No there's no change in our approach.
I mean we set up a buyback plan matrix ahead of time.
It's governed through a 10b5-1 plan.
It was purely a function of the repurchase amount that was set based on share price.
So no there's no change in our long-term view on share buyback.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Sure.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Dorothy Lakner Topeka Capital Markets.
Your line is now open.
Thanks and good afternoon everyone.
Congrats on the strength in the top line.
Hi Dorothy.
Just wondered you've seen a real come back in the BP business and certainly it sounds like Topshop and Savvy I mean those three together have really created some momentum for you.
So I just wondered if you could speak a bit to that.
And then just you'd also spoken about an acceleration in cross-shopping so I wondered if you could put a little color around that as well? Executive VP &amp; President-Merchandising</span></strong> This is Pete.
With regards to the improvement that we've had in women's apparel most specifically around I guess what we would call our young customer zone that's inclusive of Topshop and BP and Savvy I think the major catalyst there has been Topshop where we've had that and been able to integrate it and create the correct adjacencies related to BP and Savvy.
It's worked extremely well.
And when you combine all those areas together I think it makes pretty powerful statement for that trend customer and so that's worked well.
So I think the adjustments that have been made is our ability to be able to bring those departments next to each other.
And all of our stores are a little bit different in terms of how they're laid out.
So it's taken some time to kind of create the synergy and adjacencies that we need to.
And now that we mostly have that accomplished you're seeing the benefit of that and the business is very strong.
I'm sorry and the other question was about.
On cross-shopping.
Executive VP &amp; President-Merchandising</span></strong> Yeah.
Cross-shopping between what? Between the channels.
Executive VP &amp; President-Merchandising</span></strong> On channels.
Oh.
Yeah.
Dorothy I think you know in terms of the cross-shopping a couple of things that I'll note there is we called out last fall when we launched Nordstromrack.com and HauteLook the large amount of activity that we were driving back into the Rack stores through returns that was a very good example of driving customers across channels.
We also have seen Rack acquire a substantial amount of new customers that ultimately migrate to our regular-price business.
And of course over time we've seen a lot of shopping across between full-line stores and Nordstrom.com.
So I think all the initiatives and the various strategies we put in place continue to bring those barriers down and make it easier for customers to shop.
Great.
Thanks so much.
Sure.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Ed Yruma KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Your line is now open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys.
Thanks for taking my question.
I guess first on the Rack obviously you commented about the strong performance in new stores.
Are you seeing any levels of relative maturation among some of your older classes and maybe when you do some of these in-fill stores are you seeing a negative impact on performance one? And then I guess two we've seen a lot of promotions in the handbag and watch markets.
Are you seeing any negative impact to those businesses within your store? Thanks.
This is Blake.
I would take the Rack part of it we opened 10 stores in the quarter and then just last week an 11th store and some of these stores are in the training area of our existing stores and so we do try to plan appropriate or accordingly to transfer sales.
We don't see anything unusual there.
It did have a very slight impact to the first quarter comp store performance for the Racks but it's not material enough we believe to call it out.
So there's nothing unusual to transfer sales that we could speak to.
Executive VP &amp; President-Merchandising</span></strong> Yeah.
I'll take the price promotion thing with watches and handbags.
I think that's true.
Increased price promotion is not different business as far as we're concerned.
Jamie talked about it and I would just reiterate the same thing that the best thing that we could have going for us for a healthy business is newness and not price promotions.
So yeah that has had a bit of a negative impact but there's always  there's a lot of hopeful things to be working towards and I think the whole industry is interested in getting back to some more regular priced business so it's been a good catalyst I think for discussions around newness and the ways that we could evolve this business so that's compelling to customers to buy new things and that's happening right now.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks so much.
Thank you.
Our next question from come Jeff Stein Northcoast Research.
Yes a couple of quick ones guys.
First of all I'm wondering is  do you think there might be some cannibalization in your off-price online businesses and Nordstrom Rack because it looks like you've seen some acceleration in the online segment and at the same time deceleration in the stores.
And second question would be the impact of Trunk Club and an on-going entry into Canada had a $19 million negative effect on Q1 so if you add that back you were essentially flat and I'm wondering how should we think about that if you back out those kind of incremental items? This is Blake.
In regards to HauteLook and Nordstromrack.com and any potential impact to the Rack itself we've seen a real positive experience this last year with HauteLook and the Rack in particular we can make it more seamless for the customer whether it's  probably want to purchase or return and we think that applies to Norstromrack.com as well.
So I understand the question and why you would want to pursue that further but our focus is letting the customers shop how they want to shop.
We look at it totally across the board when we put as an off-price both online and in the stores.
We're really pleased with that gain and again we think it was just a very temporary number of issues that contributed to Q1 to being slightly down and we're committed to that growing.
So I think that question will be more prevalent if you saw in the future that continuing and we would need to expand upon that.
Okay.
And then the $19 million incremental spend from Trunk Club in Canada again adding that back that would only get you to kind of flat EBIT relative to last year? Sure Jeff.
This is Mike.
You're absolutely right about that.
There's a number of things going on that are part of our overall strategy.
We continue to see an acceleration in the impact of our technology investments.
Those are assets that are coming online relatively quickly and have a relatively short life so we can continue to see that adding more to the SG&amp;A.
We also opened a fair amount of new stores and when you open stores you have an increase in SG&amp;A where you don't see the commensurate earnings as of yet.
So we continue to see some of the pressures of the things we're doing to grow our business and have the right foundation for the future.
Got it.
Thank you.
Yes.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Neely Tamminga Piper Jaffray.
Your line is now open.
Great.
Good afternoon.
Just two quickies from me.
In terms of mobile app for the loyalty program being better integrated for Nordstrom.
Are there plans to do that also with the Rack HauteLook app? In terms of better utilizing the notes et cetera and what sort of engagement are you seeing there? And then real quick on products you've talked about NPG for a while and for what it's worth Nordstrom Collection looks amazing right now and I'm just wondering if the consumers are actually demanding more private label from you and that's taking up some of your penetration from where you guys have been in the past? Thanks.
Neely this is Mike.
I'll take the first part of the question regarding the mobile app and Trunk Club and some of our newer businesses.
Our plan is to over time certainly include those businesses on that program but we're in the process right now of building out some new foundations for our loyalty program.
We're going to introduce a non-tender this fall and I think the important thing is we focus on getting that done first and getting our larger businesses supported by that.
And then subsequent to that we will put the functionality into some of our newer businesses.
Executive VP &amp; President-Merchandising</span></strong> This is Pete.
With regards to the NPG question thanks for noticing yes we've had good NPG business and our sales are growing faster in NPG than it is across our branded business.
And it's good.
It's just been part of our intentions and plans and it's been working out well.
I'd say in particular some of the strong places where we've been performing is we've introduced Rack NPG in a much more purposeful way and that's gone very well.
The accessible price points particularly in some of those more trend and young customer departments that we talked about earlier and women's particularly like in BP and Savvy that's gone extremely well and also in t.b.d.
So across the board NPG is performing well.
It's an important part of our strategy and we will continue to let it find its level.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Paul Swinand Morningstar.
Your line is now open.
Good afternoon and thanks for taking all the questions.
Just wanted to ask with the Rack online doing so well but it's really a small base now if you've got several different online brands can you give us a little color on what you're finding or learning and the differences are between the brands and what your strategies are from the different brands going forward? President-Stores &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> Hi Paul.
This is Erik.
I'd say overall it's what Blake said earlier that our plan is to provide customers choices to shop how they want to shop.
One of the interesting things about launching Nordstromrack.com is seeing the difference in customers between that business and our HauteLook business.
The flash sale business is still a very viable business a big business.
It's one that we think is really additive to what we do and there is a synergy there that foundation that HauteLook had allowed us to launch Rack.com much sooner than we would have been on our own.
So we're seeing synergies of those businesses in things like product.
I think our product in Nordstromrack.com has improved significantly since launch.
There's  we're continuing to explore some synergies with marketing.
But again there's a point  while there's some customers that go back and forth there's  they are separate customers.
Customers some customers prefer flash.
Some categories are stronger in flash and some prefer persistence.
So we really like the combination.
Interesting.
And do you think though all  do they add to your inventory turn? Do you think your inventory turn can still continue to improve? President-Stores &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> Yes.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Best of luck.
President-Stores &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> Thanks.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from Paul Trussell Deutsche Bank.
Your line is now open sir.
Inc.</span></strong> Good afternoon.
A big chunk of your $4.3 billion CapEx plan for the next five years or is it this year.
So should we expect a kind of relatively equal balance over the next four years of say $750 million to $800 million or is 2016 perhaps a little bit elevated as well? And also I believe that you mentioned Mike that these CapEx projects would be funded out of free cash flow.
So if you do successfully reach terms on the credit card and it sounds like you're close what's the priorities with that cash influx? Is buybacks the focus? Sure.
Paul first on the CapEx as we said we expect in the forward years after this year that the CapEx as a percent of sales will start to  will be below the average of 5%.
Next year should be measurably lower than it is this year and we should see it gradually even off after that.
In terms of capital I would just reiterate at this point in time that we've had a very balanced approach in terms of how we not only invest our capital but also how we return it to our shareholders.
And so should we be successful with the sale of the credit receivables then we'll apply those lenses and we'll study what the most appropriate way is to deal with that excess capital and we'll certainly let you know what we decide.
Inc.</span></strong> I appreciate that.
And then I know you don't give very specific quantification or margins per segment but just given the kind of scale and productivity levels you've reached now with the Rack can you just kind of remind us or update us on how the margin profile of the Rack business compares to the other areas particularly the full line and how we should think about maybe the impact to total EBIT as the rack becomes a bigger piece of the total? Sure.
Well you know the Rack as we've stated in the past behaves a little differently than our regular price business but when it comes to the contribution the four wall contribution it's very similar to the full line business.
So as that business continues to grow it's contributing positively to the overall earnings growth of the company.
Now that being said as you go through the investment cycle we're going through right now it looks a little different but long term that has a very positive contribution.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Michael Binetti UBS.
Your line is now open.
Hey guys.
Good evening and congrats on a great sales quarter.
If interestingly if the  you talked about your confidence in the Rack business accelerating maybe just a little bit more on some of the components of what you saw in the quarter relative to that slowing down? I don't know even know if anybody's asked if the West Coast port issues had any impact on you there.
And then also you articulated some confidence in that reaccelerating through the year.
Maybe you could talk about what gives you confidence there or any of the details behind that? Hello Mike.
This is Blake.
Regarding the port we're no different than any other business that had some minor impact to that but we just didn't think it was material in particular at this later date to call out.
So for us it didn't have an impact on the figures that warranted further explanation.
In terms of the business we talked about it a little bit.
We've debated a little bit prior to the call should we go through some of the very minor nuances that maybe could have contributed to the Rack having a slight decrease.
Again we've just seen some improvement there.
We're going against from last year the best performance we had in a two-year time period in terms of the Q1.
But there were a number of little contributions that created that decrease but we're very confident about our plans for the year and our ability to continue with the trends we've had in the past and the budget we have of low single-digits and again we think the results of late are demonstrating that and so we feel good about it.
And then if I could just follow that up for a second it's I would say you're one of the few soft lines companies we've seen whose sales in the first quarter came in above the plan for the year so maybe taking a little bit of pressure off the rest of the year and hitting your targets.
If you are able to accelerate the Rack and I don't know that you're going to tell me that you expect one of the other banners to slow down Mike would your  given that you've already articulated a multi-year investment plan to us would your preference be to let some of the EPS flow through the rest of the year? Or are there few investments that you look at you say we could speed those up if things came in better than we thought? Yeah Michael I don't think any change in the sales pattern particularly on the upside is going to change our current game plan for the year.
We've got a lot on our plate.
We're running real hard to get everything done.
So if we're able to generate some incremental flow-through that'd likely be the case.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Joan Payson Barclays.
Your line is now open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
This is Bridgette Taylor on for Joan Payson.
Just a quick question on Rack.com.
What do you expect the growth of Rack.com to be going forward given we will now be wrapping the launch of the site? And then secondly given this is a higher CapEx year what do you expect the effect on full-year free cash flow and the cash balance by the end of the year? Sorry what do you expect those to be? President-Stores &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> Hi Bridgette.
This is Erik.
We don't release expectations around Rack.com's growth rates.
So I'll stay away from that one.
Okay so I guess I'll answer the second part of that.
So Mike well this year in terms of free cash flow I think we've said this is going to be year where we're not going to generate excess free cash flow mostly because of our CapEx plan.
By the end of the year cash levels will be approximately where they are now.
I think they're roughly about $800 million right now.
They'll probably be between $800 million depending on how the business performs.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks so much.
Yes.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Kimberly Greenberger Morgan Stanley.
Your line is now open.
Great thank you so much.
Mike obviously you've got some incremental SG&amp;A expenses flowing through the P&amp;L for the investments that you're making in the business including the expansion that you're engaging in.
I'm wondering if you can talk to us about how to think about SG&amp;A dollars going forward and in future years.
Should we expect any decline in future years for example in the actual dollars being spent or is it simply a matter of growing the top line over time so that you can leverage the investments that are currently being made.
Yeah Kimberly.
Well first with the kind of growth plans we have it's frankly tough to imagine that SG&amp;A would decline.
Hopefully we're in a position that we continue to grow and we're funding that growth.
So I don't envision SG&amp;A declining.
If you're going to get leverage it's going to come from the top line.
We continue to look for opportunities to re-calibrate elements of our business to make it more efficient as customer preferences are changing and that's helping us.
But in terms of expectations that SG&amp;A would decline I wouldn't factor that into your models.
Great thank you.
Yes.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Matt McGinley Evercore ISI.
The line is now open.
My first question is on gross margin.
Last year you had a fairly substantial decline in gross margin as it related to the competitive markdowns you had in Rack and loyalty and although there wasn't much movement this quarter it was up a little bit; I suspect there were some bigger moving pieces that were underneath it given the volatility you typically had in this line.
And if you could give us some color on what was the drag or were you better in merch margins or was loyalty more favorable? And then Mike I have a quick follow-up on the share repurchase question.
I understand you use a grid but would you expect to offset the options dilution and your share count would be lower over the course of the year? Or should we expect this kind of rate that you're at today in terms of share count would be  where you'd be around at the end of the year? Sure.
Well first with the gross margin.
There's a few things going on there.
I'll tell you from a merchandise margin standpoint we're relatively even with last year.
We had some deleverage in some components of the expense and some leverage in other components of the expense that make up that line.
The other thing to understand is that the Rack becomes a larger percentage total of the business.
Rack has a lower merchandise margin than the rest of the business and so you're going to have just by very nature a mixed impact of that.
But our margins overall were on plan.
So we felt good about the performance there.
In terms of share repurchase we every quarter we recalibrate our buyback matrix.
We still have a substantial amount of authorization left to buy back shares and we're still committed to a balanced approach to reallocating  to allocating that capital.
So I think what you should see in the future would be consistent with what we've done in the past.
Great.
Thank you.
Yes.
And our next question comes from Bob Drbul Nomura Securities.
Your line is now open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good evening.
Just had a couple of questions.
On the inventory levels in terms of the 19% increase can you give us a breakdown in the different buckets with inventory for store growth the online growth Canada Nordstromrack.com? And the other question is just with how much of the inventory that used to go from the full-line stores to Rack is that number changing? Where's it been trending recently? Sure Bob.
This is Mike.
In terms of the inventory levels we included on our slides there was a chart that I think directionally indicated where those increases were coming from.
We didn't share exact numbers but I think you can certainly imply qualitatively where the growth was coming from from those slides.
In terms of Rack product that's coming from full line Blake's going to handle that.
Yeah so it has a function of the sell through within the full-line stores which Jamie talked about we're always working on to be more efficient.
But as we add more stores percentage-wise it comes down a little bit.
I do think it's important to note that you should look at it as well as the full-price business and off-price business.
So as we have a more robust e-commerce business in full price there's a portion of goods there too that we clear through the Rack.
So it's not just a function of store count from full line to Rack.
Again thank you for joining today's call.
A replay along with a slide presentation and today's remarks will be available for one year on our website.
Additionally you'll find an overview of our performance at the end of the slide presentation.
Thank you for your interest in Nordstrom.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for joining and you may now disconnect.
Greetings and welcome to the Nordstrom Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
We will begin with prepared remarks followed by a question-and-answer session.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
At this time I'll turn the call over to Trina Schurman Director of Investor Relations for Nordstrom.
Thank you.
You may begin.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us.
Today's earnings call will last 45 minutes and will include 30 minutes for your questions.
Before we begin I want to mention that our speakers will be referring to slides which can be reviewed by going to nordstrom.com in the Investor Relations section.
Today's discussion may include forward-looking statements so please refer to the slides showing our Safe Harbor language.
Participating in today's call are Blake Nordstrom Co-President; and Mike Koppel Chief Financial Officer who will discuss the company's second quarter performance in addition to outlook for fiscal 2015.
Joining during the Q&amp;A session will be Erik Nordstrom Co-President; and Jamie Nordstrom President of Stores.
With that I'll turn the call over to Blake.
Thank you and good afternoon everyone.
As we previously shared with you our customer is at the center of our strategy as we focus on creating a differentiated experience in each of our businesses.
While we've been pursuing distinct strategies to grow each business we're also working to link them together to provide our customers with a seamless experience.
This is important because we know that when customers engage with us across multiple touch points their lifetime value and spend increase significantly.
Our second quarter performance demonstrated the ongoing execution of our customer strategy which is driving continued strength in our business.
We achieved total sales growth of 9% and a comp increase of 4.9%.
The Anniversary Sale our largest event of the year performed on plan and was consistent with our trend led by strength in Cosmetics and Women's Apparel.
This past May we announced our strategic credit partnership with TD Bank.
We are pleased to be partnering with a premier financial institution that shares our customer focus as aligned with our approach of having Nordstrom employees serve our customers directly.
We're planning to wrap up the process by the end of the year and Mike will provide more detail in his remarks.
As we mentioned we are focused on further integrating our businesses through service and experience product and capability.
Our recent initiatives around stores and mobile along with our Trunk Club acquisition are ways to create a more relevant experience with our customer.
We consider full-line stores to be the core of our brand providing our customers with a high level of service they expect from us.
Not only are we serving more customers through new stores we are benefiting from synergies across our channels.
For example when we opened in Calgary and Ottawa we saw a meaningful increase in online sales in those markets.
With two stores open to-date our Canada business is performing ahead of plan.
Next month we will open our Vancouver flagship store with an elevated service offering.
We plan to open three stores in Toronto over the next couple of years and introduce Racks in the fall of 2017.
In the U.S.
this October we will also open full-line stores in Minneapolis and Milwaukee and relocate a store in Los Angeles.
The growth of the Rack is also an important element of our strategy to gain new customers and increase engagement across channels.
As we mentioned before the Rack business now represents our biggest source of new customers attracting around four million in 2014.
The Rack also serves as an entry point to the Nordstrom brand providing opportunities for customers to cross-shop.
For example last year we had one million Rack customers start to shop at our full-line stores or nordstrom.com for the first time.
We are on track with our Rack growth with 16 openings planned in the third quarter for a total of 194 stores by the end of the year.
Mobile is an important enabler of convenience as customers increasingly desire a more seamless shopping experience.
Of the U.S.
population two-thirds own a smartphone and roughly one-half shops on their device presenting a meaningful opportunity for us with over 90% of our customers using smartphones.
To evolve with our customers' rapidly changing expectations we're rolling out new features at a rate three-times faster than last year.
In addition to our ongoing mobile enhancements we launched a unique text-to-buy feature for our salespeople enabling customers to buy product via text.
As customers continue to want a more integrated shopping experience we view mobile as a long-term priority to provide a richer experience for our customers.
Roughly a year ago we acquired Trunk Club a personalized innovative clothing service for men.
Trunk Club is planning to roughly double its sales this year with opportunities to leverage our existing capabilities and resources.
Additionally Trunk Club's stylists have collaborated with our buying teams to pilot Trunk Club's service to women with a full launch expected in September.
We're excited about the shared synergies similar to our experience with the launch of Nordstromrack.com last spring when we combined HauteLook's e-commerce talent with Rack's merchant expertise.
From a merchandising perspective we're also focused on integrating our business to provide our customers with a differentiated offering.
This is enabled by our vendor partnerships where we can offer a one-stop-shop for distribution across channels and categories.
Through these partnerships we've been able to better serve customers by complementing our curation in store with breadth online.
For the past several years we've expanded online selection by over 20% annually through key brands that are resonating with customers.
These brands also help us create excitement and attract new customers.
In particular we're having success in our younger customer-focused departments which are now among our fastest-growing categories.
As recent examples we're expanding Topshop Madewell and Brandy Melville to more doors this year.
These unique brands are increasing our fashion relevance with customers in addition to creating synergies and strength across Women's Apparel.
Lastly we're building on our enterprise capabilities to support a seamless customer experience.
Over the last decade we have made significant investments to develop our multi-channel capabilities.
Today we're also focused on offering our customers faster delivery.
This will be enabled by our third fulfillment center which opens this month and will be fully operational by holiday.
The center is expected to increase our fulfillment capacity by over 50% supporting our long-term growth.
In closing we are confident in our ability to execute our customer strategy as we evolve with our customers focusing on service and experience product and capability.
With that I'd like to turn it over to Mike.
Thanks Blake.
This quarter marked continued progress executing our customer-based strategy and evidenced that we are on track to reach our growth ambition of $20 billion by 2020.
To achieve this long-term growth we made a strategic decision several years ago to accelerate our investments to gain market share and strengthen our capabilities.
These include generational investments in Canada and Manhattan as well as our strategic investments in Trunk Club and HauteLook.
Technology is also an integral enabler of the customer experience representing a critical element in linking our enterprise.
Just as importantly we are investing to assure a strong technology platform that delivers the necessary flexibility and scale to achieve our growth ambition.
Given the dynamic nature of customer expectations and its impact to our business we are committed to evolving our financial model to ensure that we deliver sustainable profitable growth over the long-term.
In the near-term we are seeing the benefits from our investments which are driving top line strength in our business.
Our 9% sales gain marks the fourth consecutive quarter of high-single-digit sales growth.
We've invested in new markets and concepts with our entry into Canada and the acquisition of Trunk Club and the Nordstromrack.com launch.
In the second quarter these new businesses collectively added over $100 million to our top line.
We are also seeing continued strength in our existing business.
Our combined full-line store and nordstrom.com business delivered mid-single-digit comp increases over the past year.
The growth in our off-price business continues with Rack's total sales increase of 13% which represented 26 consecutive quarters of double-digit growth.
Rack had a comp increase of 1.7% on plan for a low-single-digit comp for the year.
Nordstromrack.com and HauteLook grew 50% in the first half of the year on track to reach $0.5 billion by the end of the year.
As discussed previously we're evolving our clearance strategy to make these events more relevant for our customers.
Historically our merchants had category-specific strategies to clear goods.
Over the past year we recognized an opportunity to leverage and scale our business by having all categories participate in clearance events aligning with the seasonal markdown cadence during major holidays.
We believe this is an opportunity to drive more trips and improve sell-through with fewer days on clearance.
This year we are moving towards 20% fewer clearance days relative to a couple years ago with another 25% reduction planned next year.
The quarter demonstrated good execution with respect to inventory and expense.
Our gross profit rate was comparable to the prior year.
We ended the quarter in a good inventory position on plan and current.
Our inventory growth of 11% reflecting planned growth and was roughly in line with our sales growth of 9%.
The underlying inventory trends of our existing business continue to be healthy reflecting inventory levels and turns in line with our expectations.
Our SG&amp;A rate increased roughly 85 basis points primarily due to our planned investments in Trunk Club and Canada.
Our Nordstrom Rewards loyalty program is an important way for us to create new and strengthen existing customer relationships.
With 4.5 million customers in our program sales from members increased 10% and represented roughly 44% of our volume this quarter.
In addition early access to shop the anniversary event continues to be an important benefit attracting 7% more new members.
As we look ahead we are planning to expand our program to include a tender neutral option for customers which is targeted for next year.
Next we'd like to provide additional color on our capital framework.
We maintain a strong financial position ending the quarter with a cash balance of $425 million and adjusted debt to EBITDAR of 2.1 times.
Maintaining balanced capital allocation year-to-date we incurred $425 million in net CapEx paid $140 million in dividends and repurchased $265 million in shares with $735 million remaining under current repurchase authorization.
Return on invested capital of 11.9% decreased from 13.2% a year ago primarily reflecting the acceleration of our growth investments.
Our credit card portfolio remains healthy with delinquencies and write-offs around pre-recession levels.
Moving on to the credit transaction.
The sale of the receivables will improve our capital efficiency.
We expect to receive approximately $1.8 billion in net proceeds at closing.
Because we are planning on fully funding our long-term growth through our current operations we're not intending to apply the proceeds to our incremental investment.
While we are currently evaluating our plans we are committed to maintaining our capital structure using a balanced approach.
In terms of the financial impact of the transaction we reclassified our receivables as held for sale in the second quarter resulting in the reversal of the allowance for bad debt.
In addition under the program agreement with TD Bank we will be entitled to a substantial portion of net revenue generated by the portfolio.
We estimate the cash impact of this revenue share agreement while maintaining our credit operating expenses will result in roughly 50% of credit EBIT retained.
This is based on our current level of receivables.
We believe that going forward this EBIT gap could narrow due to the future growth in the portfolio.
Lastly we are working through the details of the transaction and its related accounting treatment.
An update of the overall financial impact will be provided following closing which is expected by the end of the year.
Now let's turn to our 2015 outlook which remains on track for the year.
Relative to our prior outlook we narrowed our EPS expectations to the high-end of the range before factoring the second quarter credit impact.
Our top line expectations reflect the continuation of current trends with total sales growth of 8.5% to 9.5% and a comp sales increase of 3.5% to 4.5%.
In closing we're making progress in executing our strategy and achieving our growth ambitions which is centered on our goal of delivering a superior customer experience.
With that I'll turn the call over to Trina.
Thank you Mike.
Before we get started with Q&amp;A we'd like to ask that you limit to one question.
If you have additional questions please return to the queue.
We will now move to the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you.
And our first question comes from the line of Jeff Stein with Northcoast Research.
Please go ahead with your question.
Good morning guys.
One of your competitors recently indicated that they do about 5% of their sales in tourist destination type markets and that's had a pretty material impact on their comp store sales.
Just kind of curious if you look to your business that way and if you could just give us some indication what percent of your sales would be in markets such as Los Angeles Seattle Chicago and so forth.
Well Jeff this is Mike.
We certainly in those markets do have tourists that visit our stores.
We really haven't commented or frankly paid particular attention to the amount of tourists we have in those individual stores.
I mean we're focused on running our business and having the best product and to-date it really hasn't been a discussion point for us.
Got it.
Can I ask a follow up question then? Wondering on Trunk Club for women is there going to be an incremental spend? In other words was that part of your original plan when you targeted the estimated losses that you indicated in your Q4 release or will this be incremental? It's not incremental to the current projections that we've shared.
Got it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Charles Grom with Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi.
Thanks gentlemen and congrats on a good quarter.
Mike just to clarify your comment here on the percentage of EBITDA you're going to retain.
Is the 50% of your credit  is it 50% of the credit income that you're going to retain is that all-in or is that less the loyalty reward expense? Can you just kind of explain that in a little bit greater detail for us? Basically the credit EBIT that we currently report we segment out in our financial statements it will be 50% of that reported amount.
In terms of loyalty we continue to retain all the costs of our loyalty program.
Okay.
Good.
And then can you just again just on the credit can you explain how the $51 million that you received here in the quarter how did that get accounted for? Sure.
Basically it was roughly $64 million of the gain related to the reversal of the allowance for doubtful accounts.
And in addition to that we had some expenses related to the transaction and also we had impairment of an asset that we had on the books.
Okay.
And then just my last question it'll be real quick.
The guidance that you're giving  the forward guidance that does not include anything from credit going forward right? In terms of  I'm sorry  in terms of the credit sale? It doesn't include any additional amount that's correct.
It's just what we've recorded to-date.
Okay.
Okay great.
Thanks very much.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Neely Tamminga with Piper Jaffray.
Please go ahead with your questions.
Great.
Thank you and congratulations on a well-executed quarter.
Just wanted to ask a little  I just want to ask a little bit more about Anniversary Sale.
Two questions.
Did you see  what sort of fashion dynamic did you see in Anniversary Sale beyond just dresses and coats that you could share with us on early fall that gives you some confidence to the back half? And secondly I know from time to time you guys will comment about how people will purchase kind of fuller priced product during sale moments whether it's clearance or Anniversary Sale.
Could you give us some characterization of that behavior as well? Thank you.
Hi Neely.
This is Erik.
I'll take that one.
Anniversary was executed really well for us.
I'd start with some context.
It's an enormous amount of volume for us in a month that is a very slow month in the industry.
So it's a big part of our year every year a lot of planning goes into it.
And it helps a lot of the flow of our year.
One thing that has changed a bit over the years our customers are more and more interested in buy now wear now merchandise.
So it's less about selling merchandise that our customers put away in their closet for October and November than it used to be.
So I guess in that regard it's not quite the predictor of more true fall selling but it is new brand new merchandise that customers are choosing to buy now and wear now.
And then our top-performing divisions for the event were Beauty and Women's Apparel.
Across Women's in particular our younger customer departments really had a terrific event.
We continue to see a lot of strength in Topshop Brandy Melville's extended distribution helped.
We launched Cupcakes and Cashmere line in t.b.d.
So there was a lot of newness in Women's and a little more around the year in customer that got traction.
Again Beauty both treatment and fragrance proved to be really strong.
Thank you.
Thanks Neely.
And our next question comes from the line of Oliver Chen with Cowen &amp; Co.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi.
Congratulations on an awesome quarter.
Thank you.
Regarding the evolving clearance strategy the slide's really helpful.
I just wanted to get a sense of the overarching theme here.
Is the objective to increase merchandise margins? And I was wondering the implication of driving trips and having less days.
Like what's the longer term vision for how these work better? They do seem more customer-centric.
Stores</span></strong> Oliver  yeah this is Jamie.
I'll take that one.
As Blake said or I think it was Mike said we've been consolidating what used to be different categories clearance events.
We'd have a Women's clearance event and then a few weeks later we'd have a Men's clearance event.
To consolidate those into fewer bigger events that  I agree I think they are a more relevant way for customers to shop and they do coincide with how our industry traditionally receives and moves on to the next season.
Yeah we definitely see an opportunity to improve our turns and our margin.
That's not really the point though.
I think it's about maximizing our ability to have a flow of fresh new goods into our stores.
That's what drives our business more than anything else.
And certainly driving trips is part of that but we hope to drive trips by having stuff the customers want to buy.
So the more we can execute that flow of fresh new stuff hopefully that will drive trips overall.
Okay.
That's awesome.
And your comments on mobile were really helpful about those details.
As we analyze mobile in the holiday season what would you say would be the most incremental kind of year-over-year changes that the mobile customer is going to experience this year versus last? Oliver this is Erik.
A couple of things we've launched in the last quarter.
Text to buy would be one we're pretty excited about where I believe we're the first to have the functionality where customers can buy through texting with their salesperson.
We launched a personalized homepage on our mobile site.
We have integration with our loyalty program we launched an Android app and we also launched near-store notification.
So when you're driving by our store we have relevant notifications we can send to our customers.
Those I think would jump out to me as the biggest differentiators versus last year.
Okay great.
Thanks.
Best regards and good luck for holiday.
Thank you.
Thanks Oliver.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Matthew Boss with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hey guys.
Great quarter.
You are one of the few retailers out there that's seeing positive brick-and-mortar sales.
I mean it's a pretty tough question but do you think maybe we've seen a potential floor in terms of the shift that you had been seeing from brick-and-mortar towards e-commerce? And with that any change in traffic patterns at brick-and-mortar in terms of some of the changes that you've made to the promotional strategy? Stores</span></strong> I'll take that.
This is Jamie.
You know we've been focused for a number of years on really trying to create a seamless experience for our customers whether they're shopping online or in the store or on their phone and we've made and we continue to make progress on that.
We don't think the customer is loyal to channels.
We don't hear customers talk about channels very much.
Customers value experiences and so the more successful we're at in creating a great shopping experience no matter how they're choosing to shop I think the better our business will be.
And so we're talking about mobile and the things we're doing there.
The sale can happen all over the place.
They might be shopping in a store and buying on their phone.
The customer doesn't care where the sale gets recorded.
They just want the best stuff and they want to have the best experience on their terms.
And so the more we're focused on that and less on the channel I think the better our business will be.
Great.
And then just a follow up as we think about the profile on a go-forward basis I guess Mike can you help bridge for us the delta between a potential return to mid-teens ROIC over time versus today's low-double-digits? And any changes we should consider as it relates to the credit transaction in terms of the ROIC? Sure.
Yeah Matt we should see over the next 12 months the impact of the investment cycle start to flatten out on the ROIC and then we should see it start to progress back up.
In terms of the impact of the transaction  of the credit transaction once that cash gets fully deployed we should expect several hundred basis point improvement in the ROIC.
Great.
Best of luck guys.
Okay.
Thanks Matt.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Joan Payson with Barclays.
Please go ahead with your question.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good afternoon and congratulations on the strong quarter.
Thank you.
Inc.</span></strong> I was hoping you could talk a little more about the reduction in clearance days.
Are you expecting any short-term disruption to comps from that just given the optics will look a little bit different to the consumer? And then also in line with that we've been hearing from a few vendors and brands out there that they're working on becoming less promotional in the department store channel or resisting a little bit the off-price exposure to some degree.
Has that affected your business at all in the Rack or in terms of changing the promotions? Stores</span></strong> Joan this is Jamie.
I'll take that one.
I think if you look at our top line and overall performance over the last few quarters you can infer that our evolving clearance strategy is driving part of that.
We're pretty happy with our progress there.
Clearly we're moving some sales around on the calendar and the history gets a little mixed up but overall we're pretty happy with the performance so far and the results we've had.
In terms of promotion we're not really a promotional retailer.
We do compete in an industry that is pretty promotional and we do often have to compete on price when another retailer might get promotional on a certain brand or classification.
We would certainly hope that as an industry there is less promotion and we get more focused on service and differentiated product assortments.
We think that's what drives the healthiest business over time and not the short-term promotion.
So  but we'd certainly welcome that and we hope that it does happen.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Kimberly Greenberger with Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed with your question.
Kimberly your line is live.
I'm sorry can you hear me now? Yes.
Hello? Hello.
Okay.
Sorry.
I'm so sorry.
My phone was on mute.
Really nice quarter.
I'm wondering we heard yesterday from Macy's that they were seeing some signs of more promotional activity.
They indicated really at the Bloomingdale's level the sort of higher end department store level.
I' wondering if you're seeing any of that in your business.
And maybe you can just update us on the success of your price matching strategies that you're working on.
Thanks so much.
Sure.
Jamie do you want to comment again on the promotional end? Stores</span></strong> Yeah.
I mean as I mentioned earlier over the last couple of years I don't think it's been a secret that our industry has been more promotional than historical levels.
I can't speak to any particular competitors out there what they are doing.
We're pretty focused on our deal and our customer and what works for them and how to best serve them.
So I couldn't really speak to that.
The second part of your question was on say that again? The price matching.
Stores</span></strong> Price matching? Price matching.
Stores</span></strong> Yeah we've long believed for many many years that we don't want to be undersold.
That if a product that we sell is available for less out there then that's the price that the market is at and we need to be there.
So it is part of the nature of our business that if you can buy something that we sell cheaper somewhere else if we don't match that price you're probably not going to buy it from us.
And we think it's just good customer service and part of earning our customers' trust that we have market prices.
We set our prices fairly and we're a full-price retailer.
We sell that merchandise at regular price until it's time to clear it out.
When there is a promotion that we need to match we'll match it.
But it's all about earning the customers' loyalty and earning their business over the long-term.
Great.
And thanks Jamie.
Kimberly I would just add that in terms of the impact year-over-year our overall merchandise margins were relatively flat year-over-year so any perceived increase in promotional activity did not have any kind of significant impact to our margin performance.
Great.
Thanks.
Yes.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Ed Yruma with KeyBanc.
Please go ahead with your question.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi guys.
Thanks for taking my question and congratulations on a great quarter.
Thanks Ed.
Inc.</span></strong> First I guess Mike just a quick clarification on your commentary on capital structure.
Are you saying simply that the existing cash balance is kind of the way we should think about framing it going forward? Or are you targeting your kind of current leverage ratio? And then I guess as a follow up you guys have had great growth in e-comm obviously investing against a lot of that growth opportunity.
At what stage do you begin to leverage some of those investments so that e-comm margins improve? Thank you.
Sure Ed.
The comment around capital structure is frankly it's about those two items you mentioned but it's also about how we deploy capital.
I think one of the things you might have noticed in the last quarter that the amount of capital that we invested was almost equal to the amount of capital that we deployed back to shareholders.
And so the inference there is we want to continue to have a very strong balance sheet and we want to allocate our capital in a way that delivers the best returns both by reinvesting in the business and returning it back to shareholders.
So that's basically what we're saying.
In terms of the leverage of the investment well certainly our intent and what we do is we wouldn't make these investments unless we thought we were creating value.
And we still expect them to create value.
I think one of the challenges we all face right now we're still in relatively early stages particularly in this e-commerce space in terms of understanding how that model is evolving and the elements of that model that we need to find to be more productive.
So we do expect to continue to create value.
We have a long-term aspiration to get back to that mid-teens ROIC and that will come from these investments starting to generate some additional profit.
Inc.</span></strong> Great guys.
Thanks so much.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Dorothy Lakner with Topeka Capital.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thanks and good afternoon everyone.
Congrats also on the quarter from me.
And certainly all of the efforts to bring new product into the stores you've had tremendous success with some of the younger departments as you said.
Just wondered if you could update us on where we're going to end up in terms of expansion of those brands by year-end.
I think you had said last quarter Topshop would be at 90 by year-end but also just wondered about Brandy Melville and Madewell which is relatively newer.
And then also you've put six Shoes of Prey boutiques into some of your larger stores.
I wonder how that's going and whether you plan to expand that.
Hi Dorothy.
This is Erik.
Hi.
I'll take a stab at that with gone (34:32).
Topshop we grew six doors in the second quarter to get to 73 and you're right we plan to be at least at 90 by year-end.
That business is doing terrific.
And I would highlight on that is our growth in Topshop is not just coming from new doors our top store growth  some of our best business has been our original doors that have that.
They've been a terrific partner and have made and as great merchants do those subtle adjustments to really deliver what the customer is looking for.
So great shape in Topshop.
Brandy Melville we've launched in 15 doors.
I don't think we've announced any plans for expansion past that but certainly it would be our intention to have that be successful and get into more doors.
Oh Madewell I don't have  we're at 30? 15 to 30 (35:27).
There we go.
Okay.
And then Shoes of Prey was there - Yeah.
Shoes of Prey we're in the...
Yeah all those (35:37) shoes.
...and to-date we've been pleased with that test or that partnership and we're continuing our shoe team led by Scott Meden to work with those folks about future opportunities.
But today I think both sides are happy with how that's going.
Great.
Thank you and good luck.
Thanks Dorothy.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Trussell would Deutsche Bank.
Please proceed with your question.
Inc.</span></strong> Well good afternoon.
Good quarter guys.
When it comes to Nordstrom Rack you had a difficult compare from a year ago.
Just wanted to know are you guys pleased with the 1.7% comp performance this quarter? How you think about the business in the second half of the year? And are we already seeing perhaps the dot-com business maybe take a small bite out of the in-store sales? So Paul this is Blake.
Yes we are very happy with our Rack business and my comments were that  and it was in the slides I believe as well  that we saw 13% growth.
And in Mike's comments as I recall he highlighted that we've had 26 consecutive quarters of double-digit gains totally.
So the big headline there is that we're gaining market share there and it is meeting and exceeding our plans.
It's a terrific investment for the company and our shareholders and continues to be highly productive.
We recently just did some post-audits on some of our newer stores and they're outperforming.
It's interesting you talked about the online or e-commerce part of that business.
We're new with Nordstromrack.com and it married with HauteLook.
When you flip those two together it was a 16% gain for the quarter.
So the low-single-digit comp increase was an improvement in the second quarter from the first quarter.
It's in keeping with our plan and we fully expect that to meet our plans at year-end.
So overall the Rack business is very strong and healthy and contributing in many ways.
Inc.</span></strong> That's helpful.
Thank you.
And then you have a very detailed slide in the 2Q presentation that outlines the margin impact of growth initiatives and breaking out the Canada and Trunk Club versus the enablers.
As we think about that drag from the East Coast fulfillment center Mike and the expanded loyalty program is that something that kind of rolls over into 2016 as well? Or is Q3 and Q4 kind of the heaviest points of investment? And then similarly on Canada and Trunk Club the drag seems to lessen as we move towards the fourth quarter.
Is that just a function of it being the holiday period in 4Q? Or directionally should it continue to improve in terms of contribution as we turn the corner? Sure.
Well Paul first thing is I won't go into too much detail as it relates to 2016.
We like to share more of our thoughts on that plan when we  coming February.
But that being said starting with the East Coast fulfillment center that's going online in the third quarter and the reason you see that large incremental change starting in the third quarter is because the asset goes into service and we start to recognize both the depreciation as well as the cost of running that building.
Now early on that building isn't going to be quite as productive as it will be as our business continues to expand.
So we will see some drag from that.
And in terms of Trunk Club Trunk Club is starting to anniversary the recognition of the acquisition accounting because we acquired that business last year at this time and so you're going to start to see the year-over-year impact of that start to fade.
But we'll certainly play that out more for you when we talk about 2016.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks a lot.
Good luck guys.
Sure.
Our next question comes from the line of Lorraine Hutchinson with Bank of America.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you.
Good afternoon.
It looks like you took the SG&amp;A rate a little bit higher for the year.
I was hoping you could give us some context around what the additional expenses were driven by.
Yeah Lorraine this is Mike.
The majority of that increase is related to fulfillment costs.
As we continue to see the online segment of the business growing at an accelerated rate we're seeing the variable costs related to that business go up.
Thank you.
Yeah thank you.
Our next question comes from Michael Binetti with UBS.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey guys.
Good evening.
Congrats on a great quarter.
Thanks Mike.
Mike I wanted to see if I could pick you apart on the gross margin outlook just a little so I understand what you're thinking for the second half.
If I put together a few of the data points here I think you said that the gross margin on Trunk Club in Canada was only about one basis point better than reported so those seem to have similar gross margins to the total business.
You point to the enablers becoming a bigger drag in the back half but those seem like they would hit more on  those seem like they would hit gross margin more.
I'm trying to think if you're telling us that the merch margins are going to improve since you're basically guiding gross margin flat in the back half.
Well Michael you did pick us up a little bit on that.
We didn't quite go into that level of detail the way you explained it but what I will say is that part of the issue in the gross profit line while we have seen some misses (41:32) within the business we also see the Rack growing at a rate that's faster than the rest of the business which on that line on that gross profit line does have an impact of putting a little pressure on that line.
But in terms of those other components we really didn't get into that level of detail and I think what we guided for the balance of the year is consistent with where we expected business to be just several quarters ago.
All right.
And let me just ask you a quick follow up then.
I think you said last quarter on the current  you said you want to keep your current capital structure but I think you said last quarter that you don't really love accelerated share repurchases but it seems like your investors could participate in a pretty big slingshot in earnings over a five-year outlook if you were to somehow direct a majority of the $1.8 billion to lowering the share count as you start rolling off peak investments in Canada and Manhattan and e-commerce and the Rack acceleration this year.
Can you just help us think about what kind of vehicles are the most efficient for you at this point? I don't feel like you're pointing us to some kind of a one-time dividend that would pay people a cash sum today.
That doesn't seem like it's as efficient as what you would look for longer term.
Well that's kind of a leading question Michael.
Isn't it? What I'll say to that is that we continue to evaluate all our options on there.
I mean we have a diverse base of shareholders and we've gotten input various levels of input and we're evaluating that.
We haven't made a decision yet as to exactly what we're going to do but I think keeping in line with the fact that we like to keep things balanced and we like to consider all our alternatives those that you mentioned are part of that.
Okay.
Thanks a lot guys.
Okay.
We'll now take one more question.
Thank you.
Our final question comes from the line of Richard Jaffe with Stifel.
Please proceed with your question.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Oh gosh.
Thanks guys.
What's first? Can you talk about some of the other categories that performed well or perhaps underperformed dramatically that you see as an opportunity in the second half? And then if you could also comment on Trunk Club's thinking regarding inventory and the opportunity to blend the Nordstrom inventory and the Trunk Club offering.
Sure Richard.
On the merchandise categories as I mentioned younger customer departments were a standout.
Dresses were good.
We saw strong business in denim women's fit in particular.
Men's tailored clothing was a standout in our men's area.
Below our average I think two areas that are going to drive some attention watches and handbags two areas that had a number of years of outsized growth have been below the average.
I think that's pretty cyclical.
It's hard to have to be above the average every single year.
But those areas I would call out.
For the Trunk Club inventory to-date it's been a men's business and they buy their own inventory.
We have found some opportunities for our merchandising group to help them.
But Trunk Club for women is really a transformational effort for our two teams.
Much like launching Rack.com was for our HauteLook team.
That was an initiative that really brought our team together and had to be executed in a highly integrated way.
Trunk Club for women is the same.
To execute that successfully our teams needed to work together.
So we will be leveraging our women's inventory to support that business.
We'll be buying a little bit extra for it but mainly leveraging our Nordstrom.com inventory that is housed in our Cedar Rapids fulfillment center.
And we've been piloting Trunk Club for women since the beginning of the year slowly ramping that up and the customer response has been very encouraging.
And we're on track as Blake mentioned to have a full launch in September and we're darn excited about it.
Great.
Again thank you for  oh sorry Richard.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> No thank you.
Okay thank you for participating on today's call.
A replay along with the slide presentation and prepared remarks will be available for one year on our website.
Additionally you'll find an overview of our performance at the end of the slide presentation.
Thank you for your interest in Nordstrom.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Nordstrom Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
We will begin with prepared remarks followed by a question-and-answer session.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
At this time I'll turn the call over to Trina Schurman Director of Investor Relations for Nordstrom.
You may begin.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us.
Today's earnings call will last 45 minutes and will include 30 minutes for your questions.
Before we begin I want to mention that our speakers will be referring to slides which can be viewed by going to nordstrom.com in the Investor Relations section.
Today's discussion may include forward-looking statements so please refer to the slide showing our Safe Harbor language.
Participating on today's call are Blake Nordstrom Co-President; and Mike Koppel Chief Financial Officer who will discuss the company's third-quarter performance in addition to outlook for fiscal 2015.
Joining during the Q&amp;A session will be Erik Nordstrom Co-President; and Jamie Nordstrom President of Stores.
With that I'll turn the call over to Blake.
Thank you and good afternoon.
While we're on track with executing our long-term strategy I'd like to first comment on our current performance.
Over the past couple of years we've had consistent top line trends delivering six straight quarters of mid single-digit comp increases.
Beginning in August we experienced a slowdown across our full-price and off-price businesses.
We had a 6.6% increase in total sales and our comp sales were 0.9% which resulted in third quarter earnings that were below our expectations.
While we haven't seen a meaningful change to our customer growth metrics we did see a decline in our transaction growth relative to the first half of the year.
As this softness continued we've been able to quickly respond ending the third quarter with inventory aligned with our expected sales plans.
As we head into holiday we don't anticipate a measurable change in current trends and we've made appropriate adjustments to our operating plans including our inventory levels.
As we look ahead we remain confident in our strategy making progress through multiple growth initiatives to enhance the customer experience and serve more customers.
In the third quarter we had an unprecedented number of store openings with three new full-line stores one relocation and 16 Rack stores.
This was a noteworthy effort reflecting our investments and our team's successful execution.
Our total full-price business had a 3.2% sales growth and a comp increase of 0.3%.
This includes our continued expansion in Canada which represents a $1 billion sales opportunity by 2020 with six announced full-line stores and potential for roughly 15 Rack stores.
On September 18 we achieved a new milestone with our first international flagship opening in Vancouver British Columbia.
Not only was it the most successful opening we've experienced in our company's history it is a major step forward in store experience and services.
This store will provide learnings as we expand our flagship presence to Toronto next year and later in Manhattan.
In our U.S.
full-line businesses we opened our second store in Minneapolis our first in Milwaukee and a relocation in Los Angeles.
These stores reflect our latest store design which are now featured in nine locations.
We're also investing in our flagship stores in Chicago and Seattle which are currently undergoing significant remodels.
At Nordstrom.com we've made ongoing progress on our strategic priorities around selection convenience and experience.
This included expanded selection of roughly 20% and increased capacity with our new East Coast fulfillment center.
Our off-price business inclusive of Rack stores and online had a 12% sales growth and a 2.4% comp increase.
This business gives us access to new markets and a pipeline of new and younger customers to Nordstrom.
Since the launch of Nordstromrack.com over a year ago we are finding that the pace of growth is accelerating faster than we anticipated.
To put it in perspective it took our Nordstrom.com business nearly 15 years to reach $1 billion in sales.
From the time we acquired HauteLook in 2011 we expect our online off-price business to achieve this milestone in roughly half that time.
Similar to our full-price business we see meaningful synergies for customers to engage with us across stores and online.
We are serving more customers with 16 additional stores taking our total Rack store count to 194.
Additionally our online business had a meaningful gain in new customers to Nordstrom over the last year.
Lastly on October 1 we completed the sale of our credit portfolio to TD Bank.
Our mutual commitment to having Nordstrom employees serve our customers directly was paramount to this partnership.
We're also pleased to be returning $1.8 billion in capital directly to our shareholders through a balanced approach.
On October 27 we paid a special cash dividend of $900 million or $4.85 per share and the remaining proceeds will be applied towards share repurchase.
In closing we are well-positioned through our customer strategy while remaining focused on our current execution.
I'd like to now turn it over to Mike who will provide more color on our performance and the credit transaction.
Thanks Blake.
This quarter we experienced a sequential slowdown in sales trends.
For several previous quarters our comp sales were solidly in the mid-single digit range driving a high-single digit total sales growth.
In August we began to see a slowdown that progressed throughout the quarter remaining relatively steady at a 1% comp sales trend.
As these lower trends persisted we immediately began to adjust our operating plans including aligning our inventories with expected sales.
Our results reflect those efforts which included increased markdowns and a reduction in sales plans for the remainder of the year.
We believe we have made the appropriate adjustments and will continue to move forward with our growth strategies including Canada eCommerce initiatives and the expansion of our off-price business through new Rack stores and Nordstromrack.com HauteLook which are performing above expectations.
Our full price business inclusive of full-line stores Nordstrom.com Canada and Trunk Club grew 3.2% driven by online and new store growth.
Canada continues to exceed expectations.
Trunk Club is projected to grow at a healthy rate as we position the company to leverage Nordstrom product and introduce Trunk Club for women.
Turning to our off-price business we continue to invest in stores and online capabilities which have fueled nearly 20% annualized growth over the last five years.
In the third quarter our off-price sales increased 12% reflecting online growth that has well surpassed expectations.
Since our acquisition of HauteLook less than five years ago this channel now represents over 10% of our off-price business.
In contrast it took us over 10 years for Nordstrom.com to reach this level of online penetration.
Next we'd like to provide additional color on our gross profit and inventory performance.
Gross profit was negatively impacted by below planned sales and higher markdowns coming in 163 basis points lower than last year.
Inventory growth of 8% was in line with sales growth reflecting adjustments made to align inventory levels with our expected sales plans.
Turning to SG&amp;A our core operations were well managed with expenses consistent with expectations.
Our SG&amp;A rate increased 68 basis points primarily due to our growth initiatives of Trunk Club Canada and fulfillment.
This quarter we completed the sale of our credit card receivables and would like to provide further detail on that transaction.
As previously shared $1.8 billion of net proceeds are being returned to shareholders evenly split between a special dividend and share repurchase.
We recently completed the payment of the dividend and we are now preparing to execute the share repurchase portion which is expected to begin this quarter.
For 2016 we estimate that the financial impact will be approximately breakeven to earnings per share considering both the retention of roughly 50% of credit EBIT and $900 million of share repurchase.
Going forward we believe this reduction of credit EBIT will narrow based on portfolio growth through TD's partnership.
Finally let's turn to our 2015 outlook which incorporates our third quarter performance and an adjustment to our fourth quarter plans based on current sales trends.
When excluding the credit transaction impact our earnings per diluted share outlook is $3.40 to $3.50 compared with the prior outlook of $3.70 to $3.80.
As we look ahead we remain on track to achieve our sales ambition of $20 billion plus by 2020.
To reiterate our long-term expectations we anticipate improvement in earnings growth beginning in 2016 as we move beyond this year's peak level of investment.
More specifically we expect the gap between sales and earnings growth to narrow over time as our investments deliver earnings accretion.
As we head into the fourth quarter we are being rigorous in making the appropriate adjustments to our operating plans in response to current sales trends.
Over the longer term we remain confident that the execution of our strategy will deliver top quartile shareholder return.
Now I'll turn the call over to Trina.
Thank you Mike.
Before we get started with Q&amp;A we'd like to ask that you limit to one question.
If you have additional questions please return to the queue.
We will now move to the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our first question is from Matthew Boss with JPMorgan.
Please state your question.
Hey guys.
Thanks.
So as we think about the ROIC with the credit card transaction now complete and really taking a multi-year view what level of underlying annual comp and EBIT margin do you guys need to reach that mid-teens goal? Any help just kind of bridging the gap would be great.
Yeah Matt.
This is Mike.
At this point we're not going to look forward to that level of detail in our plans.
We'll share more of our thinking about that in February but that being said we still stand behind our ambition to achieve a high single-digit comp sales that will achieve that mid-teens ROIC.
Okay.
Great.
And then if I could just follow up with one.
As you break down the Rack so brick and mortar below plan but online clearly above expectations how are you thinking about the aggregate in total? Any need to potentially slow the growth? Or is this just the online versus brick and mortar that we've been seeing for the last couple of quarters and years across all of retail? Matt just to clarify your question that was specifically related to the off-price business? Yes.
Exactly.
I'm sorry Matt.
This is Blake.
Can you restate that for me please one more time? I didn't hear the question.
Yes.
So just at the Rack question.
Just at the Rack brick and mortar below plan online above plan just the best way to think about it going forward in aggregate.
Sure.
Thank you.
We are mindful of all aspects and measurements of the business but we look at the business in total through the customers' eyes and as we've been talking about for some time with our full price business and the Nordstrom.com as one unit same is happening sooner than later with our off-price business.
So there are some minor pockets with our growth of some sales transfer but we really look at it and that's why I made the comment in my remarks as a total.
And as a total we had 12% total growth and comp at 2.4%.
We're gaining market share.
These are very productive stores with a significant return and we're pleased and confident with our strategy there.
Great.
Best of luck.
Thanks Matt.
Next is Dorothy Lakner with Topeka Capital Markets.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks and good afternoon everyone.
Congrats on all of the new things that you got done in this quarter the store openings the credit transaction et cetera.
Just curious about performance across merchandise categories when you started to see the slowdown what were you pleased with? What were you not pleased with? Weather impact? Just any color you could provide on what's working and what isn't and how you've adjusted? Stores</span></strong> Sure.
Dorothy this is Jamie.
I'll take that one.
I think the trend was pretty darn consistent throughout the third quarter starting in August so no real change throughout the quarter.
In terms of merchandise categories it was really across the board.
I think the categories that have been strong for us all year continue to be strong.
Our beauty business has definitely been a bright spot.
Our younger customer business particularly around our Savvy Topshop businesses continue to be above trend.
It's interesting in terms of seasonal things.
Our coat business is really strong.
And so there's really nothing to point to in terms of merchandise category that would give you any more color on that.
It's really kind of across-the-board lower transactions.
So traffic is really the big issue? Stores</span></strong> I think that's right.
Yeah okay.
Next is Paul Trussell with Deutsche Bank.
Please proceed with your question.
Inc.</span></strong> Hello.
Hi Paul.
Inc.</span></strong> Question on the traffic issue then.
You spoke to seeing the slowdown in August.
It's the same throughout the quarter and you do not expect it to bounce here in the fourth quarter.
Have you guys kind of been able to do some digging and see what has led to that slowdown especially given that it is throughout all the formats and online? What do you think is behind this? Paul this is Mike.
Clearly there's been a lot of commentary out there as to what potentially is causing this.
It might be one it might be all.
At this point our point of view is what we can do about it is we can adjust our operating plans we can continue to manage our inventories appropriately and we could ensure that our stores and our website has the right stuff to sell.
And that's what we're doing.
Next is Kimberly Greenberger with Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks so much.
Mike I'm wondering if there is an opportunity to take a look at the marketing budget or the channels of marketing that you're using to see if there might be a way to drive traffic to the stores or the website.
I'm just wondering is there any actions you can take in either the near term meaning the fourth quarter or looking out into 2016 and 2017 that you think might impact that traffic change? Yeah Kimberly.
This is something that's an element of how we run our business all the time.
We have a lot of resources available to us whether it's online marketing whether it's more traditional forms of marketing that drive traffic.
That being said we also evaluate what's the value of that last dollar spent and its ability to drive more business and we look at that very closely as well.
We have a very rigorous plan in place for holiday that's around traditional periods of traffic as well as a gifting program.
And that's something that we continue to elevate every year.
So we are going to continue to do those kinds of things and we expect that those will help improve our business.
Next is Oliver Chen with Cowen &amp; Company.
Please proceed with your question.
LLC</span></strong> Thank you very much.
Regarding the markdowns and kind of cleaning the inventories.
Which classifications did you conduct that most on? And we just wanted to ask you a little bit more about Rack.
The comp on the bricks and mortar decelerated on a two-year stack.
Were there tweaks that you would have made? Or what happened with the product assortment there? If there's anything specific to call out that would be helpful.
Stores</span></strong> Hey Oliver.
This is Jamie.
I'll take the first part of that.
In terms of markdowns like I mentioned earlier there wasn't really any specific call-out in terms of category.
The team in our Nordstrom Merchandising group as usual did a great job of reacting to the trends in our business.
We're in the fashion business and there's an ebb and flow there and our team is pretty good at reacting and managing as things are going up and things are going down.
So we feel pretty darn good about our inventory position going into the fourth quarter and our ability to continue to react to business as it changes.
Blake do you want to take the next part? Sure Oliver.
This is Blake.
On behalf of the Rack team if we were to go back maybe six nine months and look at our plans and how we executed our merchandising plans we felt really good about it.
And a number of improvements we felt were made from previous year in trends.
And so the bottom line is the customer and sales are the truth.
And so though we might focus on specifics where we thought we had improvement with value or flow or assortment or the editing process or how we turned the corner in the fall there just were a number of initiatives that encouraged us to be able to meet and exceed our plans.
But as you pointed out we fell short of our plans.
So overall this is a very profitable highly productive business.
We think we're doing the right fundamental things.
We like our strategy there but we are very mindful of that reduction in comps and we're working on that on a day-to-day basis.
Oliver this is Mike.
I just wanted to add one more comment to add on to Jamie's comments around inventory.
The speed with which we responded to the situation has put us in a position that not only are inventories aligned and on plan but they're also current.
And that is very important because first place the early markdown has the best value and having current inventory allows us to flow in the latest stuff.
And so while it created some disappointment in order; we believe it continues to position us well going forward.
LLC</span></strong> Okay.
And could you just brief us on what do you think is happening with the customer because customers do have a certain amount of extra money but it doesn't seem to be going anywhere so clearly.
Because I just wanted your thoughts on that because it's been a very confusing retail tape.
Oliver this is Blake and we've said this many times.
We're not economists we're merchants.
And we concur with you that if you get to a higher altitude and you look at the scorecard there are a number of economic indicators that look real positive for U.S.
and the consumer and spending yet all we can tell you is in our business we saw a slowdown.
And it was across the board as Jamie talked about.
It wasn't regionally or a merchandise region or a channel.
We saw compared to our plans a very similar reduction again across the board and it went for the whole quarter and that's why we felt strongly that we should plan accordingly for the fourth quarter that way.
So we're going to get after it each day.
I think the key thing is what Mike talked about with the inventories.
We believe we're in a strong position.
We are not on our heels.
We think we can react to the customer we think we have the type of functionality and experiences the customer is desirous of.
But ultimately the customer is saying something right now in retail in our niche and we need to get after it LLC</span></strong> Thank you for the transparency.
And best regards for the holiday.
Thank you.
You too Oliver.
Thanks.
Next is Lorraine Hutchinson with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you.
Good afternoon.
I wanted to follow up on the comments about the gap between sales and earnings growth narrowing.
Is there a certain comp that you'll need to leverage SG&amp;A next year and also are there any SG&amp;A cuts that could happen if sales don't reaccelerate? Lorraine this is Mike.
As I said earlier at this point in time we're not going to go into a comp discussion.
We'll talk about more of that in February.
Historically the model has leverage at a low single-digit comp.
Part of what we're all learning at this point is that was a model that was built off of a mall-based distribution network and now we have malls and we have the internet.
And so the business model does look a little different and we're continuing to refine how we think about it and how we invest in it.
In terms of anything we're looking at going forward the areas that we're seeing the biggest growth in outsized investment are in technology in our fulfillment and in our online marketing.
And we continue to look at opportunities there to ensure that that last dollar that we're investing is creating value.
So those are the areas that I think we'll over time continue to evaluate.
Thank you.
Next is Joan Payson with Barclays.
Please proceed with your question.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good afternoon.
Thank you.
I was just taking a look at the dynamic in terms of the cost associated with Canada and Trunk Club which looked like they're coming in maybe a little bit heavier this year than anticipated and the enabler cost may be coming in a little bit lighter.
So could you just help us think about as we begin to look at next year how those dynamics could begin to shift? Sure.
Well this is Mike talking.
The things that are driving that is number one Trunk Club we acquired roughly a year ago.
And so we should see that start to moderate as we anniversary primarily the amortization of the acquisition costs and on a year-over-year basis the impact starts to narrow.
And then the second thing is Canada.
With the opening of several new stores and the under-construction of a number of stores we saw some outsized expense growth to support that.
Next year the impact of that should basically be neutral on a year-over-year basis.
So we should start to see a little relief and you're seeing it in the fourth quarter.
That chart we presented I think shows that the impact of those items really start to neutralize when we hit the fourth quarter.
Inc.</span></strong> And how would the  do you expect the enabler costs to progress going forward? Well I think the enabler cost was primarily there at the fulfillment center and we should see that basically moderate over time as well.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
Yeah.
Next is Bob Drbul with Nomura.
Please proceed with your question.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
I just had two quick questions.
The first one is in a period where you're transitioning with the inventory is the movement  is there any inventory that goes above the trend from the Nordstrom full-line stores to the Rack in terms of allocation? And the second question is Mike is on the share repurchase plans now with the proceeds is an accelerated share repurchase a possibility? Well Bob.
This is Blake.
I'll take the inventory question the first part and Mike will get the second.
Ultimately if we have sales challenges in the full-line stores then that transfer of goods rolls to the Rack.
We need to then adjust the special purchase of the close-outs we buy around that and our Rack team is working on it.
As we mentioned our inventories in total for the company are in line.
So the Rack it's important that they stay fluid for whether it's returns throughout the various channels how the customer wants to shop those vagaries (27:09) and also the changes that can take place in full-line.
But there's nothing noteworthy at this moment.
What was a little bit noteworthy we called out is we proactively took some additional markdowns to ensure that we were addressing slow sellers and we were getting this stuff sold.
And so that did have an impact on margin.
Thanks Blake.
Bob in terms of the ASR yes an ASR is part of the several alternatives we're looking at as we look at starting to deploy that excess capital in the fourth quarter.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you very much.
Good luck.
Sure.
Thank you.
Next is Paul Lejuez with Citi.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey.
Thanks guys.
Just wondering on the gross margin pressure if you saw more in the full-price business versus the Rack.
Maybe just  can you talk about what you saw in each of those two businesses? And then separately any thoughts about relaxing the credit standards on the credit card as you guys determined with TD what the right standards are? Are you guys running at a very low rate of write-off bad debt.
Just wondering if there's any thought to maybe use that as a potential driver of top line? Thanks.
Well Paul this is Blake.
We actually saw a little bit of the opposite of what you described.
The full-line was fairly consistent with their margin performance this year versus last year and Racks were down slightly due to increased markdowns.
And I guess the biggest contributor to that would be we're really pleased the online off-price part of the business.
Nordstromrack.com and HauteLook.
The vast majority of the HauteLook customers were engaging in a return or visiting our Rack and we think that's a real plus for the company.
But that's generated a comparison from last year some more markdowns to move some of those goods.
So totally for Nordstrom I think it's a good thing but Rack incurred some more markdowns on that.
Paul in terms of your question on credit standards.
A couple of things I would say.
The first thing is we've always tried to build a long-term relationship with our customer through our credit card and the customers that have joined us and that have opened accounts have been very loyal.
As a matter fact this year we're on track to open another million new accounts and we've opened those accounts with the same credit standards we've always had.
So in terms of using that as a lever I think we would be very thoughtful and cautious about that.
Sometimes those generate near-term sales but don't necessarily generate the healthiest sales.
And so we'll continue to look at that as perhaps pockets of opportunity but I wouldn't say that that is a material lever to impacting sales.
Got you.
And just as a follow up on Blake's answer.
The Rack weaker margins at Rack is that a function of having more product that came from the full-line business? If you can maybe share what percent of Rack merchandise was from full-line versus source specifically for Rack this quarter versus last year? I'm sorry.
I wasn't clear on that Paul.
I thought I mentioned that it came from predominantly HauteLook and Nordstromrack.com.
The full-line store transfers were fairly consistent and weren't material from previous years so that margin and that performance is fairly similar.
It was an uptick due to how the customer wants to conduct business.
In this case do some returns in the stores which is fine but it just created a difference this year versus last year a little bit of an apples and oranges.
Got you.
Sorry I misunderstood.
Good luck guys.
Thanks Paul.
Next is Jeff Stein with Northcoast Research.
Please proceed with your question.
Good afternoon guys.
Okay.
Just a real quick question on SG&amp;A.
It looks like on a lowered sales forecast you're still looking for relatively similar SG&amp;A change as a percent of sales 70 basis points 75 basis points...
Yes.
...instead of 60 basis points.
So does that imply that you have made some adjustments downward in your expenses? And if so where would that be? Because it would seem that if you're in an investment mode that would be a fixed bucket particularly in Q4? Well Jeff one thing to keep in mind is we have a relatively meaningful variable cost model both in the stores and online.
So when we reduced our sales expectation some of those variable costs did come down.
And then of course we're making some other adjustments as it relates to a softer top line but those adjustments are not related to the investments we're making for the long term.
Okay.
Where would it be Mike? Any area in particular? Would it be store selling home office? Yeah Jeff I'm not going to get into too much detail on that.
But I will tell you based on the fact that our stores are 100% commissioned in the regular price lower sales would mean that you'd have lower selling cost.
Okay.
Got it.
Thank you.
Next is Neely Tamminga with Piper Jaffray.
Please proceed with your question.
Great.
Good afternoon.
Hi Neely.
Hi.
Did you dig into any of the looking at the customer cohorts on the Rewards programs like levels one through four to see if they're behaving differently? Are your higher value customers actually dropping off more versus the one? I know you guys haven't really seen much but I'm just kind of curious to ask that question framed up a little bit there.
Then on anniversary sale for Blake maybe or someone else on the team it's historically been I think a pretty decent predictor for you guys for holiday has been at least our observation.
And it was a good anniversary sale.
Clearly the customer is responding to some newness in fashion.
We're just trying to bridge why the drop off.
Sure.
If it's a fashion related issue.
Thank you.
Yeah.
Sure Neely.
Thank you.
In terms of your question on the loyalty side no we haven't seen a material change in the cohort the segmentation however you want to talk about it in terms of how that customer is behaving.
As I said earlier we continue to add new customers onto our loyalty program.
I think we had mentioned earlier that in Canada we've had a non-tender program that is now generating over 60% of our sales there and it continues to be a very good story there.
So I wouldn't say that that affected any of the top-line change.
Stores</span></strong> Neely this is Jamie.
I'll take the second part.
So on the anniversary sale we did have a good event this year.
The one thing that's changed about that event over the last number of years is that it's become increasingly about current buy now wear now merchandise as opposed to as you recall in years past where it was people buying a lot of fall goods that they put in their closets for a couple months.
So I think the anniversary is probably been a little bit less of a predictor of fall than it was 5 10 plus years ago.
That being said again I'd reiterate that there's really not a seasonal component to where we've seen transactions slow down.
Our coat business has been really strong having big increases.
It's just a traffic thing.
We've got less people buying clothes this quarter than we expected and there's really nothing else to point to.
Can I just follow up with what's one of your worst-performing categories? You mentioned what some of your better performing categories are.
But if you were going to rank what some of your underperforming categories are what are they? Thank you.
Stores</span></strong> Yeah we don't really have anything dead at the bottom that's really dragging us down.
I know you're looking for something that's dragging us down.
There's really not.
Everything is really at the same trend that it's been at least for the last few quarters.
We feel good about a lot of the initiatives that we've been talking about the last year or two particularly women's apparel.
We continue to see really great opportunities there that we're continuing forward on in beauty.
In boots  I'm sorry in shoes boot business has been really strong for a few years.
That's leveled off but I wanted to say that it's a category that's dragging us down.
It's just like every category took a step down in terms of trend and that's about it.
Yeah Neely and this is Blake.
I just would underscore Jamie's comments because in the past we could talk about variances within the regions and within the merchandise divisions and you could get after it.
Outside of the call-out that Jamie made at the beginning about beauty leading the way everyone else is in a pretty tight band.
The basis point difference between outside of beauty the top performer and the bottom is pretty tight and we don't think it's material and that's why we're not calling out because there isn't anything to be gleaned from that.
Okay.
Good luck out there guys.
Thanks Neely.
Next is Charles Grom with CRT Capital.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi.
Not to beat a dead horse but to follow up on Paul's question.
Is there anything that you guys are seeing today across your customer or across product category that remind you guys of what happened in 2007 2008 when your business started to slow? Because it's definitely not a Nordstrom issue right.
You got Whole Foods comping negative Macy's is comping negative.
There seems to be something out there.
So I'm just curious if you guys have seen anything that gives you any playback to back to that period? Yeah.
Charles this is Mike and I'll take a swing at the same question as well.
Clearly this is not as dramatic as what we saw in 2008 2009 which was a pretty significant change.
We went from what was a mid-single-digit comp trend to a low single-digit comp trend.
As the guy said we've seen it across geography.
We've seen it whether it's in-store online.
We've seen it by category.
But it certainly is at not that level of drama that we saw during that period.
But you know what? One of the things that we have noted is that it did kind of reach this new plateau and kind of stayed there and that is what gave us very clear evidence that we needed to respond and respond quickly.
And I think I would add that it's really apples and oranges.
It was a dramatic economic change that took place there at that time and we have the opposite to a degree here.
We have some positive economic indicators but the customer is voting with their dollars in a manner were she or he came closer to the best here and all we can do is talk about our business.
And what we saw in the third quarter was a reduction about 400 basis points across the board our business.
It wasn't the wholesale change we saw in that 2008 time period but it's material because our plans were for a higher performance and it has an effect.
We're pleased with how our team is responding and we think we're in a good position for the fourth quarter.
We think we're being prudent on how we're planning it and time will tell if we execute that properly.
Okay.
Thanks for the color.
And good luck.
Sure.
Thanks Charles.
Next is Michael Binetti with UBS.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey guys.
Good evening.
I wanted to ask you the level of the gross margin compression in the quarter was a little bit counterintuitive to me even as I sit and listen to you guys talk through some of the decisions you made in the quarter and the level of sales you saw.
I'm just curious.
Does the third quarter gross margin  did you take some marks and write them down in the third quarter that you expect for the fourth quarter or is the majority of the incremental markdown and clearance that you think will occur in the fourth quarter as you reset your sales plan is that going to still occur predominantly in the fourth quarter? Sure Michael.
This is Mike.
The markdowns that caused the compression in the third quarter were directly aligned to what we said earlier.
And that is we saw a sales trend that was significantly different from our operating plans which resulted in creating inventory risks.
So we took markdowns so we could liquidate that inventory sell it through and assure that we were on plan.
Now we've also considered that with the slower sales environment in the fourth quarter that we might have a higher markdown level as well and we've considered that in the guidance that we've given you.
Good.
Okay.
Obviously the questions are going this way but I think people are having a little hard time piecing together all the data points we're picking up across the space right now.
Sure.
Some of the other names we've talked that I think Chuck mentioned have been a little bit slower build was the sales accelerated a little bit more quickly here for you.
We're trying to figure out what happened.
As we think ahead if we look at the range of comps you gave for the fourth quarter what is your instinct on what would accelerate in your business to get to the high end of that comp range in the fourth quarter? Well Michael again it goes back to  I think both Jamie and Blake mentioned that it appears that there has been a slowdown in overall demand from the customer who was purchasing what we sell.
And what would cause us to get back to the higher end is that customer reigniting their demand.
And I don't think it's any more than that.
There's probably a multitude of data points out there that are driving some of this.
But in the end we can only do what we can do from our perspective and we believe we've done it.
Stores</span></strong> And Michael this is Jamie.
I think that's right.
I would just add that we've taken the appropriate adjustments to our plans but our inventory is current and we feel really good about our plans for the fourth quarter in terms of our merchandise assortment our marketing plans.
We're going into fourth quarter all guns blazing.
Sure.
Stores</span></strong> And we're clearly a little more conservative in our planning given recent sales trends.
We feel good about our plan to hit those numbers.
But if trends change then we'll feel even better about that.
But we're optimistic that our customers will respond to what we're going to put forth over the next couple of months.
If I could just ask Mike one last one.
It's been a long journey for you walking us back to a point where like some very heavy investing over the past few years will lead to the earnings growth rate starting to improve closer to the revenue growth rate next year.
I mean if we are in a new normal for the level of sales across the industry not for you guys or anyone in particular.
But if we are in a new normal I mean how would you think about lower top-line opportunity versus the investments? We know you guys want to make for the long term but you've also said that your earnings growth rate will go up next year.
Is it something where if the sales rate is going to be slower you guys would start to try and look at ways to try to bring the cost down a little bit to try and stick to that guidance for 2016? Thank you.
The answer is yes.
Which part? The answer...
I know I'm going to look at the transcript and it's going to be a long question.
That's good Michael.
We can have a little back and forth here.
No no.
The answer is yes that we would look to reduce the acceleration of our investment/cost as related to those initiatives.
Thank you very much.
Sure.
We'll now take one more question.
Our last question comes from Howard Tubin with Guggenheim Securities.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi.
Yes.
This is Paula (44:01) calling in for Howard.
Just talking about igniting demand and interest.
With regards to the Savvy department can you tell us if there are any upcoming rollouts with regard to Madewell or Topshop or anything in the upcoming holiday period that we should be excited about that will continue the positive momentum there? Stores</span></strong> Sure.
This is Jamie.
Yeah well it starts with a consistent flow of fresh new goods and that drives all of our business.
But particularly in the Savvy department our ability to always have something new to show the customer really drives our success there and we feel good about our plans over the next couple of months.
You mentioned Topshop we have Topshop in 70 odd stores.
We're increasing that to over 90 by the end of the year.
That's been a real positive business for us and our partnership with them is really strong.
We have Madewell in approximately 30 stores and that's been performing really well.
Another brand that we're happy with right now is Brandy Melville  thank you excuse me  in our Juniors department Brandy Melville's a brand that we've added to a number of stores and our customers have really responded.
So our ability to find ways of continuing to be relevant to particularly younger customers who are shopping with us maybe for the first time and we've acquired a lot of customers.
Our metrics around customer acquisition continue to be very strong which gives us a lot of confidence as we continue to execute these plans and look towards the future.
Great.
Thank you.
Again thank you for joining today's call.
A replay along with the slide presentation and prepared remarks will be available for one year on our website.
Thank you for your interest in Nordstrom.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Nordstrom Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
We will begin with prepared remarks followed by a question-and-answer session.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
At this time I'll turn the call over to Mr.
Blake Nordstrom.
Please go ahead.
I think I'd like to have Trina Schurman start if that's all right.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us.
Today's earnings call will last 45 minutes and will include 30 minutes for your questions.
Before we begin I want to mention that our speakers will be referring to slides which can be viewed by going to nordstrom.com in the Investor Relations section.
Today's discussion may include forward-looking statements so please refer to the slide showing our Safe Harbor language.
Participating in today's call are Blake Nordstrom Co-President; and Mike Koppel Chief Financial Officer who will discuss the company's fourth quarter and 2015 performance and the outlook for fiscal year 2016.
Joining during the Q&amp;A session will be Pete Nordstrom; and Erik Nordstrom Co-Presidents; and Jamie Nordstrom President of Stores.
With that I'll turn the call over to Blake.
Thank you and good afternoon everyone.
We're encouraged that even through this current retail environment we continue to gain market share.
We added roughly $1 billion to our top line delivering total sales growth of 8%.
For the fourth quarter we had a 1% comp increase as we anticipated which was consistent with our third quarter's increase of 0.9%.
As we look ahead to 2016 we have always considered 2015 to be a peak investment year.
That hasn't changed.
What has changed is the current environment that we are facing which requires us to pivot even more as we remain focused on improving profitability.
In response we are making adjustments to reduce expense and capital spending in 2016 and in the coming years.
For 2015 total sales in our full-price business inclusive of Canada and Trunk Club increased 5%.
In off-price inclusive of Rack stores and nordstromrack.com and HauteLook sales increased 14%.
From a merchandising perspective we're always pursuing newness in fashion to increase our relevance with customers.
For example we continued our success with brands like Topshop Madewell Brandy Melville and Charlotte Tilbury.
These brand partnerships have contributed to the strength of our contemporary department and attracted new customers to Nordstrom.
Additionally we had continued momentum in Beauty which has been among our top performing categories for the fourth straight year.
Going forward it is even more important for us to remain focused on the customer as our business continues to evolve.
We've made significant investments to enable customers to shop seamlessly across stores and online as well as to grow our business through new markets.
With over $3 billion invested in capital over the last five years we grew our top line by 50% which was nearly $5 billion.
We're also mindful of the importance for these investments to flow through to the bottom line.
While we're on track with our $20 billion sales ambition by 2020 our efforts to serve customers in multiple channels are having an impact to our business model.
In response to changes in our business and current conditions we've started to implement a number of opportunities to improve profitability.
From a CapEx perspective we reduced our plan by $300 million over the next five years.
From an earnings perspective our expenses have grown faster than sales to support our multichannel growth.
We are taking action to moderate our expense growth over the next several years.
Specific to 2016 we have planned expense savings of $100 million relative to our plans a year ago.
This equates to a reduction of $50 million relative to 2015.
We are actively pursuing additional opportunities to improve profitability this year and in the years to come.
We view this as fluid and iterative process as we stay focused on the customer and proactively ensure resources are aligned with customer expectations.
I'll now turn it over to Mike who will provide more details on these changes with respect to our financial outlook.
Thanks Blake.
First I'd like to comment on our current results.
We finished the year with our results in line with our expectations.
Clearly this was a difficult period with industry sales declines and increased promotional activity resulting in compressed merchandise margins.
As stated last quarter we responded quickly and decisively to these trends with respect to inventory levels.
While we believe our inventory is current we continue to monitor trends and make the appropriate adjustments to assure we remain price competitive and have the best product available for our customers.
On the expense side overall operations were well-managed resulting in an improved SG&amp;A rate for the fourth quarter relative to our expectations.
Now I'd like to provide perspective on how we see our business evolving given current business conditions our investment cycle and commitment to delivering top quartile shareholder returns.
In evolving with our customers we made significant investments to enable customers to shop in multiple ways.
This has resulted in market share gains but also structural changes to our operating costs.
For example e-commerce now represents over 20% of our sales a notable increase from 8% five years ago.
This business model has a high variable cost structure driven by fulfillment and marketing costs in addition to ongoing technology investments.
With our increased investments to gain market share along with the changing business model expenses in recent years have grown faster than sales.
As Blake mentioned we are pursuing the following opportunities with focused efforts on increasing efficiency and lowering costs.
In technology we are planning productivity improvements by focusing on fewer more meaningful projects such as a scalable merchandising solution that supports seamless integration across multiple channels.
In addition we are accelerating our efforts to re-platform our architecture to streamline development while reducing costs.
In fulfillment we are assessing ways to improve efficiencies around delivering product to customers which is expected to generate lower shipping costs.
We are also refining our online assortments with a focus on unit profitability.
In marketing we are focusing on improving our effectiveness across all channels.
Consistent with our fulfillment efforts we are measuring enterprise profitability of our total marketing spend.
These and other initiatives are multi-year in nature.
While we have successfully gained market share we are also committed to growing profitability.
With our investments moderating we view 2016 as an inflection point of earnings growth improvement.
We are focused on reshaping our business model and continuing that effort over the next several years to achieve our previously stated goal of mid-teens return on invested capital.
As part of our regular communications we'll keep you posted on our progress.
Moving to our capital investments our five-year CapEx plan of $4 billion or 5% of sales represents a $300 million reduction in store investments relative to last year's plan.
In 2016 we expect CapEx to be roughly $900 million with one-third allocated to Canada and Manhattan.
Technology and fulfillment which represents another third is planned flat to last year a considerable reduction from a 35% annualized growth over the last five years.
Our investments in HauteLook Canada and Trunk Club are beginning to pay off with over $400 million added to our top line growth in 2015.
The dilutive impact of these growth initiatives has peaked in 2015 with expected EBIT improvement beginning in 2016.
In addition our loyalty program is an enabler of growth to help increase our engagement with customers and attract new customers.
With Rewards members representing 40% of our sales volume we look forward to expanding our program with a tender-neutral offer in the second quarter.
Finally I'd like to turn to our 2016 financial outlook.
Our plan for earnings per diluted share of $3.10 to $3.35 assumes total sales growth of 3.5% to 5.5% and comps of flat to a 2% increase.
Based on current trends we remain cautious and have considered the impact of a continued promotional environment.
In the first half of the year EPS is planned to decrease by roughly 30% due to the following: the impact of the sale of credit receivables; the impact of growth initiatives including our third fulfillment center which opened last August and new store preopening costs; and the shift of our Anniversary event which will span the second quarter and third quarters in 2016.
In terms of our Credit business while we expect an initial reduction in EBIT from our revenue-sharing program with TD we anticipate meaningful opportunities to increase earnings over time.
Excluding the impact of the Credit business we expect improvement in retail EBIT growth driven by the maturing of our growth investments and the operational improvements previously mentioned.
In closing we continue to believe that we have the right strategies in place to profitably grow our business and successfully serve our current and future customers the Nordstrom way.
With that I'll turn the call over to Trina.
Thank you Mike.
Before we get started with Q&amp;A we'd like to ask that you limit to one question.
If you have additional questions please return to the queue.
We will now move to the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you.
We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
Our first question is from Matthew Boss of JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good afternoon guys.
Hey Matt.
So on inventory any areas of concern versus your plan coming out of the quarter? And can you elaborate on some of the actions that you talked about to remain price competitive? Just really help us to think about gross margin in 2016 versus the 92 basis points of contraction we saw this year? Sure Matt.
This is Mike.
I'll take the first part of the question as it relates to where we are relative to plan.
We actually transitioned out of the fourth quarter under our original plan inventories.
And a matter of fact the change from plan to actual at the end was consistent with the drop in sales relative to plan.
So we felt like we would  responded inappropriately to keep those inventories in line.
Now clearly it still is a little tenuous out there and we're keeping a very close eye on it but the aging is in a good place and the levels relative to the investments we're making in our growth initiatives are in the right place as well.
In terms of pricing I'll let Pete take that.
Executive VP &amp; President-Merchandising</span></strong> Yes I guess what I'd say that for us the promotional and clearance activity drive some sales but not enough to make up for the reduced AUR so that's where we had a lot of compression and then also what it does to our margins.
So it's not a good situation for us.
I mean there may be other retailers that really benefit from a lot of promotional activity that drive sales in disproportionate ways.
So we spend a lot of time trying to be transparent and collaborating with vendors talking about our desire to have newness really be the component that drives our sales and not the promotional activity.
I think we work to identify vendors that operate cleaner businesses.
It's a difficult balancing act because you want to make sure that you're bringing things that customers want too.
I mean have things just uniquely or exclusive for exclusive's sake.
That doesn't work either.
There are some areas that help mitigate some of the pressure.
For example our own label product what we call Nordstrom Product Group it's a growing part of our business.
We had a really good year with Nordstrom Product Group and I think that's a way we control our own destiny a little bit more as we go forward.
And then I guess lastly what I would say is ultimately our ability to keep our inventories in line with the sales trends is going to be the biggest factor in terms of managing markdowns.
And while we've missed sales plans a little bit in the last couple of months we're in pretty decent shape and we're going to be disciplined this year about keeping those inventories down.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Oliver Chen of Cowen and Company.
Please go ahead Hi.
Thank you.
I had a question about your earlier comment regarding profitability and fluidity.
I was just curious about what you meant in terms of contextualizing what's your meaning there? And if that's a little bit different from prior thoughts on managing that balance? And on the promotional front could you just inform us by banner in terms of merchandise margin prospects as you think about Rack versus full-line versus online and how the merchandise margins may look this year? You've kind of been a leader in trying to rationalize the promotional environment.
So are there any distinctions we should know about on a year-over-year basis in terms of the sales that you'll be running versus last year? Thank you.
Okay Oliver first this is Mike.
I just want to clarify your question on profitability versus fluidity.
Were you referring to inventory? Just the context of earlier comments on that and I think it's a bigger picture question in terms of how the customer could be changing.
But it's related to inventory as well potentially.
Okay.
Well I think maybe Pete could talk a little bit about the promotional what we're doing from a promotional standpoint then.
Executive VP &amp; President-Merchandising</span></strong> Yes I think the rhythm of the business is the same in that there's a cycle to regular price selling that we pretty much are in lockstep with the industry based on those rhythm.
When business is bad it accelerates that clearance part of it but the part that we're talking about is promotional activity where a retailer will take everything that they have to offer something that's a week old in the inventory and something that's eight weeks old in the inventory and mark everything down.
And that's what really erodes the margins.
For us we don't generate any of those events ourselves but we have to be competitive for price.
So if it's a price that's available for the customer and for all customers to maintain integrity and trust and confidence of our customers we're going to match that price.
So that's what puts the pressure on us in terms of our promotional activity.
We don't have any more promotional activity in terms of clearance days or events no more plan than ever actually I think we're probably tightening that up even a little bit from this last year.
So I'm not sure if that answered your question but philosophically not much has changed in terms of what we've been doing for the last several years.
Yes that helps.
I think it has to do with the dynamicism in terms of the competitive landscape and matching.
And were there any clues in terms of the merch margins going forward by banner? Did you feel like certain banners had more opportunities for improvement than others? Executive VP &amp; President-Merchandising</span></strong> Yes it definitely is a matching thing to your point certain banners how that changes.
You're talking relative to the Rack business versus the full-price business? Yes yes.
Executive VP &amp; President-Merchandising</span></strong> I don't think there's anything fundamentally different than what we've been dealing with really for years.
We've been able to improve our margins mostly through increasing turn leveraging inventory across multiple channels just being as efficient as we can that again ultimately over the long haul our ability to keep inventories in line is what's going to make the biggest impact on margin.
Oliver we have historically and really up until the more recent softness in the customer cycle have always had high and increasing regular price business.
And when you go through these soft cycles when the industry has too much inventory and there's competitive pricing that's where we're feeling the biggest pinch and so keep being very rigorous about controlling those inventories and about ensuring that we come out of this as we have come out of this before in a good place we'll assure that future profits will be better.
Thank you very much.
Best regards.
Sure.
Thanks.
Executive VP &amp; President-Merchandising</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Neely Tamminga of Piper Jaffray.
Please go ahead Good afternoon.
So on the current trends commentary; this is for Mike and Pete.
Could you give us a little bit more as it relates to that? I mean I guess what we're seeing in stores seems to be a paucity of newness particularly in designer and resort.
So is there a product execution error do you think going on a little bit in terms of just lacking some of that newness not having quite that risk going up the risk curve? Or is there something else you think related to the consumer related to that Rack versus full-line with any sort of insights you have between those two banners so far this year would be helpful.
Thanks.
Executive VP &amp; President-Merchandising</span></strong> Yes I'm not sure I exactly understand the question.
Can you just restate that for me because I didn't catch the beginning of what you were asking there? So really about current trends is it ultimately  is it really consumer led or is it about product missed opportunities? From our own store checks so we feel like you're lacking maybe a little bit in designer as well as in resort it just feels like it was a little bit weaker this year versus last year.
And I guess what we're trying to figure out is is this something that can pick up as product newness actually evolves at full-line or is there a consumer issue? And could you comment a little bit more on that issue related to Rack versus full-line type trends? Thanks.
Executive VP &amp; President-Merchandising</span></strong> Well the product issue is and actually we were just discussing that as we were flying back from New York Fashion Week today.
It's one of the nice things about our industry.
There's always this internal optimism about new things coming out there and people excited to get it in front of customers.
And there's evidence all through our business of pockets where business is really good because there's new things that have come in and done well.
I mean your comment about designer being off that's actually not true for us.
I mean our designer shoe and handbag business has been pretty good even through some fairly challenging times.
Apparel has had a little bit of pressure but it's just there's  I think there's a lot of things for us to be excited about and that translates I think to excitement for customers.
So I think that's an excuse you won't find us using.
It's a continuous matter of us trying to keep the focus on new product flowing in here.
It is going to ebb and flow a little bit but as long as we can keep our inventories in line I don't think it's going to be a big problem.
The Rack on the other hand they benefit in a lot of ways from some tough business out there because it means there's an excess of potentially really good product that we could get at great prices and because we've got these great relationships with vendors.
We can pass the savings along to customers.
So I think that the difficult part is when you take  when retailers or vendors take a price promotion on everything that they sell they lessen the desirability of a product because why pay full price for it.
And I think that's kind of the insidious part of what happens here and maybe it doesn't lead to good long-term decisions for a health of a brand or even a trend.
So that's something that we can't entirely control but obviously we talk to the vendors a lot about and I think one of the advantages that Nordstrom has people recognize out there vendors recognize out there that we do run a good full-price business.
It does motivate our customers and I think ultimately they like doing business with us because of that.
Thank you.
Thank you Neely.
Thank you.
The next question is from Lorraine Hutchinson of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good afternoon.
I was just hoping to...
Hi Lorraine.
Hi.
I was just hoping to get a little more information on the cost cuts.
I believe you said $50 million incremental for 2016.
What were you able to do so quickly? And then where do you see the opportunity for maybe the rest of this year but also for 2017 and 2018 in terms of trimming operating expenses? Sure Lorraine yes.
This is Mike.
In terms of that I think that winds up very well to the three areas that we discussed in the overall approach to the changes in our business model and that's in the areas of technology supply chain and marketing.
And I'm not going to get into a lot of detail there but suffice it to say over the last several years we've clearly been investing aggressively to grow our business.
We've grown our business successfully.
It's a new channel that is being built out that is still in the relatively early stages of its process and I think we've reached an inflection point where after growing it to the level we have that we're spending a little bit more time focused on then how to turn a lot of that growth into some more profit.
And I would say that that is the common theme that you're going to hear from us as we talk about reductions without getting into anything overly specific.
But clearly we're seeing a what has been a very noticeable change in our business model.
I think one of our slides indicated by the end of this decade that we're going to have a large proportion of our business about 30% being done online.
That's all the way from 5% that it was back in 2005 and that is a model that behaves enormously different than the mall-based model.
And so we have a lot to learn about that and we have to keep our lens on as it relates to how the customer sees us and how the customer wants to be served but at the same time we have to do it effectively.
And so that would be the theme and that will be the theme that we'll be sharing with you as we go forward.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Joan Payson of Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good afternoon everyone.
Could you talk a little bit about the Nordstrom Rack stores? Comps have been negative now through most of the year.
Maybe talk a little bit about what you think that reflects whether it's online cannibalization or competitive pressures and does it create any concern around the target for 300 stores longer-term? Sure.
Blake you want to take that please? Sure.
Joan this is Blake.
The Rack brick-and-mortar part of the comp improved as the quarter  the fourth quarter went on and the year went on but no question the first half  or the first three quarters of the year they were obviously running below our plans.
And we shared with you both the full-price and off-price multi-channel numbers and that's something we've been talking about at least from a full-price point of view for a couple of years because most importantly that's how the customer views the business and that's how the customer shops.
So we're trying to be clear about what that store business is and what the online off-price business is as well but we really look at it as an off-price multi-channel business.
And so for the year in the multi-channel I mentioned that was up 14%.
From a comp point of view that's 4.3% for the quarter.
Multi-channel off-price was up 12% and comp was up 3.6%.
So when we look at it in that regard we're definitely gaining market share from our competitors.
The new Rack growth which was the second part of your question continues to be highly productive stores with terrific returns for our shareholders' investment and so we feel good about at this juncture that 300 store commitment roughly that we've talked about by the year 2020.
Those lead times are short so we can react to that quickly.
We have 24 stores I believe slated to open in 2016 and again we feel good about the off-price part of our business and the full-price part of it and so we think there's a good balance between the full-price and off-price and we're continuing with that Rack growth.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Ed Yruma of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good afternoon and thanks for taking my question.
Sure Ed.
Inc.</span></strong> The decision to moderate the increases in tech spending do you think that it will over time reduce the level of growth in the online business or are you able to kind of drive in your opinion at this stage similar growth by making more targeted investments? And I guess the follow-up to that is how would you kind of ascertain the return on some of these stepped-up investments over the past couple of years? Thanks.
Sure.
Ed this is Mike.
In terms of moderate the investment I would just give you a little context that over the last five years that investment pool has grown at an average of 35% a year and it's up to about $260 million $270 million in terms of capital investment.
So we've made a really really big commitment there.
And I think part of what we've learned along that journey is that we could likely be more productive with that capital.
And we highlighted a couple things that we believe long-term are going to generate a lot of value.
One is having a scalable inventory management tool that can support us well past $20 billion and can support multi-channel.
And the second is to re-architect how we think about our technology so as we want to add new features and new applications we can do it very efficiently and cost-effectively.
And we think over the long run that's going to have big payback.
In terms of the returns of the past we've had some projects that have delivered some great returns and some that haven't.
That by the way is part of the business.
It's a test and learn and iterate business.
But that being said as I think over the last several years we've learned that we can likely do it better.
And at this point we don't feel that the moderation in investment is going to limit our growth in that channel.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Thanks so much.
Thanks Ed.
Thank you.
The next question is from Kimberly Greenberger of Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thank you so much.
I wanted to ask about inventory.
Mike I think you indicated that the 12% increase in inventory at the end of the quarter was below your original plan.
I'm wondering is there an opportunity to further reduce the inventory growth in 2016? I think you've guided to sales growth of 3.5% to 5.5% and is there any possibility you might be able to get the inventory growth down into the range of the sales growth? Thanks.
Well the answer is yes.
We think we can continue to improve our inventory turns and make our inventory more efficient.
At this point getting it all the way down to the sales growth may be not practical because we still have a number of forward-looking investments that we need to make.
We have store openings we still have a pretty rapidly growing e-commerce business.
And so you have to assure that you've got the right inventory levels to support that future growth.
But that said we do believe there's opportunities to be more efficient.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Dorothy Lakner with Topeka Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good afternoon everyone.
Just going back to the idea of newness in the stores it seems like you have been bringing in a lot of new brands particularly on the contemporary side and continue to do that.
So I just wondered if you push that a little bit more in order to keep that uniqueness in the stores.
Is that a way of getting around the overall promotional environment on bigger brands? And then just if you could talk a little bit about the new national marketing campaign that you've just started also as a way of maybe driving traffic into the stores.
Executive VP &amp; President-Merchandising</span></strong> Yes this is Pete.
You highlighted the balancing act that we need to try to figure out.
And you can bring new brands in that's great.
That has its own risk.
And brands don't grow to be really huge businesses overnight.
It takes a bit of time to get it there.
So we have some fairly big brands that have had some pretty sizable decreases over the last year.
I mean the good news is we've got some new brands coming up that we think can fill that void.
I think one of the messages we were able to send to market this last week is we have open to buy even though business has been pretty difficult because we're looking to replace some of these brands that are a little more troubled by some of that promotional activity.
Their sales aren't as good.
So good news is I think we attract a lot of people into doing business with you.
Maybe the best example of that is you look at some brands that we have that other people don't so Madewell for example.
J.Crew brand it's not available at other retailers.
It's something they'd sell themselves but they sell to us because they like the way we do business they like our customer and it's been really effective.
And you get insulated from some of these issues because it's not available at a lot of the stores that are a little more promotional in nature.
Topshop's been a version of that.
Brandy Melville's a brand that's done really well for us.
So there's good examples out there.
And some of the stuff you talk about some of the more leading-edge things around that contemporary business we're proud of our team and their ability to kind of keep forging ahead.
Though ultimately our ability to be successful going forward is not by repeating and refining last year but to try to find new things out there to buy new things to do that will kind of stimulate customers' interest.
And that's really our inspiration and our process going forward this year.
And then you asked about the marketing campaign and that was a little bit of a new deal that a new campaign for spring that Olivia Kim helped create for us and it's interesting.
It's cool.
I think probably the best thing about it is it reflects an optimism and kind of a cheerfulness which really should be what our business is about particularly as you come into spring.
When there's a lot of stuff going on out there that maybe isn't super cheerful and bright but our job is to make shopping fun for customers and I think that's what that campaign really reflects.
And so far at least the anecdotal evidence is customers really like that.
Great.
Thank you.
Executive VP &amp; President-Merchandising</span></strong> Thanks.
Thanks Dorothy.
Thank you.
The next question is from Jeff Stein of Northcoast Research.
Please go ahead Thanks guys.
Two quick questions.
One for Mike on the share buyback.
Are you still looking for the buyback in 2016 to be neutral to earnings versus the credit card transaction? And second question can you help us out at all in terms of the value of the sales shift of the semiannual sale between Q2 and Q3 and why you're moving it? Thank you.
Sure.
Yes Jeff in terms of the buyback the volume of buyback that we completed in the fourth quarter approximately will have the impact next year of being neutral to the loss of the credit card revenue on an EPS basis.
So that's done.
That's complete.
In terms of the sales shift I don't have  do we have that number? When we...
Executive VP &amp; President-Merchandising</span></strong> The calendar shift? Yes.
When we shift.
Yes.
Do we know the comp impact? Yes it's about 200 basis points to 300 basis points between quarters.
Okay.
Thank you.
I'm sorry? Executive VP &amp; President-Merchandising</span></strong> I would just add the Anniversary shift.
Number one Anniversary really want to distinguish it from our other events.
It's not  we used to do a (34:10) half-yearly sale.
It's not a clearance sale.
Anniversary is our biggest event.
It's brand-new product that we bring in at savings and then market back up afterwards.
And being our biggest event the timing is really important.
With the way that calendar works about every five years to seven years we need to bump it back as it starts to get too close to the Fourth of July holiday and that's the case this year.
Okay.
So I just want to make sure I understand.
The earnings-per-share guidance you're giving of $3.10 to $3.35 assumes that credit and the share buyback offset each other.
That's correct.
Okay.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Thank you.
The next question is from Stephen Grambling of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good afternoon.
Hi Steve.
As a follow-up to some of the questions on the Rack can you just talk a little bit more about the relationship between the full-line assortment and the Rack assortment more recently and whether that's changed? Perhaps more specifically with the amount of full-line products in the Rack elevated and maybe even limit the open to buy there and are there any changes that you're thinking about to manage the two channels going forward? Blake do you want to take that? Sure.
With the growth of the new store account though we've got some blips with full in-store transfer it hasn't had any material impact at all within the Rack itself or individual store in terms of percent of goods from the full-line store or what we get in terms of close-outs from the vendors.
So no change there at all.
Great.
Thanks.
That's it for me.
Thanks Steve.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Paul Lejuez of Citi.
Please go ahead.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thanks.
It's Tracy Kogan filling in for Paul.
I was wondering if you guys are seeing some deterioration in the Credit portfolio and maybe you could tell us what's behind the guidance of $70 million to $80 million of Credit EBIT you're expecting next year.
It seems like even accounting for you guys only receiving about 50% of the former EBIT that's a little low based on the run rate of about $200 million from last year.
Thanks.
Sure.
Yes Tracy this is Mike.
In terms of the health of the Credit portfolio it continues to be very strong.
We're not seeing any deterioration in terms of the quality of the portfolio the timeliness of payments et cetera.
You're very astute to pick up that number in the guidance because in fact we have said that the Credit EBIT would be roughly half of what it was.
The difference is there is some purchase accounting-related adjustments that are in that number that primarily will only impact 2016.
I believe it was in the range of $15 million to $17 million but the actual credit card revenue that we would earn is right in line with what we had shared with you earlier.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
So it's some one-time charges bringing that number down for next year? That's correct.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Great.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Paul Trussell of Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good afternoon.
Mike could you give a bit more color on EBIT guidance for 2016? You mentioned in the release that ex impairment charges we should look for retail EBIT I think up or down 3%? And from your earlier comments it sounds like gross margins will continue to be pressured while with some of your SG&amp;A savings that actually might be closer to flattish on a rate basis.
Just want to see if that is directionally right.
And then my follow-up still on EBIT is on the slide in your presentation that calls out the $110 million EBIT impact from strategic initiatives next year.
If you can just break that out for us between Canada and Trunk Club and give us an update on how we expect those segments to ramp over time.
Thanks.
Sure.
Yes Paul in terms of how you've framed the EBIT next year I think that's directionally accurate.
We didn't give any specific guidance on SG&amp;A but your comments are relatively close.
In terms of the strategic investments the $110 million that's Canada Trunk Club and HauteLook.
That's the impact that those investments have had a combination of operating profits or losses plus any purchase accounting adjustments.
That's an improvement in 2016 from 2015 and we expect that continue to improve fairly measurably over the next couple of years.
We haven't specifically called it out.
We haven't broken them down individually for purposes of this but directionally we expect to see improvement and I think that aligns with my earlier comment that part of the improvement we are seeing is the maturing of some of these investments as they start to scale up and approach breakeven and then start to make some money.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Michael Binetti of UBS.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Good afternoon.
Hi Michael.
I'm trying to understand the significant inflection and the cadence of the EPS growth here front half back half at high level despite the first half being down 30%.
I mean the second half it seems like EBITDA has to grow 15% to 20%.
I'm having trouble figuring out how to get there on the margin guidance.
Maybe you could talk us through a little bit just at high-level how to think about comps to model first half versus second half on the gross margin that you guys see first half second half? And Mike did I interpret your comments earlier thinking that SG&amp;A is going to be fairly similar through the year? Well let me just take it on at a high level Michael.
The first thing which is pretty significant is the impact of the credit card sale.
Recall last year we sold the business in October which means we were fully earning 100% of our credit card earnings through the first half of the year.
Going into 2016 through the first half of the year we will be on the revenue sharing program so that's having an impact.
The second thing is and it's been a phenomenon over the last couple of years is with the amount of stores that we've been opening we have two new stores opening in Canada we have a number of Rack stores opening we have a fair amount of preopening that sits in the spring that we don't get a lot of sales benefit from and that it kicks into the back half of the year and so that's the other element.
And then the third element we called out was the shift in the Anniversary sales.
So those are the big three.
You know in terms of specific margin guidance I'm not going to get into that level of detail here on the call right now but I think if you look at those three large directional elements hopefully that will help you.
Is there any way you'd be willing to bless the (41:34) first half you guys are baking in negative same-store sales and then the second half is when we see that improvement.
If as an assumption just what we're seeing around the industry and your comments on the run rate today? As I said we're not giving any specific guidance and I appreciate your persistence.
Well I had to try.
All right.
Thanks guys.
All right.
Thanks Michael.
Thank you.
The next question is from Bob Drbul of Nomura.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good evening.
I just have one question.
On the expense opportunities in 2016 you talk about trying to improve efficiencies around fulfillment.
Can you just elaborate on some of the initiatives that you are undertaking within lower shipping cost and fulfillment cost? Yes Bob I would say again a lot of these go back to how we need to continue to view the customer experience not just by channel but across the enterprise and understanding how we can serve the customer on an enterprise level.
And there's a number of things we can do.
Currently today we fulfill out of multiple locations and are there opportunities for us to get more efficient at that? That creates not only additional labor cost but it creates additional shipping cost because you're shipping multiple items per an order.
We're also looking at how spread out we want our assortment to be because the more lower-price items we have in it the less unit profitability we gain.
And so we're looking at a number of different things but I think it all goes back to the rapid acceleration of the business and us continuing to feed that business and gain market share and now we're learning an awful lot about how that business is behaving and how we can make it more productive.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks Mike.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Richard Jaffe of Stifel.
Please go ahead.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks very much guys and I guess two quick questions.
You mentioned private label or Nordstrom's own brand.
Can you comment on the percent of total sales that represents today and how much bigger it could be? And then given the success of Beauty do you have any initiatives in the Beauty category to take advantage of that great strength? Executive VP &amp; President-Merchandising</span></strong> Yes this is Pete.
Traditionally we've run our Nordstrom Product Group to our own label to a fairly consistent percentage.
As we've done more designer business in the last oh gosh 15 years or so it came down a little bit because that's the place where we just don't participate and also with Beauty as you talk about if those two areas are big growth vehicles for us.
It's some place we don't participate with our own label product.
But we do for example which we haven't talked about yet but the young customer segment of our business what we call women's apparel which has a large component of our own label in it and that's been growing well.
It's a little over 10% of our business.
It's not going to change dramatically from that.
But I mean can we do some more? Yes we can do some more and we've pretty much been doing it not as an entitlement program where NPGs can be a certain percentage of the business but it has to grow because organically it belongs and customers have responded well to it.
So the good news is customers have responded well to it.
We've got some good momentum in a lot of places.
Like the kids brand like Tucker + Tate with just in three years I think it is.
We're probably doing $50 million in there so that is a big business for us.
There's a lot of confidence and a lot of great results there to work towards.
So yes we think we can grow it in modest ways in the next few years.
Related to Beauty that's a really interesting business and the thing that's probably best about it is where most customers enter Nordstrom the most amount of trips come through the Beauty business.
It tends to attract newer younger customers as well and so when that business is healthy it really helps the acquisition part of what we're doing.
It helps the traffic in the stores.
So I think what we continue to focus on there is making sure that we keep moving forward.
And because we've been pretty successful in there we do attract a lot of interesting opportunities.
And I think one of the things that's particularly good about that business is the diversity where the success is coming from because it's coming really at all different price points.
The designer and luxury part of that business is really strong.
A lot of the new things we've introduced are strong in different categories.
We've got a good team there.
So I think you'll just see us continue to try to follow the customers' interest there and make sure that we're best in class in that classification.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> And if I could just ask one more.
If you could comment on the environment obviously the environment is tough particularly for apparel retailers and wondering what your take on it is.
What might be the cause of this? Executive VP &amp; President-Merchandising</span></strong> Gosh.
That's a great question.
I don't know.
Some of the stuff is somewhat cyclical.
But if we get into a position of trying to rationalize it based on external or macro factors that we can't control then that's not a very good place for us to be.
So what we really try to focus on are the things that we can control and that's delivering great service for customers having a great relevant experience for them both online and in stores seamless integration new products for them to buy the excitement of what retailing can provide And we talk about in terms of marketing the hopefulness and the cheerfulness of what this is about.
And I think if we can keep that front and center then we can continue to earn customers' business and gain market share.
So that's the way we're looking at it.
And we'll take one more question.
Thank you.
Our final question comes from Omar Saad of Evercore ISI.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thanks.
Good afternoon.
One quick follow-up on the Nordstrom Rack business.
If you look at the different store age groups have you been able to glean anything from how the stores mature? They open really big at first and then kind of steady comps from there or is there a pattern you can see across the Rack specifically and that store network? The maturation curve if you will.
So Omar this is Blake.
And we do have those facts and we've been doing this for a while and it's been running pretty consistent in terms of our plans or projections for the first year and what it does then in year two year three year four and what that maturity curve is.
And so yes that's helpful for us as we run the business and we haven't seen a lot of change there in that regard.
Is that to say they open at a pretty high level of productivity? Yes.
They come right out of the gate at a high productivity and they start contributing very quickly.
That's helpful.
Thanks guys.
Thanks Omar.
Again thank you for joining today's call.
A replay along with the slide presentation and prepared remarks will be available for one year on our website.
Thank you for your interest in Nordstrom.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.