Good day everyone.
Welcome to KB Home's 2011 First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference call is being recorded and webcast on KB Home's website at kbhome.com.
The recording will be available via telephone replay until midnight on April 12 2011 by calling (719) 457-0820 or (888) 203-1112 and using the replay pass code of 6020115.
A replay will also be available through KB Home's website for 30 days.
KB Home's discussion today may include certain predictions and other forward-looking statements that reflect management's current expectations or forecasts of market and economic conditions and of the company's business activities prospects strategies and financial and operational results.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance and due to a number of risks uncertainties and other factors outside of its control KB Home's actual results could be materially different from those expressed in or implied by the forward-looking statements.
Many of these risk factors are identified in KB Home's filings with the SEC which the company urges you to read with care.
The discussion today may also include references to non-GAAP financial measures as defined in Regulation G.
The reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and other Regulation G required information as provided in the company's earnings release which is posted on the Investor Relations page of the company's website under Recent Releases and through the financial information news releases link on the right-hand side of the page.
I'll now turn the conference call over to Mr.
Jeff Mezger.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you James.
I'd like to thank everyone for joining us today for a review of our results for the first quarter of 2011.
With me this morning are Jeff Kaminski our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Bill Hollinger our Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer.
I will begin this morning with some comments on our results for the first quarter which were obviously a disappointment for us.
I'll also provide some color on market trends while Jeff Kaminski will discuss the details of our financial results.
After a few closing comments we will then open it up for your questions.
As we observed during our year end call in early January our favorable financial results for the fourth quarter of 2010 reflected a number of factors that worked in our favor.
We reported relatively high deliveries in revenue our highest gross margins of the year reduced SG&amp;A expenses and solid leverage on both gross margin and SG&amp;A that resulted in a pretax profit.
In contrast our results for the first quarter of 2011 reflect the combined impact of factors that worked against us.
Entering the year we guided that our low level of backlog would result in lower revenues and a loss for the first quarter.
While we did have an above average conversion rate of backlog to deliveries in the quarter the drop in our revenue dramatically impacted both margin and our SG&amp;A ratio even though our SG&amp;A expenses were down during the quarter.
At the same time we recognized substantial charges related to the South Edge joint venture prompted by the court decision that we reported in February.
Taken together these negative factors blur much of the underlying progress we have made over the past few years in repositioning our company.
As the year unfolds we plan to grow our revenue in part as a result of opening more communities and believe that this volume leverage will cause our financial metrics to settle back into balance by the second half of the year.
Due to the financial impact of the events in the quarter we do not anticipate a net profit for 2011.
However we maintain that our operating strategy has us positioned to achieve profitability at some point later in 2011.
From a macroeconomic perspective the economy is continuing to improve.
We are pleased by the encouraging trends in many sectors.
Even so this recovery has yet to include significant job growth and has not spilled over into housing.
The recently reported Case-Shiller Home Price Index and consumer confidence data further underscore the headwinds that housing markets continue to face.
These headwinds will not go away and a sustained broad-based housing recovery will not occur until we start to experience material job creation and higher consumer confidence levels.
Having said that we are seeing evidence of stability in many of the more desirable submarkets those located close to employment centers that feature supply and demand that is in balance and offer affordability levels that are extremely compelling relative to historical norms.
While the recently reported new home and resale data reinforces that a difficult housing environment continues nationally the positive submarket trends we're seeing reinforce that housing is a very local business.
We've been capitalizing on these trends by focusing our investment and community development in these high preference submarkets.
As the stabilization process gains traction over time we expect to see the housing recovery gradually spread to adjacent submarkets within each metro area and our investment and revenue growth strategy will broaden as the recovery evolves.
In the meantime we will remain selective in our investments continue to open new communities work to increase sales and grow our backlog and take additional steps to align our overhead levels with projected revenue.
Turning now to our results.
We reported an operating loss for the quarter of $48 million versus $36 million for the first quarter of last year.
Excluding the South Edge loan guarantee loss in 2011 and inventory related charges in both years we were essentially flat year-over-year despite a 28% reduction in deliveries.
Our pretax results for the first quarter included a large financial impact from charges we booked related to the South Edge joint venture.
While we were surprised and disappointed with the court's ruling in February we are endeavoring the work together with the banks and other builders in the South Edge joint venture in an effort to resolve the current situation and to gain ownership of the rest of this well-located master planned community.
The overall Las Vegas housing market continues to have its challenges.
However our Las Vegas division is actually performing quite well with some of the highest sales rate per community in the company.
Over time the land-constrained Las Vegas market will recover and thrive once again and we believe that our Inspirada community including the land that we expect to get out of the South Edge bankruptcy has tremendous value to our business.
Jeff Kaminski will provide further detail regarding the South Edge financial impact.
On the sales front we normally limit our comments to activity within the quarter.
However given the unusual tax credit influence of last year and investor interest in realtime data relative to the current selling season we have elected to also share our sales and traffic activity for the month of March.
Today's consumers remain very cautious whether they have concerns about home prices falling further their job status their ability to qualify for a loan or general confidence in the economy.
The timeline to make the purchase decision has extended significantly with a typical buyer visiting a community numerous times before signing a purchase contract.
As we reported net orders in the quarter were down 32% year-over-year to 1 302.
While we are not pleased with this result there were encouraging trends that developed as the quarter played out.
In all three months of our first quarter traffic levels per community continued to be higher than the prior year similar to our experiences in the fourth quarter.
On the sales side our net orders improved sequentially each month from 276 homes in December to 400 in January and 626 in February.
It was in February of last year that the tax credits started to gain traction with the consumer and as a result we had a 36% shortfall for the month versus the prior year even with the sequential increase over January.
For March a month in which we also experienced a positive impact from the tax credit last year we closed the gap in year-over-year net orders significantly falling short by less than 6% with 763 reported net sales for the month.
We generated sequential gains in net sales each week during March and we anticipate sustaining solid sales results as we open up additional communities throughout the second quarter.
We will have a negative year-over-year comp in April which was the strongest sales month of 2010 and was also the last month of the tax credit.
As you may recall we reported that May sales results last year post-tax credit were extremely weak and that our third and fourth quarter results did not materially improve from there.
As a result post-April this year we expect to sustain positive year-over-year monthly sales comps for the balance of the year which should be strong enough to lead to a favorable year-over-year comparison in 2011.
This should also set us up with a larger backlog and momentum as we enter 2012.
Part of the improvement in March is tied to the performance of our new community openings in the first quarter and highlights that there are pockets of opportunity in every market.
Our new communities that have opened are for the most part exceeding our pro forma projections.
In the select submarkets where these grand openings are occurring we are experiencing a solid sales pace that relies on traditional demand driven by high affordability desirable locations and the right product offerings.
Our focus remains on competing profitably with resales our largest and fiercest competitor.
While we cannot always compete with resales on price we can absolutely compete through offering floor plans that meet the needs of today's homebuyer a broad choice of features and options in our studios with our Built to Order approach quality locations and most importantly we can compete favorably against resales' total cost of home ownership.
A great example of our product's lower total cost of home ownership as demonstrated in the marketplace is our new KB Home Energy Performance Guide or EPG.
As our sustainability initiatives have evolved we now have the capability via third-party consultants to calculate and communicate to the consumer a projection of what their approximate utility costs should be in every community company-wide.
The EPG marks the first time we have been able to truly quantify and project the financial benefit of the energy efficiency of a KB Home to the consumer and the advantage versus resales is significant.
The EPG was strategically launched in mid-February just in time for the spring selling season with a two-day major media tour that generated almost 200 million media impressions.
As a result of this incredible media buzz the EPG program is not only bringing more traffic to our communities homebuyers are now choosing KB Home specifically because of the EPG projected savings and peace of mind that it brings as they plan their monthly home ownership costs.
It is not uncommon to hear reports from our customers that the savings versus resale exceeds $100 per month.
In today's economy where every dollar is important these savings are meaningful to our buyer.
On our last earnings call we told you about the KB Home GreenHouse an idea home created with Martha Stewart our first net zero energy concept home in Orlando that also featured state-of-the-art water and energy-saving technologies.
The home is registered with the Department of Energy having the capability of actually selling power back to the grid.
More than 2 000 people toured the home during the event which also helped us to promote our nearby communities.
We received such a positive response that we are now planning to build a net zero energy concept home within a model park in every division in 2011.
Not only is it a terrific traffic generator for our communities it's a great way to showcase KB Home's energy programs and available energy options for the consumer.
A third innovative energy program is our recent announcement that for the first time KB Home will be offering solar power systems as standard in 10 new home communities across Southern California.
We are leveraging our strategic partnerships and supply chain in order to provide this valuable feature on our homes while keeping them priced affordably and also presenting the consumer the opportunity for a potential federal tax credit.
This is just another example of how we are setting KB Home apart in a competitive marketplace.
If this program is positively received by the consumers we have the capability to quickly expand it to other markets outside of Southern California.
Before I turn the call over to Jeff I want to provide an update on our KBA Mortgage joint venture.
During the quarter we were informally advised by Bank of America that they want to strategically move away from operating under joint venture structures in their business.
Recognizing that we still have over nine years remaining on our joint venture contract we are working with them to see if we can restructure our relationship in a manner that is beneficial to both parties.
As we explore new options our business will continue to operate as usual.
We are working toward a seamless transition for our business and our customers both today and as we move to a new relationship.
Now I will turn the call over to Jeff Kaminski.
Jeff? Thank you.
Jeff mentioned in his remarks that there are many factors that came together during the quarter to adversely impact our financial results.
However beneath the surface there is underlying improvement and momentum in our business and many of our financial metrics reflect this dynamic as well.
Our pretax loss in the first quarter of 2011 was $114.1 million compared to $54.5 million in the prior year.
The current year quarter included $77 million of charges relating to the South Edge joint venture and $1.8 million of inventory-related charges.
Our pretax loss in the first quarter of 2010 included $13 million of inventory-related charges.
Excluding the South Edge impact as well as the inventory-related charges from both periods we actually narrowed our pretax loss to $35.8 million a 13% improvement versus 2010.
We delivered 949 homes in the first quarter representing a backlog conversion rate of 71%.
Those homes had an average selling price of approximately $206 000 generating $195.2 million in housing revenues.
This compared to 1 326 deliveries in the year ago quarter and an average selling price of approximately $198 000.
Housing gross margin excluding impairments was 13.4% in the first quarter of 2011 versus 18.8% in the prior year and 19.7% in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Our lower overall volume of deliveries in the quarter had a significant impact on this number accounting for 410 basis points of the sequential decrease from the fourth quarter to the first quarter.
As compared to Q4 2010 we delivered roughly 1/2 the number of homes in the first quarter and at the same time maintained field infrastructure necessary to support new community openings and revenue expansion later in the year.
This obviously had a large negative impact on margins in the current quarter.
Other factors included the closeout of certain top-performing communities in Q4 some pricing pressure in select markets and to a lesser extent a shift in regional and product mix.
Our selling general and administrative expenses in the first quarter were $49.6 million versus $72.2 million in the same quarter the prior year and $55.7 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Reduced revenue levels obviously had a major impact on our SG&amp;A percentage and while this is typical of our first quarter it did show an improvement versus the prior year as implemented cost-reduction initiatives benefited this year and the first quarter of 2010 included significant legal expenses which did not repeat.
On a sequential basis significant drivers of the variance from the prior quarter included the reduced volumes in the higher variable selling expenses in the first quarter of 2011 and the favorable legal recoveries realized in the fourth quarter of last year.
We basically maintained our favorable annualized run rate of the underlying fixed SG&amp;A expenses in the first quarter of 2011.
Early in the quarter we completed the bid process and sold our Anavia condominium rental community in Southern California at terms we believe are favorable to KB Home.
Although this was a valuable asset it was not core to our business strategy.
Cash proceeds from the sale were used to pay off the related secured debt.
As Jeff mentioned our first quarter results included significant charges related to the South Edge joint venture.
As a result of the February 3 2011 court decision confirming the involuntary bankruptcy of the joint venture we have determined that our investment in the JV is no longer recoverable and we recognized a charge of $54 million to write off the remaining amount on our balance sheet.
In addition we recorded an obligation to cover our estimate of a probable amount that we will pay to the lenders if we cannot offset or defend against the enforcement of the Springing Guaranty.
Our obligation relating to the Springing Guaranty is partially offset by an amount equal to the current estimated fair value for the South Edge land.
In connection with recording a probable obligation we took a charge of approximately $23 million in the quarter.
Excluding our estimate of KB Home's share of the probable amount due for a related arbitration award which is separately reserved this leaves a liability on the balance sheet of $137 million relating to the South Edge joint venture at February 28 2011.
Essentially the charges taken in the first quarter are due to our reassessment as a result of the court decision in early February of probable amounts that will be paid to the lenders and the underlying legal status of the JV entity.
As of year end and up through the time of filing the 10-K we did not consider probable that the court would enter the order for release.
We were obviously surprised and disappointed by the court's ruling and had to recalibrate our liability estimates based on that event.
However South Edge continues its legal defense in relation to this matter and it has appealed the court's decision.
I want to emphasize that this is a complex situation with a range of potential outcomes that may take many months to finalize.
As Jeff said we are looking at a variety of ways to resolve the issue.
We remain committed to eventually taking ownership of our share of the South Edge assets and in the land-constrained Las Vegas market we believe this will provide great value to KB in the future.
Please refer to our Form 10-Q which will be filed on Monday for additional disclosures and details relating to this issue.
I would also add that the remainder of our company's joint venture exposure is quite low as we have been actively working to reduce this over many years.
We actually just favorably resolved our Kyle Canyon JV during the quarter and we have no debt associated with any of our remaining eight joint ventures.
Moving on our backlog at the end of the first quarter decreased 38% on a year-over-year basis to 1 689 from 2 713 while the projected future revenues in backlog declined 32% to approximately $354 million at the end of February 2011 from approximately $524 million at the same time last year.
We began the year in a trough in terms of backlog and deliveries and our backlog at the end of the first quarter remains low but our momentum is growing.
As sales activity picks up during the year and as we continue to introduce more new home communities we expect volume and margins to expand in the second half.
Until more of our planned new communities are aligned and we see the sales pace that is established during the spring selling season it is difficult to make predictions.
However our view is that our backlog should be higher year-over-year by the end of Q3.
Our cash position at quarter end was approximately $857 million reflecting the normal seasonal cash burn of a low delivery quarter our first quarter land acquisition and development spending and a heavier bond interest payment schedule.
As we plan our cash management for the rest of the year and evaluate our capital structure we remain mindful of our potential South Edge obligations and continue to evaluate our financing strategy going forward.
Now I will turn the call back over to Jeff Mezger.
Thanks Jeff.
As I have shared the stabilization process is commencing with select submarkets in many of our cities and based on our previous land investment and new community opening strategy we are well positioned to benefit.
As we continue to navigate these times we remain nimble prudent and strategically opportunistic in our land and lot acquisitions.
We spent $140 million on land acquisition and development in the first quarter a figure which could depending on market conditions on the ground increase in future quarters just as our investments increased in the latter half of 2010.
If markets strengthen we have the flexibility to spend more.
But if markets weaken further we will hold back on future investment until we feel the timing is right.
We grand opened or reopened with new product 33 new communities in the first quarter of 2011 most of which occurred in the month of February while at the same time closing out 18 communities in the quarter.
We have plans to open about 40 more communities in the second quarter for a total of around 70 in the first half of the year setting up a nice growth trajectory for the latter half of 2011.
As we open more new home communities we remain committed to our Built to Order model which historically provides for stronger margins and better visibility in our business as well as higher customer satisfaction.
The sales momentum we have experienced since March was based primarily on Built to Order sales.
Our Built to Order homes represent the utmost in quality value and choice to the consumer and our products and company continue to be acknowledged.
KB Home's leadership in building energy-efficient homes was recently recognized by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency with their highest honor the ENERGY STAR Sustained Excellence Award based on our many years of successful collaboration.
KB Home was the only builder to receive this prestigious award in 2011.
KB Home was also once again named the number one homebuilder in FORTUNE Magazine's 2011 list of the World's Most Admired Companies.
This is the third time in the past four years that KB Home has achieved the top ranking and our company also received the highest score in the subcategories of innovation people management and social responsibility among homebuilders.
This kind of independent recognition from analysts and our peers as to how we are running our business is gratifying for us as a company and confirms for us that we are doing the right things to stand out and succeed in our industry going forward.
I'd like to thank our talented and hard-working employees for their efforts in making all of these accomplishments possible.
As we look ahead to the remainder of 2011 we like our position from a strategic geographic and financial point of view.
The encouraging sales trend we are beginning to see develop should play out in the second half in the form of improved financial results.
The transformation we have undergone over the past few years is also starting to gain traction in our business.
We have dramatically reduced our overall costs to operate the business.
We have a product that is attuned to today's buyer in design features and price point.
We are operating in 30 of the best long-term growth markets with new communities concentrated in the best submarkets within each of those locations.
Our community count growth is underway.
We are enhancing our brand awareness through our marketing and PR outreach and we are achieving record levels of customer satisfaction.
Lastly our current sales pace and trajectory should allow us to generate favorable monthly sales comparisons starting in May positioning us for a positive year-over-year sales comp and strengthening our backlog as we head into 2012.
While the economy is improving it is unclear whether the broader housing market is bouncing along the bottom stabilizing or improving.
Nonetheless tangible momentum is building in our business and we look forward to leveraging the talents of our entire team to seize opportunities.
And with that we will open it up to you for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Stephen East with Ticonderoga Securities.
If we could focus a little bit on go back to Inspirada.
And could you sort of give us a rundown of okay if you reserve for everything this $180 million $200 million is that fully reserved with the liability of $137 million? I guess I'm just not clear as to where we are on that.
And then for the focus group the arbitration that was won earlier is that already reserved for as well? And just sort of what's involved with bringing the land onto the books and did you bring any on this quarter? Yes Steve we could cover that.
First of all as you know the situation remains very complex.
There's the bankruptcy that's out there there's various constituents involved so it is a complex situation.
Our reserve at year end was over $100 million relating to the issue.
And we increased the reserves during the first quarter because of the trigger the February 3 court order.
After the court order we considered it probable that our obligation would grow and we made reserve adjustments as a result.
Just to answer more specifically some of your questions the reserve at the end of the quarter includes about $212 million relating to principal interest and fees due to the lenders.
It's offset as we talked about in the script by the fair value of the land that we estimated.
We have a reserve on the books as a result at the end of the quarter of $137 million.
In respect of the focus arbitration we do have a separate reserve set up for that that did not change during the quarter.
So that reserved for focus is not included in the $137 million and it was separately set up and preserved during the quarter.
As we said earlier it is complex.
It's described this whole issue is described in much more detail in the 10-Q that will be filed on Monday and I ask you to please refer to that for additional disclosure and information.
Okay.
And then so from your standpoint it looks like you don't believe there's anything else out there that would get your book value? And what would be involved in bringing the land back on the book that Jeff you had alluded to and did you do any at the first quarter? No we did not record any land on the books this quarter.
It was more used as an offset to the estimated liability.
The involvement there we have to work through the bankruptcy process to actually gain ownership of the land.
We will work through that either through an agreed reorganization plan or through a repayment under the Springing Guaranty and then dealing with the bankruptcy as a follow-up.
Next we'll hear from Michael Rehaut with JPMorgan.
First question I was hoping to get -- drill down a little bit more on the gross margins.
The detail on the 410 bps from lower volume was hopeful.
As you look at -- so but on that number and the other numbers the 410 bps did that also include kind of incremental let's say fixed or overhead you're seeing in addition to the lower volume because of the new communities? And then if you could also kind of rank the other impacts that you mentioned for the balance of the I assume the 410 was a year-over-year decline so if you can give us a sense of how the others order of magnitude or how that kind of -- if there's a way to quantify that impact as well? Yes okay let's start with the leverage impact.
The leverage impact was more a maintenance of our expenses as opposed to increased expenses during the quarter.
As our volumes were down significantly from the fourth quarter to maintain the same percentage although we would have had to cut several different types of expenses on a pro rata basis which we elected to not do that and instead keep those resources in place for upcoming launches.
And those expenses included things like our land operations in the field our construction operations purchasing customer service those type functions that don't really fluctuate that tremendously by volume on a quarter-to-quarter basis.
We saw less of an impact on the leverage when you look to year-over-year because we had taken some reductions on those expense types as we moved through 2010 but the difference between the fourth quarter and the first quarter were not there so we maintained at that level.
So the 410 was a sequential number? That was the sequential number from the fourth quarter that's correct.
Okay.
And then the other items if you can kind of give us a degree of magnitude and how they impacted the closeout of the higher communities' negative pricing and mix? Yes the closeout of the higher communities was in the neighborhood of 150 basis point impact.
The pricing was about 50 basis points and the rest the mix impact kind of fills in the balance.
Okay.
Second question on just looking at the order decline for the actual quarter I think Jeff mentioned that the communities that you opened were mostly in February.
And if I understand it right you ended the quarter around 140.
Well can you give me what the average community was for the quarter.
But my question I guess is really for the fourth quarter you had a decline average communities down year-over-year of about 24%.
Is it fair to say that the majority of the declines during the quarter were driven by the community count decline versus the absorption? Or how do you think about year-over-year absorption pace? Michael let me make a couple of comments because what we're trying to figure out how to reposition our communication to the investor world on community count.
Because we traditionally counted it based on deliveries of the minimum of 5.25.
We've done it that way for 20 years and it's been an ongoing debate both for us and our industry to try to get something that's clear and objective and makes sense.
When your deliveries drop the way ours did it understates your communities because we didn't have as many deliveries of five or more in a community as we would have in previous quarters.
And having said that I shared what's opening for sale because our community-opening strategy remains totally on track.
Our delivery results blur what's actually going on in the specific community count.
So Jeff I don't know if you want to share what kind of numbers we want to set up for the year.
Yes sure.
I think as Jeff said the delivery decrease predominantly was due to absorption as opposed to community count change.
We did open 33 new communities in the first quarter we had 18 closeouts.
As Jeff mentioned we're still on pace with our opening plans as we discussed during previous calls.
We still have 40 additional openings scheduled for Q2.
The historical method of calculating it based on deliveries really doesn't make a lot of sense.
It's giving us a number that really distorts our view of our store footprint and we pulled back really from going public with that number at this point and really rethinking the way we're counting communities on that basis.
The reason we started providing more detail into this last quarter was really in relation to the current year strategy where we're opening new planned communities.
As we reopen these communities and start delivering homes it will take several months and in many cases a two-quarter lag before you see those in the way we've historically measured community count.
But despite that by the third and fourth quarter our community count should be reflecting the 25% increases as we previously discussed.
So I think the message the underlying message is the quarter volume was mainly absorption-related as opposed to community count change.
We are on track with our community count openings and we're optimistic on the success of those openings as we move through the year.
We've seen that success with most of the openings.
In fact even early on at this point in the year and we're hitting our pro forma numbers that we underwrote too.
So that's sort of the high level on that one.
We'll hear from Michael Smith [ph] with GMP Securities.
If we could just dig into the margin question a little bit more.
Jeff could you talk about just seasonally how the margin changed a little bit and specifically if there's some stuff that you guys generally load into Q1 that isn't there in the other quarters that might make the margins a little bit lower seasonally in Q1? No there's nothing to the accounting or through any kind of loading of expenses or loading of accruals or anything else in Q1 that would make it significantly different than Q4.
Like I said the main driver is really the volume and the leverage on the volume in the first quarter as compared to the prior quarter.
Okay.
And can you guys comment on what your margins are on your backlog right now your gross margins? We really haven't guided on gross margins Michael.
As we've shared in our strategy we have a nice trajectory of new communities opening that are in better locations and positioned for better margin and we know that the higher revenue that comes with the increased openings will leverage our margins and our SG&amp;A later in the year.
But until we get deeper into the selling season see how things totally evolve in the next couple of months we're really not giving guidance on go-forward margins.
That's fair.
Can you guys -- can you comment on what kind of spread you're seeing in sort of new versus old land on the gross margin front? Michael I don't know that we've really done that.
As we've shared our basis our lot basis in these new communities is better positioned for higher margins but we want to see how the sales evolve.
At a high level you'd expect the new communities are going to have better margins than your legacy book of business I'll call it.
But we haven't guided on that because we want to see what happens.
April May and June are critical selling months for us and then we'll have that answer.
One of the things we have been talking about the last couple of quarters is the mix in deliveries coming from impaired versus unimpaired communities.
And we saw sequential improvements in that.
In other words more towards new in both the third quarter and the fourth quarter.
The difference between the fourth quarter and the first quarter of this year has been more consistent.
We remain at about 1/3 of our deliveries coming from impaired which is about the same number that we had in the fourth quarter.
So that was an improving factor on margins in prior quarters and because of the flatness in that it really had very little impact this quarter.
Next we'll hear from Bob Wetenhall with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> I wanted just to get some clarity on your backlog and to confirm did you say that the number of backlog in the third quarter was likely to be higher year-over-year on an absolute basis? Yes we did Bob.
We're going to go through what we call an inflection point where we're confident in our sales comps because they were so weak after April of last year.
We're confident that we'll have positive sales comps and we're projecting that we'll cross over and have a higher unit backlog by the end of the third quarter.
LLC</strong> If that's the case then are you expecting your conversion rate to -- what kind of conversion levels are you looking for in the next two to three quarters? That's a great question because part of what we're working through here is a transition back to a fully-loaded Built to Order model.
And in normal times our conversion rate will be 50% to 60% because a lot of the backlog is yet to be started.
And then in turn with those dirt sales you convert to even-flow production you get the synergy and benefits of the even-flow.
So my guess would be as our backlog grows you'll see our conversion rate go down a little bit.
We've been running at higher with -- covering some of the inventory that was a carryover from last year that we're not going to have by the third quarter or fourth quarter of this year.
Having said that I said in normal times at 50% or 60% we have positioned the company for a much quicker turn from contract to close.
So maybe 60% in a fully-loaded backlog which we're not at yet.
We still have some inventory to cover and you saw what we did in the first quarter.
But once the backlog is fully spread out it will drop down probably around 60%.
LLC</strong> Fair enough and that's very helpful.
If you can just enlighten me a little bit I'm trying to bridge through and understand your commentary about new orders.
It sounds like you're excited and can achieve pretty strong favorable comparisons in 3H in the second half of the year.
But can you give us some guidance on the May quarter? Like you expect positive comps in May.
It sounds like you don't know yet in April and it was still a tough March.
Is that a fair summary of it? Let me go the other way Bob.
We actually shared March and we were pleased that it's "only a negative 6% comp" because last year March became the feeding frenzy tied to the tax credit deadline.
I also shared in the comments that April we will have a negative comp because April last year was the pinnacle of frenzy and then our sales fell off the map for the rest of the year.
So we know we'll have a negative comp in April.
We also feel very confident we'll have a positive comp in May.
And as April and May unfold we'll see how we end up the year.
But the trajectory of our sales is very favorable and we think after April and May we'll be repositioned with a better community count and a weak comp from last year.
You got all these things that will be working in our favor once we get past April.
Next we'll hear from Joshua Pollard with Goldman Sachs.
My first question is on gross margins.
If you look back over the last two years both '09 and '10 you've seen a range of somewhere around 200 to 250 basis points from high to low on your gross margin.
Is there anything about this year between what you've seen from the first quarter margin what you guys see from your backlog and how your sales experiences has gone that would suggest that that range should be wider in 2011? Yes Josh.
I think it will be wider in 2011 as we were talking about.
When our volume levels and our deliveries come back in the second half we will basically have eliminated much of that negative leverage impact that we saw in the first quarter so there's 410 basis points coming from that.
And keep in mind too when we're talking of these swings right now off small top line numbers that's $8 million.
So we had an $8 million expense penalty I'll call it in the first quarter for maintaining those expenses.
At a $400 million top line we have basically eliminated a lot of that that negative leverage.
So I think you will see wider swings this quarter particularly between the first half and the second half.
So I mean is it unreasonable when we think about modeling going forward to have you guys getting back towards your second half 2010 levels as you get into the second half of 2011? I don't think that's unreasonable.
Okay that's helpful.
I guess the other question that I have for you guys was centered around your cash balance and ultimately your balance sheet.
You're now sitting at 60% to 60%-plus net debt to cap.
I recognize that the deferred tax asset is off the balance sheet.
But A was the target there? B could you talked about what if any cash impact you guys would expect from the South Edge ruling as you look at where your cash balance would be and how much cash outflow would need to happen? And then could you talk about any other large expected use of the capital for this year? Okay.
sorry you asked a lot of questions into one.
I guess starting with the South Edge like we talked about there's $212 million that we have accrued as an obligation and I think that's probably a fair start point for the cash impact from that issue.
You've had to add some estimate on the arbitration depending on when that's settled.
And also consider that there are other strategies other than an outright cash outflow from the company that we could employ to reduce the cash impact from that partnering financial partners et cetera are other things that we're exploring and looking at.
So the timing is a little uncertain.
The ultimate resolution is uncertain but there are some range of options there.
The largest impact on cash is land spend that's somewhat discretionary as we move through the year.
Jeff mentioned we are watching that very carefully.
Our underwriting standards have remained very high and consistent and we will meter that up or down depending on our outlook on strength of the market strength of deliveries and on the opportunities that we see as we move through it.
Now those are the two primary sides.
As far as targeting goes you're correct in pointing out the DTA [deferred tax asset] is not on the balance sheet.
Over $800 million of valuation allowance right now that would significantly move our leverage ratio so it remains our company's focus and one of our highest priorities to remain and continue down the path of sustained profitability so that we're able to recapture that DTA and fix a lot of issues right now with our leverage ratio as a result.
So we're watching it closely.
We are mindful of the obligations that we have and we'll continue to maintain and watch the capital structure.
Our next question comes from David Goldberg with UBS.
Hello it's actually Susan on for David.
I just wanted to go and ask a little bit about the discussion that you're having with BofA around your mortgage JV.
I know that you mentioned that you're exploring some different or new options.
Would this kind of include different JVs or could you potentially bring this back into sort of more of an in-house model? Susan we could.
We haven't contemplated that at this time.
As you look back over the years we had the JV with Countrywide and then in turn BofA it was a very nice partnership and that it frees us up to focus on what we do well which is building homes and taking care of our customer and leaves the mortgages to the mortgage experts.
And it worked well on both sides so we like that.
At this time we continue to talk with BofA where we're in the first few innings of the discussions on where to take it but there's numerous avenues that we could follow.
We just haven't picked one yet because we're continuing to work with BofA.
Okay.
And so can you give us any sense on timing of this? I mean is it something that you expect to sort of resolve within this fiscal year or any sense of how long it could take? I'd say by the third quarter.
Okay.
We'll have some clarity where we're going.
Okay and the...
In the meantime we're continuing to operate delivering homes and working within the JV structure today.
Dan Oppenheim with Crédit Suisse has our next question.
I was wondering if you could talk a bit more about cancellations.
I didn't hear so much about that in terms of your remarks but clearly the high percentage of the backlog in the last conference call you talked about how there's a spike in the month of November.
Clearly it continued for the quarter.
What would you say is causing -- what were you doing now to try to work on that here? Good question Dan.
Actually it's a nice story.
We did have some carryover issues in December tied to those things that we referenced on our last call with the tapering of loans in the current environment.
But the trajectory here on the can side is very similar to the experience on the sales floor.
So Jeff why don't you give him the actual numbers.
Yes we'll give you some detail on the numbers to give you a better feel for it.
We are looking and more focused on the percentage of the gross sales because of the low backlog numbers and you've seen a lot of distortion in the can rate percentage just moving up or down based on end of quarter backlog.
So as an alternative we are looking more to monthly and we've always looked at it internally this way the monthly percentage of gross sales and there has been a nice progression as Jeff mentioned.
In the fourth quarter we talked a fair amount about the spike in November and our cans reached almost 43% in the month of November again as a percentage of the gross.
That was starting at 29% September; 38% in October; 43% in November.
As we started dealing with the issues and started really digging in and putting a focus on it as a company we've seen a progression downward in the first quarter.
December started or more or less continued the trend from November with a slight improvement down to 37%.
January came in at about 29% and the February can rate was down around 24%.
So we're continuing to work that issue down and seeing some positive result as a result of the actions we've taken.
I guess and maybe I'm confused here but I guess everyone else in the industry and given the seasonality of orders most everyone else has looked at the percentage of backlog rather than the orders especially as you get into the seasonal stronger period those numbers are clearly going to look more favorable.
But I guess is that trend still the same as a percent of backlog? Say that again you're asking for the percentage...
I mean I'm just surprised you've looked at it as percentage of orders that way.
Well in the Built to Order model I think it's more consistent.
We're seeing a lot of cans before we're starting our homes so although they're ending up in backlog at a point in time the can rate before start is an issue and is the main issue from our point of view.
We see more secured backlog I think than a lot of the peers as a result of that as a result of the process and we have less issue from that point forward.
Dan when it's an inflection point on backlog our backlog at the beginning of this quarter was the lowest it's been in years and we've shared we're going to be growing it through the year.
So I don't -- the reason we're back to growth is you can take the lowest point in the year and say that's a typical can rate.
And conversely while the growth is lower it's a better reflection of your contract activity and that number's continued to decline.
Adam Rudiger with Wells Fargo Securities has our next question.
LLC</strong> The last quarter we heard from a couple of builders talk about tightening in the mortgage underwriting standards.
I was wondering how that changed sequentially for you if at all? It really didn't change too much.
I'm sure you heard of the FHA [Federal Housing Administration] news and what they did on their mortgage insurance premium which on our average loan within our bid was probably $30 worth of payment.
So I guess you'd say that's an underwriting impact because you have to be able to cover $30 more in payment.
The trends we shared in the fourth quarter were more tied to documentation and the paper required for loan approval.
FICO scores haven't changed and ratios haven't changed.
So I would say that underwriting remains challenging because it has been for quite some time.
But I don't think it necessarily got any more difficult in the quarter.
LLC</strong> Okay great.
And then secondly just a housekeeping can you give us your owned and option lot count? Yes owned and option at the end of the quarter was 37 000.
LLC</strong> The breakout? We had 7 000 option and the remainder was owned.
Next we'll hear from Nishu Sood with Deutsche Bank.
This is Rob Hansen on for Nishu.
So you got a 22% month-over-month increase in sales in March and you opened most of your communities in February.
So that implies the absorption pace was pretty good as well.
So how does this compare to kind of a typical pace from a March over February perspective historical perspective? The 22% you referenced was from February to March? Yes from March over yes March February.
My gut reaction would be it's a little higher than normal.
Okay.
I mean did you have to offer more incentive to get buyers off the fence? Or was this -- I think you kind of mentioned that was kind of a natural progression but...
In March you typically sell more than you do in February.
I think ours was helped by the new community opening impact.
So it wouldn't be that we have more incentives on our sales is that we have more communities opened that are in more desirable submarkets and are working okay.
All right.
And then if you exclude the JV charges this quarter would you still -- would you expect to be profitable for the full year? Excluding the JV charges for the quarter we also had other events in the quarter but I don't think we'll comment on that one.
I think -- it depends on the sales event in the spring.
Coming back to your other question on the March versus February.
I think it's very important the comments that Jeff made during the scripted portion of this we had a 36% year-over-year shortfall in the month of February this year versus last year.
We closed that gap significantly in March.
It's less than 6% in the month of March.
So If you look at it in the last year it wasn't the usual progression either with the tax credit but there's a pretty large gap closure in one month.
We'll move on to Jay McCanless with Guggenheim Partners.
LLC</strong> Two questions.
First one's a housekeeping.
What was your finished and unfinished spec count at the end of the quarter? Okay.
Finished and unfinished was about 400 exclusive of the condos.
LLC</strong> And then my other question just wanted to find out.
Historically I don't believe you have given out much on incentive levels but if you could comment on what they were in the first quarter of '11 relative to say the fourth quarter and then maybe first quarter of last year what you're all having to give for incentives? I don't know how much you covered our business model but we're really more priced to the consumer focus.
So we're not a heavy incentive company.
I don't know what the actual number is but it has to be tenths of a percent movement.
It's not...
It's not significant.
Yes it wasn't a big number.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So that was not a significant factor in the year-over-year decline in the gross margin? Right.
Next we'll hear from Buck Horne with Raymond James.
Inc.</strong> You kind of covered this a couple of times.
I just wanted to see if you can help me quantify it a little bit better.
So you're down 36% in February in terms of orders and then you were down 6% in March.
I was wondering can you quantify for us to what the year-over-year percentage change and the community count was in March versus February then what it was in March? Were you up 10% in February and then it went to up 20% in community count in March? Yes we're really more focused on what we're opening this year and where we're going.
If you look at the progression during the last year we started the year at a higher number declined as we went through the year and picked it back up in the fourth quarter a little bit.
Compared back to the first quarter of the last year I'd tell you we're relatively the same in actual communities out there.
Again trying to differentiate between a five delivery per community where it counts and what's actually physically on the ground I think you're asking more what's physically on the ground because we've pretty much reloaded the pipeline to get us back about even with last year.
But we've shared what we opened and closed in Q1.
Right.
Inc.</strong> I think it would help the communication certainly if you would reconsider the definition of what's the active community.
We're going through that Buck we talked about it a couple of times.
We're going through that as a company.
There's pros and cons from doing it.
Having a very rigidly defined definition helps you with consistency.
The company has been very consistent for a number of years.
On the other side of it the con of it is when you're having a quarter-to-quarter delivery volume impact that we've seen it makes the number a little less meaningful I think to people.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Last one can you just characterize the nature of the pricing pressure that you're starting to see and kind of which markets are you starting to -- where is that starting to show up the most right now? Buck as I mentioned in my comments it's an extremely local business so even within any of the cities we're in you'll have different pressures in one submarket than you would across town.
If you go to a more broad-based point of view the pressures would be in the places that you've heard about like the Phoenix or Orlando parts of Central Florida.
Houston in Texas we've seen more price pressure than we have in Austin and San Antonio.
When we look at it and view resale as our biggest competitor you can look at the resale pricing and tell where markets are moving around.
The caution there is you have to look at the submarket that the communities are in and what's happening to resales there.
We mentioned price pressure because it is an element but it's not a broad-based prices are going down across the system kind of a thing.
It was a much less of an impact on our margin than the leverage side.
Our final question will come from Mike Widner with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Most of my questions have been answered but just wondering if you could comment a little more on geographies and where you might see greater strength especially in more recent trends both from a volume standpoint as well as competitive pressures on pricing standpoint? Clearly the closer you are to the coast in California the better the markets are.
And there's parts of coastal California for instance Santa Clara County up in the Bay Area or Orange in San Diego down here in SoCal that are performing very well.
In fact prices are going up as the months go by not huge but $1 000 this month and $2 000 next month.
The further inland you get the softer it is.
And the more inventory there is so we think there will be pricing pressure that's sustained out 40 50 miles out compared to what you see on the coast.
D.C.
continues to perform well as job growth and prices are up for the second year in a row.
Texas overall is holding didn't boom hasn't busted.
There's parts of Texas that is seeing some pressure more so in DFW [Dallas Forth Worth] and Houston than in Austin and San Antonio.
Colorado is holding its own.
I shared our Vegas results.
We're doing well in Vegas because of the price points that we're offering product at not that the market's healthy.
And Carolina's about flat maybe a little more pressure in Charlotte than in Raleigh.
It's a mixed bag out there.
That's why there is a submarket in every city that's firming up but it's offset by many that is still difficult the further you get from the job centers.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> And if I could just one follow-up on the South Edge clearly there's still some unknowns out there.
I'm just wondering if you could talk about kind of the exact state of where that discussion is with JPMorgan? And specifically what I mean is it kind of in arbitration at this point? Is it still individual negotiation between you and JP representing the creditors? Or is it -- how is that all evolving? And when can we expect any sort of next step towards finality in that? Okay yes.
I think to start with we are still in litigation on the various pieces of this the South Edge entity has appealed the bankruptcy decision so that's still in litigation.
There is a number of other outstanding cases surrounding it so our comments are somewhat limited on this.
But like I said earlier I mean there's a couple of different paths this could go down.
We have not been presented with the guarantee payment request at this point.
There are discussions happening.
To talk much beyond that's probably not terribly appropriate right now but it is and continues to remain to be a very complex situation.
That will conclude our question-and-answer session.
I'll turn the conference over to Mr.
Jeff Mezger for any additional or closing comments.
Thank you.
Before we sign off I want to reiterate KB Home's solid position when it comes to our strategy customer focus product offering well-balanced geographic footprint and tenured management team.
We look forward to improving our results and are prepared to take KB Home to the next level of performance as the housing markets continue to improve.
Thank you again and have a great day.
This does conclude today's conference call.
Thank you for your participation and have a nice day.
Well good day everyone and welcome to KB Home 2011 Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference call is being recorded and webcast on the KB Home website at kbhome.com.
The recording will be available via telephone replay until midnight Eastern Time on July 7 2011 by calling (719) 457-0820 or (888) 203-1112 and using the replay passcode of 3625696.
A replay will also be available through the KB Home website for 30 days.
KB Home's discussion today may include certain predictions and other forward-looking statements that reflect management's current expectations or forecasts of market and economic conditions and of the company's business activities prospects strategies and financial and operational results.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance and due to a number of risks uncertainties and other factors outside of its control KB Home's actual results could be materially different from those expressed in or implied by the forward-looking statements.
Many of these risk factors are identified in KB Home's filings with the SEC which the company urges you to read with care.
The discussion today may also include references to non-GAAP financial measures as defined in Regulation G.
The reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and other Regulation G required information is provided in the company's earnings release issued earlier today which is posted on the Investor Relations page of the company's website under Recent Releases and through the financial information news release link on the right-hand side of the page.
And now I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Jeff Mezger.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Kelsey and good morning everyone.
I'd like to thank you all for joining us today for a review of our results for the second quarter 2011.
With me this morning are Jeff Kaminski our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Bill Hollinger our Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer.
I will begin with some commentary on housing and the economy and then I will talk about our Q2 results and how we are operating within the broader market.
Next I will turn it over to Jeff who will provide a financial overview and after a few closing comments we will then open it up to your questions.
The second quarter was a difficult one for us especially given our low backlog levels coming into the quarter and a prior year comparison that included the positive impact of last year's federal tax credit.
However these reported results match the progress we have made and continue to make in our business.
When you look closer at the numbers and take out the one-time charges financially we were roughly flat year-over-year despite approximately 500 fewer unit deliveries than a year ago.
More importantly we believe we have reached a turning point in many aspects of our business.
We are growing our community count through opening communities in more desirable and stable areas improving our gross margins lowering our cost to operate and generating sales momentum that should result in positive order comps in the second half.
All of these actions are aimed at restoring our profitability and we expect to achieve this goal in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Many of the recent national reports on housing activity reflect today's soft housing environment and illustrate that we have a way to go on the road toward a housing recovery.
On the resale front in May sales were down 3.8% from April the fourth consecutive monthly decline and inventory levels now stand at a 9.3-month supply.
On the new home front May sales were down sequentially 2.1% while new home inventory is at an all-time record low of 167 000 units.
Just yesterday the S&amp;P/Case-Shiller Home Price and Conference Board Consumer Confidence Indices reinforced the continued weakness in economic and housing conditions.
However it is important to remember that when it comes to housing the national data presents a picture that often blurs the reality of what is going on at the local level.
When you focus on the individual markets and submarkets that make up the larger picture there is indeed more positive news to be found.
As I have said before and as we continued to see in the second quarter there are markets in many cities located in desirable areas close to employment centers and good schools that are demonstrating stability.
In these locations inventories are at manageable levels with supply and demand in balance and prices that have been steady or even rising for many months.
These are the areas in which KB Home is focusing its investment in new community openings particularly in coastal California and Texas.
There are 3 distinct market categories with their own price bands that we are now seeing emerge in housing: distressed sales traditional resales and new homes and KB Home can compete quite effectively in the latter 2.
Reported pricing pressures are largely the result of cash foreclosure buyers and investors in the distressed category.
We are seeing an increase in traditional buyers who are not interested in a foreclosure and are willing to pay a premium for a well-maintained resale or the benefits of owning a Built to Order energy-efficient KB Home.
In most markets monthly payments to own are lower than rent.
Indeed at the same time that home prices and low interest rates are making homeownership more affordable rents are rising.
The increase in rental rates is not because the American dream has lost its appeal.
In fact many public surveys have recently reported on the continued desire of the majority of renters to become homeowners in the future and with an increase in consumer confidence this demand can quickly become unlocked.
The housing downturn has been deeper and more protracted than most of us imagined it would be a few years ago and as a result many are wary of calling a bottom.
Tighter mortgage lending standards and even a looming reduction on conforming loan limits are serving to further dampen overall housing demand.
Most importantly jobs and consumer confidence have not recovered and both are critical in order to return to a more normalized housing market.
In the meantime we are staying focused on the desirable submarkets that have demonstrated stability improving our product offerings to meet the needs of today's homebuyers and doing what we do best to differentiate our company in the marketplace and capitalize on opportunities.
Turning now to our results KB Home reported a net loss of $68.5 million in the second quarter or $0.89 per diluted share.
Major contributors to the loss included an additional $14.6 million charge related to our South Edge joint venture and $20.6 million of abandonments and impairments.
While we are not happy with these results as I mentioned there is meaningful progress behind these numbers.
Our deliveries gross margin and SG&amp;A percentages all improved sequentially from the first quarter and based on our current momentum we expect to see continued sequential improvement in these metrics throughout the second half of the year.
We are also pleased to report that many of the positive trends we discussed in our last call with regard to sales and traffic continued in the second quarter.
Net orders of 1 998 were down 11% in the second quarter compared to the prior year a considerable improvement over the 32% year-over-year decline we experienced in the first quarter of 2011.
We anticipate positive quarterly year-over-year order comps for the remainder of 2011.
Moreover when comparing the sequential increase in net orders from the first quarter to the second quarter of 2011 we saw an increase of 53% compared to an increase of just 17% in 2010.
On a regional basis orders in our Central region were up 5% year-over-year and we were pleased to see the strength in the more stable Texas and Colorado markets.
Our West Coast region was down 11%.
However we expect this comp to improve dramatically as our new community openings gain traction over the second half of the year.
Orders in our Southwest and Southeast regions were down 23% and 29% respectively.
The majority of the shortfall in these 2 regions was related to decreased orders in Arizona and the Carolinas where we have significantly reduced our market presence.
In the absence of the extra earning tax credit influence on demand that we experienced in the first half of 2010 overall 2011 has shown a more typical pattern of gradual increases in home buying interest and activity through the spring selling season albeit a pattern at low levels.
At the same time traffic remains strong.
In fact the second quarter of this year was our highest traffic quarter since 2008.
Even though sales remain historically weak and the consumer continues to require a longer timeframe to make the home purchase decision it is encouraging to see this more normalized pattern emerge.
Serious buyers are returning to the market and they are recognizing that affordability has never been better.
As we open new communities in more desirable locations we are seeing a larger share of higher-income first time move up and active adult buyers reflected in our buyer profile and product mix.
Our Built to Order approach which gives buyers control over the size and structure layout of their floor plan in addition to their home's design features has allowed for this seamless and fluid shift.
We opened over 60 communities in the first half of the year and expect to open an additional 45 to 50 in the second half.
These openings are heavily weighted to California and Texas.
As I mentioned our customers are cautious in today's environment and we are seeing that phenomenon reflected in our grand openings as well.
Some of our new communities have been taking longer to achieve our anticipated sales rate once opened but we do see this momentum build over the 90-day timeframe post-opening.
In the second quarter over 320 of our reported net sales came from first quarter grand openings and we expect a favorable trajectory going forward as our recently opened communities gain traction and we continue to open additional communities in the second half.
Today we announced that we have acquired a sizable land and lot position in San Antonio from a private builder who is leaving the market.
It was an ideal transaction for us as we were able to acquire the land position of a major builder in a market that has reasonable land cost and good housing fundamentals without having to acquire a business enterprise and the liabilities that come with it.
This transaction did not require a lot of capital and comprises approximately 1 900 lots over 600 of which are fully developed in 11 communities.
It is a great example of our focused growth strategy in which we can move quickly to be opportunistic and leverage a strong performing management team and our KBnxt business model in a targeted city.
In fact we expect to have our first Open Series model homes completed and merchandised in several communities by the end of August.
This acquisition bolsters our already strong market position in San Antonio and is expected to provide incremental sales in the fourth quarter an additional 300 to 400 deliveries in fiscal '12.
In order to continue to fuel our community count growth we have been investing in select markets and submarkets that we believe are positioned for positive housing growth primarily in California and Texas.
We have spent a total of approximately $300 million on land and land development in the first half of 2011 roughly 80% of which was in those 2 states.
We are pleased with the investments we've been making and continue to commit our capital to high-quality assets in performing submarkets where we can begin to convert into revenue in less than 12 months.
As we remain diligent in applying our investment hurdles and strategic criteria we expect our land and land development expenditures for the full year to be approximately the same as 2010 around $560 million.
Turning now to other recent developments.
As we mentioned in our earnings release this morning KB Home has selected MetLife Home Loans as our new preferred lender.
MetLife is a strong consumer-friendly company with an outstanding reputation for customer service.
We chose to sign a marketing services agreement with MetLife because we are confident that they will provide exceptional mortgage services to our homebuyers allowing us to focus on what we do best: building high quality energy-efficient Built to Order homes.
MetLife Home Loans recently ranked #2 in overall customer satisfaction and #1 in the category of loan officer performance based on an industry study of 14 mortgage originators by J.D.
Power and Associates.
There are companies including MetLife who are interested in forming a mortgage banking joint venture with us and we are continuing to explore these options.
In the meantime we do not anticipate that this transition will result in any disruption for our customers or our delivery cycle.
I also wanted to discuss our recent announcement related to the South Edge joint venture.
We are pleased to have reached an agreement with the lenders in this matter which was described in detail in our 8-K filing of June 16.
This agreement provides a roadmap for selling our liability and eventually gaining ownership of the land.
It also gives us more clarity on timing which allows us the ability to start planning more aggressively for the future.
Our business in the land-constrained Metro Las Vegas area continues to perform well for us despite the challenges in that market overall and we believe the highly desirable Inspirada community has tremendous value for our business in both the near and long term.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jeff Kaminski who will provide more detail on our financials.
Jeff? Thank you.
As Jeff mentioned and as we commented during the Q1 call we knew our financial results in the second quarter would be difficult.
If you look at the sequential trends however the improvement can be seen in many of our financial metrics.
We expect this positive momentum to continue into the second half which speaks to the improvement of our underlying operations and should significantly enhance our financial results.
Our pretax loss in the second quarter of 2011 was $68.8 million compared to a loss of $30.6 million in the prior year.
The current year quarter included $14.6 million of charges relating to the South Edge joint venture and $20.6 million of abandonments and impairments taken in the quarter.
Excluding the South Edge impact as well as the inventory-related charges our pretax results were essentially flat to the prior year in spite of a reduction of over 500 unit deliveries primarily related to last year's federal tax credit.
KB Home delivered 1 265 homes in the second quarter at an average selling price of $213 400 representing a conversion ratio of 75% of our first quarter backlog.
This compared to 1 782 deliveries in the second quarter of 2010 at an average selling price of $207 900.
We continue to improve our business efficiency setting a company record in the second quarter for our average Built to Order cycle time of just 129 days between signing a contract and closing on the home.
Our construction cycle time also hit a new low of 71 days.
These compressed timeframes help us to effectively compete with resales in the market as we remain committed to our Built to Order business model.
Our backlog at the end of the second quarter stood at 2 422 homes representing potential housing revenues of approximately $502 million.
This represents a 43% unit improvement from the 1 689 homes we had in backlog at the end of February 2011.
Housing gross margin excluding impairments and land option abandonments was 14.9% of housing revenues in the second quarter of 2011 compared to 17.7% in the same period the prior year.
On a sequential basis our margins improved by 150 basis points as compared to the first quarter.
Higher deliveries in Q2 provided a benefit of approximately 250 basis points which was partially offset by other miscellaneous impacts.
I would note that we have also closed the year-over-year gap in our margin performance significantly from a 5.4 percentage point difference year-over-year in the first quarter compared to just 2.8 percentage points in the second quarter.
For the third and fourth quarters we expect to see continued sequential improvement in our gross margins.
Our selling general and administrative expenses in the quarter were $62.5 million versus $83 million in the prior year and $49.6 million in the prior quarter.
As a percent of housing revenues SG&amp;A expenses improved on a sequential basis by 2.2 percentage points from the first quarter of 2011 and we expect this trend as well to continue for the remainder of the year.
We continued our consistent cost-reduction efforts during the quarter further consolidating resources amongst our division offices and corporate functions and as difficult as they are continuing our work force reductions.
Since year end there have been approximately 100 net positions eliminated across the company with about half of the reductions occurring during the second quarter.
These actions represent over $8 million of annualized savings in compensation and benefits.
Offsetting the cost improvements were increased marketing and advertising expenses of over $3 million during the second quarter to support our new community openings as well as higher variable expenses due to the increased order and delivery activity.
Consistent with the terms of our agreement with the South Edge lenders we took an additional charge of $14.6 million to address our accrual estimate relating to this issue to approximately $226 million.
We maintain our valuation of the underlying land at approximately $75 million consistent with what we reported in the first quarter and resulting in a net obligation of approximately $151 million.
We expect the cash flow relating to these transactions to occur in the fourth quarter 2011 or potentially early in the first quarter of 2012 coinciding with the emergence of the joint venture from bankruptcy and our recording of the land as an asset on our books.
In addition to reducing uncertainty surrounding this issue for KB Home this settlement is the next important step in moving forward with our monetization and development plans for this valuable asset.
Turning now to liquidity our cash position at quarter end was approximately $735 million.
As we look to the remainder of the year there are 2 major events that will negatively impact this cash balance: a $100 million outflow relating to the bond maturity in August and the previously discussed South Edge obligation.
The potential offset to the South Edge-related outflow are monetization strategies that may be implemented once we gain control of the land.
A combination of operational factors are also expected to positively impact our liquidity including higher unit deliveries improving margins lower SG&amp;A expenses and a disciplined land and development investment strategy.
Excluding South Edge we do expect positive operating cash flow for the second half of the year.
In addition we continue to evaluate the capital markets and may opportunistically access them to further augment liquidity.
We remain mindful of our balance sheet and liquidity position and we'll take the necessary steps to ensure we have enough liquidity to take advantage of opportunities in the market in support of our operating strategy.
Now I will turn the call back over to Jeff Mezger for some final remarks.
Thanks Jeff.
Before I move on to our longer-term outlook I want to highlight some of our actions and accomplishments in the quarter that relate to the many ways we are differentiating our company and our homes from both resale and new home competition.
The energy-efficient features we are building into our homes make them a superior value over other available homes in the market.
A great tool that helps to illustrate this point with consumers is our new KB Home Energy Performance Guide or EPG which projects typical gas and electric costs for every home we build similar to an MPG [miles per gallon] sticker projecting gas mileage on a car.
Consumers are responding positively as they are now empowered with vital information about their expected energy costs.
Homebuyers have always calculated and considered the PITI [Principal Interest Taxes &amp; Insurance] in any home purchased; the monthly principal interest taxes and insurance costs associated with homeownership.
We are now encouraging buyers to consider that the PITI plus E for energy costs.
Energy costs are another monthly cost that buyers should be aware of before they make the home purchase decision because it can vary greatly depending on the home they choose and it's truly part of the total cost of home ownership.
Our company also continues to receive third-party recognition for its commitment to building high quality energy-efficient homes.
We recently earned 12 ENERGY STAR Leadership and Housing awards from the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency a company record for our contributions to energy-efficient construction environmental protection.
We're also proud to release our Fourth Annual Sustainability Report on Earth Day April 22 and remain the only national builder to publish such a document.
I encourage you to take a look at this report posted on our website in that it truly represents the cutting edge and sustainable production homebuilding.
In addition during the quarter we reaffirmed our position as the first and only national homebuilder to receive National Housing Quality Certification of our operations nationwide by the NAHB Research Center.
This means that both our divisions and our subcontractors have been trained and certified in quality assurance systems that set the standard for excellence in our industry and is a key driver in our high levels of customer satisfaction.
I would like to thank our talented and dedicated employees for making all of these accomplishments possible and for their continued commitment to our customers.
This is a commitment that lies at the core of our business strategy and long-term success.
We expect that the overall housing market will remain relatively stable at current levels at least through the end of this year with local pockets of stronger performance.
The housing recovery will be a slow and steady process but along the way KB Home remains very well positioned to capitalize on opportunities.
As we look ahead in our business we expect that the positive momentum we have achieved in increasing deliveries and improving our operating margins will continue in the second half of 2011.
We have in many ways hit an inflection point within our company a point in which our new community openings are progressing well our backlog is growing our costs to operate are coming down and matters that were once uncertain in outcome such as South Edge are now being resolved.
We are also pleased to have MetLife available to service the mortgage needs of our customers.
All of our actions are positioning our company for a return to profitability and assuming continued stability in our markets we expect to achieve profitability in the fourth quarter of this year.
We will continue to plan and strategically invest for our future while maintaining a strong capital structure and ample liquidity.
Moreover we have the team the business strategy and the market positioning in place to achieve our profit goal and we will continue to work diligently to make it happen.
And with that we will open it up to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Michael Rehaut with JPMorgan.
First question I was hoping you can give a little bit more detail on the order trends during the quarter.
Coming out of last quarter you mentioned that March was down only 6% so we were looking for something a little bit better than down 11% for the overall quarter.
And I was hoping just to get a feel or numbers on month-to-month year-over-year changes as well as some better clarity in terms of the sales pace that you're seeing in the new communities.
I think you mentioned that maybe it's initially you're not getting the traction that you would have hoped but things improve as the community continues to operate.
Okay Mike.
Yes we'll start with talking a little bit about the quarter trends.
As we talked about last quarter March was down about 6% year-over-year and we started -- we felt that was a pretty strong trend going into the quarter given that the sales we liked what we saw in March and given it was coming off of a tough tax comp in the prior year with the tax credit we'd like to start.
April as we had anticipated I think we actually even talked in the call was down fairly big compared to last year as we had just an unbelievable month in April as the final month of the tax credit.
And then May for us bounced back in a big way offsetting a lot of the percentage decline that we saw in April.
So overall the 3 months March April May we're I guess improving.
May was actually better than April.
April was down from March and down big on a comp basis.
When you swing into June we're right now we're looking to be moderately up versus the prior year.
So I think I'd say overall this seasonal trend has been more or less a normal seasonal trend that we're seeing except that we're seeing I think even a stronger Q2 bounce off Q1 than we've seen historically.
I mean we were up over 50% in the quarter versus Q1 which we don't normally see and we're pleased with that and pleased with some of the indications.
And on the new communities Jeff? Mike I can talk to community count.
We shared this on previous calls as well but the consumer remains cautious.
And in normal times a grand opening event will pop a month or 2 months of sales on the opening weekend.
And we're seeing the traffic we typically get in an opening weekend and it's not unusual to get 300 400 500 people to a community.
We do a great job of promoting the new product in the new location.
But they're not making the purchase decision as quickly as they did previously.
And many of the analysts and investors have been asking us "Well how are the sales in your new communities?" And it's not like we can flip the switch and we get instant sales.
What we are seeing is as people reflect and visit and compare and contrast they're coming back and making the investment decision in their new home 60 days later 90 days later not that very next week because they're exploring all options and they're nervous.
And so that's why I shared that our Q1 openings generated over 320 sales in Q2.
I can't remember what the opening count was in Q1 but it's a pretty healthy sales pace once they got opened.
And that's what we expect to see going forward is our -- we'll gain traction in these openings from Q2 where we'll see more sales out of those and then we'll continue to open the community count that we shared in our prepared comments.
The second question kind of hits on gross margin side and we saw a little bit of improvement from first quarter.
And I believe part of the first quarter disappointment was due to some higher costs that you let in to support the community openings at that point.
And at the same time you had said that you would expect back half fiscal '11 margins to be more in the neighborhood of what we saw for most of 2010.
So I was wondering if you could kind of walk through the second quarter margins if there were still some incremental costs to support the new community openings.
And how -- give an update on how you're thinking about the back half of the year.
Yes Mike.
On the quarter starting with the quarter when you compare the second quarter to the first we actually got some benefit on the additional absorptions.
And that was really the primary driver if you recall from the first quarter not so much additional expenses related to community openings but more so the down volume by quarter that we had in the impact on that I think we talked about 410 basis points of negative impact in the first quarter.
We called back about 250 basis points this quarter due to that same issue as we had an improving delivery quarter and some more volumes coming through where we can absorb some of those costs that we have on the margin side so that was helpful.
Yes there was a couple of other smaller factors affecting it: small miscellaneous price in certain markets and a few other net items that offset the absorption but still right around 15% which is pretty close to our expectations and I think we indicated last quarter that we'd sequentially improve but not see margins returning to close to 2010 levels until the back half.
As I made a statement in the prepared remarks we still do expect sequential improvement in the third and then again in the fourth quarter.
And I'd say by the fourth quarter the running rate given the new communities that we have up and running and the deliveries that we expect from the new communities as well as the additional delivery volume that we're looking at in the second half of the year should keep us in that range of last year.
Our next question will come from Stephen East with Ticonderoga Securities.
First question Jeff Kaminski you talked about accessing the capital markets for liquidity potentially at least evaluating that.
Is that on the debt side or are you looking on the equity side as well? Right as we said we're looking at evaluating the capital market situation and making some decisions.
Our opportunities are open right now.
We're not specific on which side of the market we may access or even whether that transaction gets done.
We're not using this call to announce the transaction but to announce the indication that we're strongly looking at it.
We're obviously well aware of the liquidity and carefully managing the business along those lines so we'll explore all options as we move forward.
Okay.
And then if you look at your SG&amp;A last quarter you said 90% 95% of it was fixed.
But this quarter it moved up 25% sequentially as revenues moved up close to 40%.
So it sounds like there's a lot more variable than what we thought.
Could you talk what's going on there regarding that? And then also the impairment charges not the South Edge but the $20 million what that was driven by and when that land was purchased whether this is some old legacy or some new stuff? Sure.
Starting with the SG&amp;A we talked -- there was some incremental marketing expenses in the current quarter relating to new community openings and we generally classified marketing as more or less a fixed cost.
We did invest in money to support the new openings.
As Jeff indicated pretty accurate progress from the first quarter openings where we've now seen a full quarter of sales activity and expect to see more progress from those communities as we go through the year so there was an investment made there.
We did see on the variable side an uptick of about 70 basis points really on the commission side and that's really more come from a mix of our business and in certain regions we carried a slightly higher percent commission rate more due to the selling prices of homes and lower commissions in other markets where the prices are higher.
But we saw a bit of an impact coming from that side.
Again the SG&amp;A from an internal point of view looking at our forecast and where we were expecting it to go we did expect sequential improvement.
We saw that.
We did expect to see the increased marketing.
We made that investment cautiously and we saw that.
So again from an internal point of view we're pretty much on.
I guess I'll go ahead and answer your third question Steven because we like you so much but abandonments and impairments.
I'll start with a few comments just talking about our process overall and then I can give a little bit of detail on the charges in the quarter and some reasons and drivers behind it.
But I think as most of you guys know at KB we have a very disciplined process for evaluating our land parcels and communities.
We look at our inventory first.
We determine whether we see indicators of potential impairment and whether they exist.
Then if they do exist we identify we take that identified inventory and we evaluate it for recoverability in accordance with GAAP.
In the case of our company the process is performed very consistently each and every quarter as performed in our national accounting center in Phoenix.
We don't leave it up to division finance operations management and we feel -- we really feel the centralized approach provides us a greater level of consistency definitely a greater level of accuracy and objectivity as we move through it.
Now as you know during the current quarter we reported almost $21 million of abandonments and impairments.
That represented charges associated with 7 communities.
Obviously the quarter did represent a spike as compared to our recent history and if you go back pretty much all the way to the beginning of 2010 it's definitely a bit of an outlier.
And while we don't disclose community-level specifics on our inventory valuations and we don't intend to do that going forward I will say that we took an $18 million charge this quarter relating to an adjustment to fair value which we recorded after we took back the collateral on a note receivable in the second quarter.
The remaining charges on the other 6 communities were less significant and more or less in line with what we've seen over the past 5 quarters.
So basically while pricing cost margin et cetera while those are always factors driving impairments really the elevated level this quarter was more related to a relatively unique event.
Moving onto Ivy Zelman with Zelman &amp; Associates.
Just to clarify when you talk about your capital market options I think what I'd like to understand when you look at them recognizing that your equity is trading below book value right now why you would even consider equity or why don't you eliminate that as part of your options and at least explain to investors why you would have to do equity right now and if it's even being considered? Because obviously that's what's weighing on your stock right now.
While we understand that we also need to run a company and the forces involved in capital market decisions so we don't want to get ahead of our board number one.
Number two there are a number of options available to us and the markets change as they go.
We're under no urgency or pressure and we don't feel urgency or pressure on liquidity at this point in time number one.
The cash flow especially relating to South Edge is still 2 quarters out or nearly 2 quarters out for us.
We're not constraining our business operations with their liquidity levels at this point and we have some time to evaluate options.
And while we don't like certain things about the capital markets right now as we all know capital markets change rather quickly and we want to be in a position to react to it.
So there's a range of options available from simple debt or equity issuances to other options that are relating to bank lines et cetera.
So we're evaluating it all right now and we'll be more public with this as decisions get made and it could happen over the next 6 or 7 months.
Relating specifically to South Edge we're also still exploring options on monetization with that situation as well.
So until we really have all those pieces of puzzle pulled together we're going to stay open on it.
And ideally we'll earn some cash back and like I said earlier we do expect the second half to be positive operating cash flow so that will help us as well in liquidity and that's sort of our position right now.
Again just as a follow-up I would expect that if you were looking at your revolver it would be a lot cheaper than selling stock at below book value if you include the DTA.
That's true.
So you can't eliminate that as a choice for -- than appeasing anyone today but you would admit that as an option it would be on the lower end of the options? Right.
And one of the issues we look at is the offsets between dilution and interest expense with no tax shield so that's a consideration as well.
But yes at this point we won't give any more detail other than to say we'll keep our options open as we move forward and announce it at a time that's appropriate.
And Bob Wetenhall with RBC Capital Markets has the next question.
LLC</strong> Hi this is actually Tom Austin on for Bob Wetenhall.
I noticed that your conversions' rates actually ticked up in the quarter.
And I was wondering if you had any expectations for that going forward through the rest of the year if you thought that would come down as a backlog gross? You're talking about backlog conversions? LLC</strong> Correct.
Yes.
The backlog conversion in the quarter as we talked about 75%.
First quarter we had 71% fourth quarter last year 88% third quarter last quarter is 73%.
We had to go all the way back to the second quarter of last year to get it below 70%.
So we've been doing quite well on the backlog conversion.
Part of that was in relation to the comments I made on our build cycle time where we brought that down significantly and we're able to convert a lot more of our quarter end backlog the following quarter.
There's -- I see that as a real positive for the business.
I mean it's something we've focused on.
We've driven down the cycle times quite significantly and for me for planning purposes in that 70s range I think it's a pretty good range for the company maybe slightly higher in the fourth quarter as we really put a push on it that's going to be closing prior to year end.
When the market returns to normalcy and perhaps when volumes tick up you may see it go the other way.
But right now we think those numbers are pretty much average for us.
We'll move on to Dan Oppenheim with Credit Suisse.
Was wondering if you could talk about the discipline in terms of investing in land.
You're saying before that -- just talking about that.
Anything about community openings over the course of 2011 how much of that has already been spent? And if you're thinking about 2012 how are you looking at that in terms of being aggressive on land versus being fairly cautious and see how the environment has evolved there? Dan I can answer the first part of that and then Jeff can walk through what's been spent.
I think it's a vast majority if not all of it for '11.
But we continue to remain very disciplined in our return hurdles and we underwrite to an IRR first we don't bank on inflation.
The divisions have to support it with current sales rates in that market.
So it's I would say it's an opportunistically cautious approach in that if we see any opportunity that's compelling we'll go but there's no urgency to do a lot of acquisitions.
And it's worked well for us.
It's like a built-in governor when we're holding our IRRs up in the mid-20s.
And as we go forward I think you'll continue to see us in that mode as things come to market that are aligned with where we want to be strategically we have the ability to make the investment.
But it's not like we're investing much heavier than the number of deliveries we're reporting in the quarter in terms of unit count build.
You can see our lot count didn't move much and that's in part because we're staying pretty diligent on the better performing submarkets which happen to be land-constrained.
But it's not like there's lots on every corner so we have these built-in governors and we'll remain diligent.
Relating to second half openings as Jeff mentioned we currently have planned 45 to 50 additional openings.
That includes the deal that we just announced in Texas.
I would say the majority of that if not almost all of it actually the cash flow is out on that.
We have some development spending in the second half of the year that's included obviously in our land numbers that we always disclose.
But we're really looking to invest now for future periods and looking to start bringing revenues in within a 12-month period after investing.
And then the follow-up.
Just wondering about the new community you talked about being a bit sluggish starting off but are you doing anything -- do you need to do anything pricewise or are you finding it's more hesitation of buyers and then if you're not doing anything to adjust the mix in terms of incentives or price it should take a little bit longer? But Dan I wouldn't use the word sluggish.
It's just taking a little longer for people to make the decision.
We're not aggressively cutting price and doing incentives to the traffic we're generating and the interest we're generating and our new openings is working well it's just taking a little longer for the consumer to make the decision.
So we're letting that play.
And I think on average in the second quarter we averaged under 4 a week or a month I'm sorry under 4 a month in the communities that were open which is about our company run rate.
It's just taking a month or 2 to get there.
Our next question will come from Michael Smith with JMP Securities.
Most of my questions have been answered but real quick just to following up on what you said Jeff you said the company run rate was a little under 4 a month and that's after a little bit of a lag time where the new communities are hitting.
Is that right? And should I interpret that as meaning that your new communities are selling about at what the average is for the whole company? We're not happy at 3.5 4 a month Mike but that's pretty much what we're running around the system maybe a little higher.
What we're hopeful that we'll get the run rates up a little more as the community seasons and you get people living within the subdivision and you gain more momentum.
That's what typically happens.
My message is it's not like we're opening these communities and getting instant sales.
The sales are coming and they're performing to expectations there's just this little lag between opening the model and when you get to your run rate.
I'm sorry.
What I'm trying to figure out is -- let me be more explicit.
Can you put a number or even qualitatively kind of tell us what the difference is between your newer and older communities on sales pace? I mean is there a big difference there or not? There's not a big difference.
I think we're seeing on average the new communities doing slightly better than some of the more legacy but there's such a mix in both regions and where we're opening as well as what you get in the total community count where you have a community for example going in the closeout phase that's having the pace impacted by that.
Moving into Phase 2 you have the option communities that we made people can come out of the option where we have a slightly lower pace.
So it's really difficult to draw a lot of generalities around the question.
The other thing Mike that I'd offer is many of these communities that we're opening are not real large lot counts because they're in land-constrained areas.
An example would be the opening that we have in Playa Vista out here in LA back in May end of May.
When it's a 52-unit condo that you cannot replace and you wish you had 1 000 of them you're not going to push your sales pace.
You're going to push your price.
So part of our discipline here is to continue to balance the sales rate to the optimal price and margin without running as hot because you can't replace these.
Moving on to Ken Zener with KeyBanc.
[Technical Difficulty] Can you walk us through a modest recovery relative to your balance sheet equity and capital? If cash is going to fall 300-ish in the year end that's the $100 million debt maybe $200 million for the JV if I'm correct when the recovery occurs by our estimates you can correct me obviously I figure you'll need $150 million in working capital for each incremental 1 000 units.
So do you think you're basically going to be going to the capital markets for your working capital needs? Or is it your view over the next 2 or 3 quarters that there will be large land purchases that will motivate you even when your cash is in that $300 million to $400 million range? Ken I'll ask Jeff to speak to it.
I can tell you that we don't track capital to capital needed per unit because it depends on whether it's a rolling option lot that you close in 10 weeks in Houston or a major cash purchase in California that may take 9 or 10 months to get to the revenue.
So it depends on mix and we don't look at it that way and I can tell you that we're going to ensure that we have the firepower to be opportunistic.
The reason that we've shared the general comments we have is to let the investor world know that we're cognizant of our balance sheet in some of these cash demands that we're going to have.
But in part even on the South Edge situation everybody's assumed we're just writing a check and that's the way we underwrote the thing but we have options there.
So there's a lot of decisions that go into your cash burn and your cash need and it would start with getting our arms around what we're actually going to do with South Edge.
And then from there we'll evaluate it and move on.
I don't know if you have any other color.
Yes I mean the only other comments I'd make your estimate I'm not sure if you're including or not including or the amount you're including for second half positive cash flow which we do anticipate that will offset some of the negatives that you mentioned.
And on recovery when we look at recovery and normalization in the market one of the things that happens once the housing market stabilizes and starts getting back on its feet I believe capital access for companies like KB will be much more open and available and our options will be much wider.
So planning out into that market recovery period we have a level of confidence on both internally generated cash availability of revolvers et cetera in the marketplace as well as there's a whole different capital market situation.
So to us it's a different animal at that point in time.
Okay I appreciate that.
And I guess on a sequential basis looking at gross margin I think you guys did a great job at least explaining the gross margin issues or the fixed cost and gross margins last quarter.
When you look at it it appears to me that most of the decline in or increase in gross margins occurred because of the fixed cost absorption which means the direct whether that's land or your vertical actually went down.
So could you comment on that if it's wood land labor? And when you talk about rising gross margins in the back half it also appears the way we look at it that that's driven simply by the absorption of that fixed cost.
Do you actually see -- the fixed cost in gross margin that is.
Do you see your direct labor land costs or margins also increasing? Yes.
Just addressing the cost issue first I'd say the costs are relatively stable in the quarter and you're correct in saying the majority of the margin improvement came from the leverage side.
The costs were relatively stable and the pricing is relatively stable.
So the improvements like coming from the incremental deliveries was wealth and obviously and I think expected to continue into the second half.
I think a couple of the other drivers in the margin side in the second half one certainly will be new community openings.
We'll start deliveries in a more significant manner coming from those communities starting in Q3 and Q4.
And we have obviously higher margin projections coming out of new communities and that mix will help us as well as regional mix within the business.
Our next question will come from Michael Kim with CRT Capital Group.
I have a quick question on construction costs.
What are your direct construction costs right now? And how has that changed over the past few years? And any metrics on the per-square-foot basis would be helpful.
We really don't disclose square foot construction costs.
Okay great.
And I guess follow-up just on South Edge are there any potential uses of cash that could exceed what's been accrued for? Maybe thinking about the potential debt facility assumption of JV interest your pro rata share of accrued interests et cetera? And maybe the timing of executing your monetization strategy post the merger? The overall of the accrual right now includes -- it's an all-in accrual.
I mean there's not a separate accrual on accrued interest or a separate risk on accrued interest or anything like that.
The settlement agreement right now running through November with a possible extension in December is more or less a non-inclusive agreement.
We did range the potential in the 8-K and obviously for the quarter reporting we had to pick up the most probable point within that range which we've done with our $226 million accrual on the gross obligation.
So there's always a range in these things but it's not from the fact that it's outside what we're currently contemplating.
As far as the debt facility goes I think there was a little bit of confusion on that and there was a couple of press reports that came out right after the agreement went public and we did again disclose in the 8-K that we have a $21 million escrow deposit in that debt effectively providing some cash for the estate to administer the bankruptcy but it is in escrow on our final settlement.
So there is I think maybe a little confusion on that issue which is maybe what you're referring to.
Understood.
And the timing of executing a potential monetization strategy is that...
Well we'd like to.
Obviously we'd like to get as close as possible to the outflow.
And as Jeff said I mean we're looking at different options and we're planning.
We may or may not have and may or may not pursue a strategy along those lines.
But at this point it's as close that we can get it there.
Hearing no response we'll move on to James McCanless of Guggenheim.
LLC</strong> First question what was your spec count at the end of the quarter? The spec count at the end of the quarter remained pretty consistent with the last couple of quarters right around 500.
And that includes finished and under construction.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then on the capital raising that you discussed earlier if you did decide to do an equity offering is there a functional way that you can protect the entire value of the DTA and not have to run into things like IRS Section 382 rules where you would potentially lose some of the value of the DTAs or a functional way to do that? Or are you putting it or a portion of it at risk if you all do an equity issuance? Number one that's a very valuable asset for our company the DTA and we would not take any strategies to put that at risk.
We have plenty of room on the equity side if we chose to go down that path and again this is speculation and a what-if answer.
If we did choose to go down that path we'd have plenty of room without putting any of that at risk.
LLC</strong> Okay great.
Moving on to Josh Levin with Citi.
You talked about the possibility of a near-term monetization for the South Edge land that you might want to ideally maybe match up with the cash flow out.
You're carrying that land at $75 million.
So if we're trying to think about potential cash flow in for monetizing that land in the near term is $75 million in? Is that sort of a reasonable -- are we in the right ballpark? Yes.
I mean you're thinking of it the right way.
I mean when you're thinking about some monetization coming off the South Edge situation you compare more to the land value than to the obligation.
Okay.
And you said you expected to return to profitability in the fourth quarter.
Can you sort of share what assumptions you're making about your ability to get to that prediction or that forecast? It's just improvements in all financial metrics.
I mean increased deliveries increased margin and more SG&amp;A are the primary drivers.
It also supposes better capitalized interest is up a bit this quarter as we have it on our inventory and our active inventory.
So I think a combination of all the factors gives us some confidence in talking about the fourth quarter.
And the next question will come from Adam Rudiger with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC</strong> I don't want to beat a dead horse here but I wanted to go back to the gross margin if I could.
I'm a little bit confused because you said that costs have basically remained flat and you've attributed a lot of the decline to volume.
But if I look at for example your first quarter of last year when you had almost a 19% gross margin you actually had lower home sales revenue than you had this quarter.
So I'm just curious to know really what's changed versus last year and what's really driving that? Because last year you were humming along pretty well with a 18% 19% gross margin and then first 3 quarters of this year it's really low plummeted.
So if could you just shed any light on that that would be helpful.
Sure.
Yes there was a -- on a year-over-year basis we talked a lot about quarter-to-quarter in the prepared remarks.
In the press release we did compare the year-over-year.
We did see some competitive pricing pressure on a year-over-year basis and if you think about the first 2 quarters of last year with the tax credit incentive out in the marketplace pricing held up very well and in some cases it was actually up.
So that moved backwards as we went through 2010.
We didn't really see much decline Q1 to Q2 sequentially but if you start looking at it year-over-year you have a different dynamic.
We also had mix shifts that impacted the margin on a year-over-year basis as well.
So those 2 things are more significant factors in the 2011 versus 2010 comparison as opposed to the sequential.
LLC</strong> Can you elaborate on what the mix shift was? It's really for us it's a mix between not only between regions but between communities and we'll have a higher-performing communities with higher margins and as those close out we close out a lot of those communities in the fourth quarter.
We talked about that during the first quarter call and you have a shift in relative community profitability and what you have in your sales mix and delivery mix.
We'll move on to Mike Widner with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> I don't want to beat the South Edge horse to death either but just wondering if you could talk a little bit about the assumptions there.
So the land is presumably at a $75 million valuation is what you're assuming.
As I understand it you're assuming you'll bring on about 650 additional acres there.
Just wondering if you could talk about how that implied valuation compares to what you're already carrying land in the active Inspirada community if that's sort of an apples-to-apples comparison if the carrying values are the same? And then second if you could talk about sort of the profitability of that you mentioned the sales pace was solid but you haven't really mentioned anything about the profitability there.
Yes.
In our valuation model on the South Edge land we did a valuation model very consistent with how we value other parcels in our portfolio and the margins contained within that valuation model are very solid compared to the company average.
So on a go-forward basis we think we have that about right.
On the land valuation itself they're not really comparable to carrying values versus the land at South Edge because most of the land in front of us in South Edge is to be developed land.
The land that we have in the portfolio obviously is we were buying finished lots from the joint venture as part of KB Home so they're not comparable directly between the 2.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Certainly not directly comparable but I mean you have plenty of experience there over the past number of years in what the actual development costs are and so I mean I wouldn't think that it would be terribly difficult to do a conversion between raw land and existing land just by using your historic cost experience in developing that land.
Right.
I apologize I don't have those numbers in front of me on the current carrying value of the lots there in South Edge but we did analyze the land including the number of factors on the settlement.
The valuation you're right in what you're saying it's around 600 acres that we have out there in front of us and we did a very comprehensive valuation model on it.
Nishu Sood from Deutsche Bank has the next question.
Just wanted to get some clarity on the statement you were making earlier about operational cash flow being positive in the second half of the year.
Just to be clear that's after the $560 million you have budgeted for land spend for the year.
Is that correct? Yes that's correct.
We include land spread as part of the operation of cash flow.
I did specifically exclude the South Edge out of that number...
Of course of course.
And the restricted cash how did the covenants develop as the year goes on supposing that things begin to get a little bit better? So does that kind of ease as well as things go along here? I'm not sure what you mean by covenants.
Just the -- I imagine that the restrictions on the cash or from the debt side are...
The restrictions that's basically collateral on either land LCs [ph] or maturity bonds.
I mean that's the bulk of it.
Moving onto David Goldberg with UBS.
I wanted to ask a question if I can about the purchase in San Antonio.
And Jeff it seems to me you talked in the kind of opening commentary about the different markets that are developing between new homes non-distressed existing homes and distressed existing homes.
And it seems to me the key to kind of keeping some pricing on the new home market relative to rest of the broader housing market is being able to identify and find these lots in better areas that people want to live where there's less foreclosure inventory and everything right? So what I'm trying to get an idea of is in the San Antonio deal how many other builders were bidding for this company's assets? What do you think you paid for land relative to replacement costs? And how difficult just more generally is it to find land in these areas where there's not huge bidding wars going on right now? Good questions David.
As I said in the prepared comments we really like this acquisition.
It complements very nicely with our business in San Antonio.
And these 3 markets that I touched on if you go back a couple of years ago a lot of the foreclosure sales were more weighted to owner-occupied buyers and we had to come up with ways to compete with foreclosures not just what we call traditional resales.
And what we're now seeing emerge is the desire to own the foreclosure if the owner occupied has waned and we don't have to get our pricing down competitive with this what I call the foreclosure churn because we don't care if we cater to the investor.
In fact we don't want to.
So let them keep cleaning out the inventory on the foreclosure side and we've been able to position our product where it's competitively priced with the traditional resales and typically a great opportunity versus the other new homebuilders.
So that there's this niche that's developed where you can hover above the foreclosure churn and do just fine.
In the case of the acquisition in San Antonio I don't know what the percentage would be of replacement value.
I do believe we add a discount to that.
I know that there were other builders that looked at it.
I don't know how many.
I don't think it was a full frenzy public auction approach.
They talked to a few that they knew could perform.
And in our case with the franchise we have in San Antonio where we are extremely efficient and build at very solid cost per foot because of the network we have with the contractors and the product series the Open Series we were able to underwrite this and it's a great combination of solid lot position instant revenue almost because it will hit early in '12.
But it's a nice deal for us.
I don't think there's a lot of them out there but it's an example of when one falls in front of you you can move.
Got it.
And then just one quick follow-up here.
Obviously with the FHA approval lenders have the ability to overlay obviously more restrictive covenants than what's mandated by HUD and I think we all know they've been doing that for a while maybe 640 650 FICO scores now.
And I'm wondering if you could talk about with your experience in the market are you seeing that any kind of movement from FHA-approved lenders to do stuff at lower FICOS maybe closer to 580 that the HUD's mandating now? Yes.
I think the underwriting standards are still much more difficult than they were in '06 or '05 and those really haven't changed.
I do think there was a pendulum swing where the banks last fall were nervous and were -- the pendulum swung to really tightening down on the documentation and the papering far more than we had seen in some time.
I think we've seen a slight easing from how rigorous it became.
It's still very rigorous so it's a relative thing and I think you'll see that stay around for a while.
But we've learned how to operate within those confinements.
It's just my concern would be whether they tighten the underwriting further on FHA or Fannie or Freddie and that's up to the government.
But where it's at today it's difficult but you can navigate within it.
Ladies and gentlemen we have time for one additional question which will come from Buck Horne with Raymond James.
Inc.</strong> I just wanted to maybe go back to the high level again here Jeff.
You made several statements recently just indicating that you think the biggest reason buyers are still on the sidelines is the lack of confidence or uncertainty in the economy.
And I'm just wondering if you could kind of articulate more specifically what you're seeing that tells you that confidence is really the key issue as opposed to some of these other more tangible factors like inability to sell their existing house or these new more stringent mortgage underwriting rules or lack of adequate downpayment or some other factor like that? Sure.
The inability to sell a home is an issue but we're still 65% first time so it's not the biggest part of our business.
I do think until prices firm up more and go in the other direction that you'll have this built-in cap on those people that may be underwater on their mortgage.
But what we're seeing is a lack of urgency to do anything.
I've shared on a couple of presentations or panels that I participated on.
We did a survey in Vegas of people who had been to our models had the downpayment in the bank and were prequalified to purchase a home and didn't own at this time.
And 35% of them were waiting for the next tax credit so there's no urgency there and 30% of them were waiting for prices to come down further.
So 65% of them had absolutely no urgency to make a home buying decision at this time.
It's offset by people that are confident in their jobs or their personal situation and see the incredible opportunities that are out there on the affordability side.
So I think if you can get a little consumer confidence back and the numbers yesterday went down so it's a concern.
If you get consumer confidence back it's typically tied to the employment environment out there and between jobs and consumer confidence you'll see demand come back.
Inc.</strong> And have you made any decisions on disclosing active community counts or how you want to define that going forward? Or can we expect any supplemental data on that front? Yes.
I think what we're doing we'll continue the practice that we've been giving you guys which is the pluses and the expectations for the remainder of the year.
Like Jeff talked about the 45 to 50 range is a pretty good number for us in the second half.
There's enough sources out there I think from whatever website counts and everything else that some of you guys publish where at this point in time we're going to continue with our current practice.
It's very unpredictable on the closeouts and that's the part that as we forecast going forward trying to forecast closeouts for communities is one issue and the second one is just trying to get back and having a consistent history.
But certainly the methodology where we looked at it and it was tied to volume is an issue that you probably won't see us continue on.
Mr.
Mezger that concludes our Q&amp;A session.
I'll turn things back to you for closing or additional remarks.
All right thanks Kelsey.
Thank you very much everyone for your participation on today's call.
While the recovery may not always be smooth or predictable we believe KB Home is on a right path to leverage our leadership position in our markets harness the talent of our team and steadily improve our financial results going forward.
Thank you again.
Everyone have a great day and also have a great Fourth of July weekend.
Hope to talk to you all soon.
Thank you.
And again ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today.
We thank you all for your participation.
Good day everyone.
Welcome to KB Home's 2011 Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference call is being recorded and webcast on KB Home's website at kbhome.com.
The recording will be available via telephone replay until midnight Eastern Time on September 30 2011 by calling (719) 457-0820 and using the replay passcode of 6973133.
A replay will also be available through KB Home's website for 30 days.
KB Home's discussion today may include certain predictions and other forward-looking statements that reflect management's current expectations or forecasts of market and economic conditions and of the company's business activities prospects strategies and financial and operational results.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance and due to a number of risk uncertainties and other factors outside of its control KB Home's actual results could be materially different from those expressed in or implied by the forward-looking statements.
Many of these risk factors are identified in KB Home's filings with the SEC which the company urges you to read with care.
The discussion today may also include references to non-GAAP financial measures as defined in Regulation G.
The reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and other Regulation G required information is provided in the company's earnings release issued earlier today which is posted on the Investor Relations page of the company's website under Recent Releases and through the financial information news releases link on the right-hand side of the page.
I'll now turn the conference over to Mr.
Jeff Mezger.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Melanie and good morning everyone.
I'd like to thank you all for joining us today to discuss the results of our third quarter of 2011.
With me this morning are Jeff Kaminski our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Bill Hollinger our Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer.
While we all know current economic conditions remain difficult one very encouraging trend that gained momentum in the third quarter was the growing number of homebuyers who are recognizing the extraordinary value and affordability inherent in today's housing market.
This suggests that the stabilization process continues although we will not have a full housing recovery without job growth and consumer confidence.
In the short term we are managing the current market realities but we look forward to the point in time in which intrinsic demographic trends and economic expansion will inevitably move housing from a stabilizing environment to a growth environment once again.
What I would like to focus on during this call is the strategy we are continuing to adhere to at KB Home in order to maneuver successfully within this environment to achieve profitability and to position our company for growth in the years ahead.
This strategy which we have been executing over many quarters includes reinvesting in highly desirable submarkets primarily in our targeted growth states of California and Texas; lowering our overhead levels and cost to build; and maintaining a balance sheet that both supports our current business and provides flexibility for future opportunities.
Most importantly our results demonstrate that our strategy is working and that we are making tangible progress toward our goal of profitability.
In fact despite the ongoing headwinds in the market many of the key metrics of our business are now trending in a positive direction.
We have substantially lowered our break-even point while establishing a sales pace that is setting us up for a brighter future.
So while the markets are not necessarily getting better we are better as a company.
And although we remain cautious in the current environment the improvements in our results give us confidence that we are on the right path.
One of the primary drivers of our investment strategy and improved results is our deliberate weighting of resources and investment dollars to California and Texas.
As we have shared on previous calls since the beginning of 2009 over 75% of our land acquisition and development dollars have been going into these 2 states each of which has its own intrinsic demand dynamics.
Regarding California there is a different housing picture in the coastal regions than the one you see in the more inland regions of the state.
From the Bay Area to Orange County and San Diego the demand for new homes in these desirable markets was never met in the boom years.
People have always wanted to live in these attractive areas near jobs transit recreation and good schools.
And those who could not previously afford to are now coming back to buy.
These are submarkets where prices are stable supply and demand are in balance there are fewer foreclosures and new home competition is limited.
As the coasts have stabilized and continued to improve we would expect this positive trend to move out eventually to more of the commuter-oriented inland areas of California where we are also well positioned.
While California sales are being driven by demographics and affordability in Texas it is jobs and consumer confidence that are creating demand particularly in Austin and San Antonio.
In these 2 cities we are seeing inventory imbalance less foreclosure pressure and a more favorable pricing environment.
Within our Texas business our product offerings are appealing to higher income first-time and move-up buyers.
These buyers have a strong preference to own a new home and little interest in the headache and hassle associated with buying a foreclosure.
As we reported last quarter a great illustration of our growth strategy in Texas was our sizable acquisition of 1 900 lots in 11 communities in San Antonio from Fieldstone Homes.
I'm pleased to report that several new communities resulting from this acquisition will have models open in the fourth quarter and these communities are expected to provide approximately 300 to 400 deliveries in fiscal 2012.
Even though we have prioritized California and Texas there are still pockets of opportunity we are capitalizing on in many of our other markets.
While our investment in these other markets is more measured it is still the same strategy of opportunistically acquiring lots in A locations close to job centers transportation and good schools.
We are maintaining this larger growth footprint for the future as we believe demand for new homes in these cities will return as the economy recovers.
I would emphasize however that we are not being overly aggressive in our land investment.
As always we have strict financial hurdles and strategic parameters in place based on our disciplined KBnxt Built to Order business model.
It is not easy to find lots in these more land-constrained submarkets but we have strong tenured land teams on the ground who are successfully identifying land opportunities that we know will perform well based on their attractive location and solid market fundamentals.
The $1.1 billion we have invested in land and development over the past 2 years has served to transform our product and community positioning.
Our lot count is down slightly year-over-year while inventory dollars have increased reinforcing that we have moved in the higher price submarkets in desirable cities with product that is favorably priced.
Turning now to our results I am pleased to report that many of our third quarter financial metrics including deliveries gross margin and SG&amp;A percentages all continued their sequential improvement since the beginning of 2011.
We reported positive operating income in the third quarter and our bottom line results improved dramatically from the second quarter of 2011.
While our deliveries were lower year-over-year due in part to the extraordinary tax credit influence of 2010 we were within range of the same net income result.
This demonstrates that the combination of higher sales price and reduced overhead is essentially lowering our break-even point and positioning our company to achieve profitability.
Another highlight of the quarter was our sales pace.
Net orders were 1 838 a 40% increase over the prior year period with particularly strong comps in July and August.
Year-over-year sales were higher in all 4 of our operating regions.
Our California divisions which are a major part of our overall business have performed particularly well together posting comps that were over 70% higher than the prior year.
I also want to make special mention of our Las Vegas division where our team is doing a terrific job and achieved an 80% increase in sales over last year while operating in a difficult environment.
Our Las Vegas division continues to generate among the highest sales rates per community in the company.
Not only are we experiencing stronger sales in comparison to the weak post-tax credit levels of last year we are also seeing the added benefit of sales from our new community openings.
We opened over 60 communities in the first half of 2011 and another 33 in the third quarter bringing our total community count opened for sale at quarter end to 233 a 10% increase over last year.
We have supported these new openings with an increased investment in marketing and advertising that highlights the advantages of our Built to Order homes and industry-leading energy-efficient products versus resale homes.
As these new communities come online our homebuyer profile is shifting to higher income first-time buyers and move-up buyers who are responding to our unique Built to Order product positioning in the more expensive highly desirable submarkets.
In the process and underscoring this trend we are seeing increases in the average square footage selling price and studio revenue per home.
Also during the quarter we continued to steadily rebuild our Built to Order backlog which was up 22% over the prior year and like our sales was higher in all 4 of our operating regions.
Our backlog levels have improved sequentially throughout 2011.
We remain committed to our Built to Order business model for the many benefits it offers to our business and our customers.
As we have efficiently reduced our cycle time to just over 4 months from contract to close our buyers are more than happy to make the choice to buy a brand new Built to Order KB Home over other new home inventory or a resale home.
As we continue to refine our emphasis on our targeted markets we are adjusting our overhead levels to reflect this strategy.
We have been leveraging our resources and overhead in our priority markets while continuing to reduce overhead and investment elsewhere.
Our ongoing approach is to bring our costs into alignment with the market realities of today while not giving up the growth platform we need for tomorrow.
At the same time we remain dedicated to maintaining ample liquidity to support our current business to be opportunistic in our markets and to fuel future growth.
We are comfortable with our cash position and have confidence in our ability to generate cash as the $1.1 billion in land investments we have made over the last 2 years flows back into the business as revenue.
Before we turn to our financial highlights I would like to say a few words about what we believe are KB Home's true differentiators in the marketplace.
First among these is our Built to Order process which I've already touched on that is more relevant than ever especially as our buyer's profile evolves in the higher income first-time and move-up buyers.
Built to Order combines the choices of a custom homebuilding experience with the efficiencies of a high-volume builder.
All KB Homes come with great standard features and consumers then choose and pay for only the customized options that they want.
Our steady pace of studio sales throughout the downturn and the recent increase in these sales shows us that this model continues to be valued by the consumer.
Our third quarter studio revenue per home was the highest it has been in over 2 years.
KB Home's industry-leading energy-efficiency initiatives are a natural extension of our Built to Order model and a great selling point with consumers.
All KB Homes are ENERGY STAR qualified and come with our proprietary Energy Performance Guide that shows consumers their estimated monthly energy bill for their new KB Home as well as their estimated monthly energy savings compared to a typical resale home.
Importantly we have worked closely with our product design and suppliers to ensure that these improvements in energy efficiency are not making our homes more expensive to build or to buy.
As a result our standard homes can potentially offer incredible savings in energy bills as much as 45% versus homes that are not ENERGY STAR qualified which can translate directly into either more home buying power or additional discretionary spending for our customers.
Recently we have added even more energy efficiency options that buyers can choose as they customize their home in our studio process.
We have expanded our popular solar program in Southern Cal where currently almost 70% of our communities include solar power as a standard or optional feature and have started offering this program in select Austin communities as well.
Last week we launched the first KB communities in the country that feature our new ZeroHouse 2.0 a net-zero energy home option that may eliminate the home buyer's monthly electricity charges entirely.
The initial openings were met with tremendous response bringing out hundreds of interested consumers.
This is the next evolution of our Built to Order model and truly a major differentiator over resale.
On another note we have successfully transitioned into our new marketing agreement with MetLife Homes -- Home Loans and believe that they will be a critical partner in serving our customers going forward.
Finally I want to say a quick word about our South Edge joint venture in Las Vegas.
We are cautiously optimistic that the reorganization plan which was proposed by the majority of the builders and the banking group will be approved and confirmed by the court.
We anticipate this will occur in the fourth quarter of 2011 or potentially early in the first quarter 2012.
We look forward to full resolution and ownership of this valuable asset in a very land-constrained market.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jeff Kaminski who will provide more detail on our financials.
Jeff? Thank you.
As Jeff mentioned many of the key financial metrics of our business are moving in the right direction.
We spoke of this positive momentum during the second quarter call as we felt the improvement of our underlying operations would significantly enhance our future financial results.
I'm now pleased to summarize the results for the recently completed quarter.
KB Home's net loss in the third quarter 2011 was $9.6 million or $0.13 per diluted share a substantial improvement over the net loss of $68.5 million or $0.89 per share reported in the second quarter 2011.
KB Home reported a loss of $1.4 million or $0.02 per share in the prior year's third quarter.
Our results included $1.2 million of impairments in land option abandonments in the third quarter of 2011 compared to $20.6 million in the second quarter of 2011 and $3.4 million of such charges in the year-ago third quarter.
We were also pleased to report positive operating income of $1.4 million in the third quarter 2011.
We delivered 1 603 homes in the quarter a 31% decrease from the 2 320 homes delivered in the third quarter of 2010 which was favorably impacted by the federal tax credit.
Our average selling price is $227 400 an increase of over 6% as compared to both the $214 200 in the same quarter last year and the $213 400 in the second quarter of 2011.
This reflects our ongoing strategy of repositioning our business in higher-priced submarkets.
Revenues were $367 million compared to $501 million in the third quarter of 2010 and $272 million in Q2 of 2011.
At quarter end our backlog stood at 2 657 homes representing a 22% unit improvement over the 2 169 homes we had in backlog a year ago and a 10% improvement over the 2 422 homes we had in backlog at the end of last quarter.
Housing gross margin excluding impairments and land option abandonments was 17.2% of housing revenues in Q3 2011 compared to 14.9% in the second quarter and 18.2% in the same period of the prior year.
The decline as compared to the prior year was the result of shifts in product mix and reduced leverage from our lower volume of homes delivered partly offset by the positive impact of $7.4 million of warranty adjustments.
We expect that margins in the fourth quarter will be up sequentially from the third quarter 2011.
Our selling general and administrative expenses in the third quarter were $60.2 million versus $78.6 million in the same quarter the prior year and $62.5 million in the second quarter of this year.
In addition to the ongoing cost cutting efforts that Jeff mentioned we received a net benefit from the recovery of legal expenses from insurance carriers in the quarter.
Now turning to our balance sheet.
In relation to our accounting for South Edge we reevaluated and made no adjustment to either the $226 million liability or the $75 million valuation of the underlying land.
The resulting net obligation as of quarter end remained at $100 million.
Our land and land development investments in the third quarter were approximately $106 million and we continue to anticipate our total investment for fiscal 2011 will be approximately $550 million including the South Edge land investments of $75 million.
We ended the quarter with total cash of approximately $591 million slightly favorable to our internal projections and we reiterate our prior guidance of total cash at year end of over $500 million after funding the South Edge-related obligations previously mentioned.
Finally as planned we paid off $100 million of debt that matured in the quarter as part of our balanced approach to navigating the current environment.
This action along with an additional $89 million of other year-to-date debt repayments will result in annualized reductions in interest incurred of nearly $9 million.
Now I will turn the call back over to Jeff Mezger for some final remarks.
Thanks Jeff.
Although macroeconomic conditions continue to be turbulent we are successfully repositioning our company to achieve profitability.
Our targeted investments in coastal California and Texas are paying off in the form of higher prices increased sales and higher margins.
This stronger community positioning in healthier submarkets when combined with our lower overhead and value-engineered Open Series product offerings has positioned us well for the future.
We believe our company is poised for upside as our carefully chosen local markets continue to improve and our customers take advantage of our unique Built to Order offerings our industry-leading energy efficiency initiatives and historic levels of housing affordability.
I would like to thank all of our employees across the country who have been working tirelessly to execute our strategy day in and day out.
I recognize the total team effort that is required and I appreciate everyone's talents and contributions.
As we head into the fourth quarter we anticipate that our positive sequential and year-over-year momentum will continue in many key metrics.
As a result we are positioned to achieve a profitable fourth quarter of 2011.
With regard to sales assuming housing market conditions stay as they are we currently anticipate another meaningful increase in net orders in the fourth quarter when compared to the prior year.
Our average selling price will increase sequentially and year-over-year as well.
Most importantly we expect to end the year with a substantially higher backlog than we did entering 2011 and are confident that this hard-earned momentum will continue into next year.
We look forward to updating you on all of these topics at our year-end call.
While we're pleased with our progress we are mindful of the headwinds that still exist in our industry.
KB Home has managed through many housing downturns in our 50-plus years in business and we intend to continue to leverage that experience as we work diligently to drive profitability.
And now we will open it up to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Bob Wetenhall with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Could you just comment on your conversion rate and how you see that trending in next quarter? Bob are you referring to backlog conversion or sales conversion or what? LLC Research Division</strong> Backlog conversion.
I think you guys were at 66% in the quarter.
And I wanted to see if you thought it would go down or be in line with that going into 4Q.
I think that's a reasonable range for going forward.
And it's a combination of things Bob.
We're reloading our Built to Order backlog as I shared in my comments which will include a portion that is not yet started at any given time.
So you won't see us exceed 100% in a quarter or close to that like other builders because we're not converting specs.
Last year in our fourth quarter we were at 88% which was on the high side.
But with our build time you can assume a 4-month build time from contract to close or 4-month cycle time which equates to a 66% 70% conversion.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just one quick follow-up.
Can you provide any color on traffic trends since the end of the quarter? Well I'm not going to comment on September because our reports are only 16 days old so I'd hate to get into that one again.
But I can tell you we ended the fourth -- or the third quarter with momentum and our traffic throughout the quarter was significantly higher than the prior year.
And we'll go next to David Goldberg with UBS.
It's actually Michael Clark [ph] on for David.
It seems like your sale pace is ahead of your competitors’.
Would you agree with that statement? And also how do you benchmark your sales pace versus the rest of the market? Well relative to the recently reported sales our comp was certainly stronger than some of the other numbers that I've seen.
But Michael I continue to look at our biggest competitor as resale.
And if you look at the strategy we’ve deployed where we're doing rifle-shot investment in desirable communities there's not as much new home competition in those locations as there would be in more of what I always refer to as the food court where all the builders are out there.
So we track each asset we manage it to what I call optimize that asset and we'll pace the sales rate and margin to the investment for what makes us the most money and the best returns.
And most of our pricing is tracked to the resale environment in that submarket.
Great okay.
Thanks for that color.
Also I'm wondering about the use of outside realtors.
How does your commission structure compare for external agents versus your employees? And also what percentage of your sales would you say comes from them? Yes Michael we're very friendly with the realtors.
They're a vital part of our business and have been for decades.
The commission rate will vary per city and we peg it to what the going rate is in that market.
We don't throw a lot of commission incentives out to try to attract more realtors.
We find that if we take care of their customer and deliver on our promise the market rate commission works just fine.
And it's typically higher than our internal commission.
I don't like to give you one number because it varies around our system from division to division and community to community.
We'll take our next question from Michael Smith with JMP Securities.
Research Division</strong> So first of all just a quick housekeeping question to make sure I understand this.
As far as the warranty adjustment that was included in the gross margin that's essentially you guys looking back at warranty claims on previous deliveries and adjusting what you think warranty claims will be on future deliveries and that impacts the gross margin on what you delivered this quarter? Yes that's correct.
Every quarter we review all of our reserves in accordance with GAAP.
We did the same thing this quarter.
As we reevaluated the reserve on the warranty we found that based on our past experience and really based on what we anticipate for the future that we had a bit too much in the reserve.
We took a really close look at it this quarter especially given that we pretty much winded down the drywall the Chinese drywall issues in our Southeast region.
And though there are still some lingering homes to be repaired and some investigations to go through pretty much that's behind us and given that we took a very hard look and made the reserve adjustment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it wouldn't really be fair to characterize it as sort of a one-time item? I mean it can change back obviously depending on what ends up happening with future warranty claims but it's not like a one-time benefit that's not quite fair right? I don't like using the words one-time on adjustments that we need to make regularly.
We've taken expense relating to that adjustment in prior quarters so the reserve didn't get there out of nowhere and it was adjusted now based on our experience levels.
And we think it came greatly as a result of efforts we've made internally not only to build quality homes but to keep our repair costs down and to really manage the warranty expense as a company.
So there was a lot of effort that went into that.
And we'll continue to evaluate it every quarter.
And it can move up or down on a quarterly basis.
In our normal margin we take a set percentage and we reserve appropriately on our current sales.
And like I said you pause at the end of every quarter and do an overall assessment.
Research Division</strong> Okay that helps.
And then second question is just on land spend for 2012.
As far as I know you guys haven't given any guidance on that yet.
But I'm just wondering if you can speak a little bit about kind of walking us through what you're thinking or how that process will take place as far as deciding on what land spend will look like in 2012.
I mean is anything -- I mean this was a pretty strong quarter for you guys order-wise and on the sales pace and your thinking over the last month or 2 seeing the strength in July and August change.
And then also how does some of the liquidity questions that are out there figure into that land spend for 2012? And just any color you can give on thinking for that would be helpful.
Michael I can speak to that.
As I shared in the comments we've now spent $1.1 billion in the last 2 years on land acquisition and land development and that is now starting to reward us nicely with the trajectory that we've shared in our many metrics.
And frankly our land spend going forward will be tied to our sales experience in every city and what type of opportunities we find in the cities that are strategically a priority for us right now.
In these land-constrained markets it's not like you can flip a switch and go buy a lot on every corner they're just not out there.
So you have to constantly be mining the environment and especially in coastal California most of the transactions we do are not competitively bid in the marketplace.
There’s things that we have found through our relationship that may not even hit the market and we negotiate at a local level like that.
So the sales pace will drive the land spend.
And as I shared in our comments we're comfortable with our cash we have the ability to support our business and also continue to be opportunistic as things go forward.
Past that we'll probably give some guidance on '12 spend at our year-end call.
We'll take our next question from Dan Oppenheim with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering you've talked about -- a lot about the West Coast in California and it looks to be about 1/2 of the new order dollars you're bringing right now.
It seems to be a fairly heated land market right now though.
How are you looking at that in terms of future communities and such and approaching that? Dan you broke up a little bit.
Was your word fairly heated land market? Research Division</strong> Yes yes.
I would say that's not the case right now.
The land markets have actually softened from -- we saw a little bit of feeding frenzy in the spring of '10 but they've rationalized quite well.
And in coastal California as I just mentioned to the previous question a lot of the transactions that we tie up never hit the market.
It's a very local relationship business and we have land people on the ground that have been with our company for over 20 years in those markets.
So we continue to find ample opportunity as evidenced by the $100 million we spent in the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then second question somewhat relatedly if we look at the capital there's some questions on the last call and then you put out a press release after it and you just had a filing more recently.
Can you just give your thoughts in terms of your -- where you -- how you think about your balance sheet now after South Edge going forward and such and your plans there? Okay.
I'll let Jeff give a little color but I'd first like to again reiterate that we're comfortable with our guidance on the cash position at year end after South Edge.
And we'll continue to support our business today and be opportunistic for tomorrow.
And the $500 million in cash at year end it provides all the firepower we need to continue to run the business.
Jeff you got any other color you want to add on? Yes just a little bit of color on the filing.
The filing was just a renewal.
We had a shelf registration that had been out there for almost 3 years.
They have a 3-year life so it was just a normal renewal of shelf and there should be nothing really read into that other than just want to maintain the shelf; we just think it’s good practice.
And we'll go next to Joshua Pollard with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> You guys talked about positioning in higher-priced submarkets but it's unclear if you're still going after the first-time home buyer in those markets or if you're inherently shifting to a move up buyer.
Can you talk about what's happening on your I'll say your base customer? And also talk about your medium- to long-term view of the lower-priced market and the first-time home buyer.
Sure.
Good question Josh.
And we're -- I don't know that our targeted buyer profile has changed because we've always been first-time and first move up.
Our price points are going up because of the submarkets where we're finding opportunities.
And we have communities up in the Bay Area that are more than 50% first-time where the average sales price is $600 000 or $700 000 yet it's still a first-time buyer.
And then you have communities in Texas where the first or second move-up buyer is $200 000.
So the beauty in our business model is we tie up the asset and with our product array there's enough flexibility that we can respond and offer to whoever the demand is there.
And if it's the first-time buyer it would tilt to bigger homes and if it's -- I'm sorry first move-up buyer it would tilt to bigger homes and if it's the first-time buyer it will tilt a little to smaller homes.
So our strategy hasn't changed.
The submarkets drive a little higher ASP.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then you gave a pretty thorough view of what you thought what happened in the fourth quarter as far as your sales profitability.
But the sort of big piece missing was the gross margins.
Are you expecting sequential improvement in gross margin? And can you talk about whether that sequential improvement or not includes or excludes the warranty claims? Okay.
Jeff can talk to gross margin.
I believe in our prepared comments we shared that we expect sequential improvement into the fourth quarter.
Yes it's true.
We do expect sequential improvement.
We see more deliveries coming from our new communities out into the fourth quarter we believe that will help and yes we'll stand by that guidance.
We will take our next question from Ivy Zelman with Zelman &amp; Associates.
It's Alan on for Ivy.
Jeff just to kind of follow up quickly on that gross margin.
So the sequential improvement is off of this quarter's reported number? The one that includes that benefit from the warranty adjustment? That's correct.
Okay.
On the land side it looks like I think you said this quarter it was $106 million.
If I look back at the prior 2 quarters that had been running a bit higher maybe about $150 million per quarter.
I think you said $300 million through the first half.
So just curious if that was -- the reduction there was by design to kind of manage the cash position or if it was a function of fewer deals that you're seeing out in the marketplace.
Yes Alan I think it's a function of all the above.
We're always going to be mindful of our cash and our balance sheet tied to our business.
If you look back over the year in the first and second quarter our sales weren't as strong.
And my hunch is the teams didn't have as much of an appetite for continued land acquisition because they had to work through the inventory that they'd built up.
And with the increase in sales now you may see a delay in the time it takes to bring deals through the system and close.
In the future you would have to do more land activity to support the higher sales rate if they continue.
So I think it moves up and down with the delay to whatever your selling experience is.
However with our internal planning for '12 we've pretty much identified and controlled all the lots we need for our '12 plan right now.
And we'll continue to pull the levers of cash spend lot count sales pace keep everything in balance.
We'll take our next question from Michael Rehaut with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question I was hoping to get a little bit better color in terms of the order trends during the quarter.
At the end of your last call you had mentioned that June was moderately up and I think you again kind of maybe inherently referred to that in saying that July and August really picked up.
If it's possible just to kind of give a month-by-month year-over-year improvement color.
And also you had mentioned Las Vegas doing extremely well in the Southwest region.
Given that Arizona is the other part of that I was wondering if you can kind of fill in the blank in terms of if Arizona was up or down or just up slightly.
Well that's your 2 questions in one Michael.
As I shared in the comments July and August were particularly strong for us.
In fact the August comp was actually higher than July and we had momentum coming out of the quarter.
And it's a great example of how you can fall in the trap if you share just a one-month trend because June wasn't anywhere near the strength that we saw in July and August yet the comments we made on June influenced everybody's view of where our sales were headed and it obviously turned out to be much better than frankly anybody out there expected and we're pleased with our results.
So July and August we have momentum and traffic was up and our new communities continued to perform and gained traction quite nicely.
I don't know that any color -- Arizona's a small part of our business Michael.
It's a great example where -- we haven't invested a lot in Arizona because the market had been so turbulent and difficult it's hard to get comfortable.
And our community count and our asset level continues to go down.
I don't have the number but my general sense is Phoenix and Tucson were down year-over-year and Las Vegas was up a bunch.
We'll take our next question from Adam Rudiger with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I want to go back to the gross margin for a second.
Excluding the warranty adjustment it looks like on a sequential basis it was pretty flat maybe like a 30-basis point improvement and I would have expected a little bit more operating leverage there.
So can you touch on that? And then given that can you talk about why you're expecting then maybe a 250-basis point or more improvement excluding the warranty adjustment going into the fourth quarter? Yes I think as everybody knows the sales in the third quarter came from earlier orders in the year.
So we had a pretty tough selling environment in the first and second quarter of this year that translated into the third quarter deliveries.
Deliveries in the third quarter were a huge success.
And the sequential improvement was there it was a second quarter sequential improvement.
Modest as you term it without the adjustment pretty good improvement as reported.
And there was various factors in there.
In the third quarter the deliveries less than 20% of those deliveries came from openings in 2011.
We had 27 community closeouts in the quarter.
And obviously as you're trying to get out of communities and take down some of your expenses including selling marketing and construction costs generally you do compromise a little bit on the margin in order to get a better overall financial result as you exit those communities.
So with 27 exits in the quarter that definitely had some impact.
What we're seeing in our new openings we're seeing 200 to 300 basis points of improvement versus our older communities.
And as that percentage of deliveries coming from our newly opened communities increases in the fourth quarter we're pretty optimistic about the margin.
And we're definitely going to continue to push this.
It's an important factor for the company.
We're pretty happy with our new land performance in the new communities we opened.
I think we saw a very strong reinforcement of that during the third quarter with our order rate and we're very very pleased with that order rate and very pleased with the new community performance.
So like I said we're going to continue to push it out into the rest of the year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then can you clarify how much the SG&amp;A benefited this quarter from the I think you said insurance recoveries? Yes.
We had -- we highlighted that one particular item because it was a rather large adjustment.
We did not highlight some of the other negatives that hit us every quarter and that you have to compensate for.
So there were a number of smaller things offsetting it.
In total the insurance recovery was about $8 million and that was coming off of some of the basically elevated expenses that we saw last year.
So again it's not another freebie as I think often people like to look at these things.
I mean it was hard work to get it.
It was a recovery of the expenses that we ran through the P&amp;L in 2010 for the most part and we were pleased to have that.
I was going to add to this comment that the important thing is that every quarter we have pluses and minuses.
There's always these miscellaneous adjustments up and down whether it's to margin or to SG&amp;A and we've called out these 2 whether SG&amp;A or the warranty on margin because they were a little larger and substantial enough to flag them.
And we're not calling out every little miscellaneous one.
$7 million on the revenue we had in Q3 has more of a ratio impact than $7 million at a higher revenue would have.
And as we continue to build our backlog and expect a higher revenue trajectory it helps both of these ratios further.
Small adjustments become a big percentage.
We will take our next question from Josh Levin with Citi.
Research Division</strong> So you said you wanted -- you're going to finish the year with $500 million of cash.
And as you go into the spring I guess the spring -- the first half of the year is seasonally when you tend to use cash.
So if you look in the first half of '11 you used about $280 million of cash.
The first half of '10 you used about $113 million of cash.
So as we think about going into 2012 and the seasonal use of cash should we think that maybe your cash balance drops to $300 million in the spring? Is that I mean am I thinking about this correctly? Well there's a couple of things I want to point out on the cash.
Number one we typically end the year with a very strong quarter.
Last year with a lower delivery expectation or where we had lower deliveries than we expect for this year's fourth quarter we ended with almost $210 million of operating cash flow prior to land investment.
So we're looking forward to that in Q4.
We stand by our guidance on the over $500 million and we're very confident we're going to get there.
As far as cash usage in the first half of the year you have to balance it off with land spend as well and look at all the factors together.
I mean we spent over $300 million in land investment in the first 6 months of this year which is a pretty healthy number.
Most of our spending this year was in the first half and we had the ability to control that and to mitigate that depending on the deliveries.
I think another very important factor as we enter 2012 is the backlog level.
We expect to be going in with a very strong backlog relative to what we went into the first half of 2011 and expect to see continued sales strength.
So now there's a number of factors that come together on the cash side.
Obviously there's levers that you can pull and there's multiple cash levers that we see and have the ability to manage out into the first 6 months of 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
On a separate topic what percentage of your sales over the past year were to first-time homebuyers? And then going forward what percentage do you think will be to first-time homebuyers or what's your target? Okay.
As we look at this year we had about 2/3 the last couple of quarters of our sales were going to first-time and that had actually come down a bit from prior quarters especially in 2010.
And it -- very straight in 2010 and even 2009 we were up over 70% and at one point in 2009 approaching 80%.
So the trend is definitely going the other way although somewhat modestly quarter-over-quarter.
I mean it's dropping a few percentage points.
And like Jeff said I mean we target our communities and we target our product as we have traditionally and it's very difficult to predict I think where that's going out in the future.
But Josh that's the beauty of our business model.
We don't strategically target a consumer.
We target a price band that straddles the median income in that submarket.
So if the first-time buyers are more prevalent there that's who we'll cater to.
If the move-up buyer's more prevalent that's who we cater to.
So I think our percentages are more a reflection of the consumer than they are a targeted buyer strategy.
We will take our next question from Stephen East with Ticonderoga Securities.
Research Division</strong> Jeff just to follow on Josh's question.
It sounds like if I read between the lines what you're talking about for next year you would prefer to hold your land spend down and net generate cash through your homebuilding ops.
Is that an accurate read on it? Yes I don't know that I would jump that far Stephen.
Jeff was walking through the levers.
If you look at it our WIP spend is typically highest in July and August as you're closing out a third quarter and setting up a larger fourth quarter as you deliver through your stronger spring sales.
So WIP spend goes up in the third and fourth quarter.
Land spend can vary from quarter-to-quarter and your revenues typically dip in the first and second quarter because you're delivering through the sales from a seasonally softer period.
So we know that we're going to end the year with higher backlog and it gives us confidence that we'll be growing revenue into Q1 and Q2 compared to this year and we'll continue to keep things in balance based on sales pace land spend to support our business trajectory and mindful of keeping our cash in balance.
So there's all these levers at play at all times.
And if sales slow we'll slow our land spend.
We continue to be comfortable with the cash balance that we're managing to.
Research Division</strong> Okay alright that's helpful.
And then just the other thing.
One what you're sort of seeing on land deals? Are they getting tougher to pencil from that perspective? And then two you've talked about the performance in Las Vegas.
So with that type of volume are you all actually able to get pricing there? Well we have seen some price in Vegas where communities are selling faster than we need or we would like on that asset.
And the term I keep using is we optimize the asset where we try to keep them down say minimum sales rate that gets you profitable and gets your cash out with the best return.
If your sales rate exceeds that hurdle you'll push price.
If the sales rate drops below you'll get more aggressive.
And we do what we call scalpel pricing per community literally every week where we track our sales are and do we need to push price or pull back on price.
We have a great story in Vegas where we grand opened a community in the third quarter that was actually a development deal in Henderson of Versante that came out of the gate very strong above our pro forma and we were able to push price a little bit.
So that was a nice story.
We'll go next to Nishu Sood with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> First I wanted to ask about your order trends on a longer-term perspective.
40% year-over-year performance obviously very very strong relative to what we've seen out of some of the other folks.
If I look back over the last 5 years through the downturn through the peaks and the valleys of the tax credit your numbers are always more volatile than your peers’.
And so the highs are higher the lows are lower and we seem to be setting up for another quarter like that.
So I wanted to ask a longer-term question not just about this quarter.
What do you think causes that? Is it something to do with management processes your sales processes your incentive maybe your different fiscal year? So why are your numbers more volatile than your peers’? Nishu I don't know how to even respond to that because I don't know that we are different than the peers over the long run.
You had some pretty extraordinary influences in '09 and '10 with tax credits and with things we may have done to build inventory to cover a tax credit your sales spike to tax credits go away.
What's going on right now in our business is a growing community count in better locations with communities that are hitting our sales goals.
And you can see the sales traction that's occurring.
This isn't a one-time event that's gone.
We shared we had momentum coming out of August and it's a reflection of better performing communities not that it's a market spike or something like that.
And I would expect since we're growing community count for the first time in many years and our backlog is getting back in balance that you'll see our sales be more even keel going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the second question I wanted to ask was on the cash to liquidity side.
Have you folks -- with the credit market spreads the CDS [credit default swap] widening out quite a bit and you folks obviously have ruled out on equity offering post your last quarter at least in the near to medium term.
So I wanted to ask about lines of credit.
Have you been having conversations with banks? How are you finding their receptiveness to perhaps set up a line of credit sometime in the next 12 to 18 months let's say? Nishu as again I'd like to reiterate we've guided we'll have $500 million in cash at the end of the year which is more than ample to run a business at the revenue size that we're at and provide growth opportunities.
So we don't have to do anything but run the business.
And while CDS may spread or this instrument changes in value we're focused on running the business and supporting ourselves today and providing opportunities for tomorrow.
And we think we have that and we're comfortable at the $500 million.
Unless you want to give any color on anything else? Yes on options and opportunities I think with our current capital structure and the way our indentures are worded we have plenty of flexibility on a capital structure if need be.
We watch liquidity we watch our forward forecast.
And I think as Jeff said we're very comfortable right now.
We'll take our next question from Ken Zener with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> I just have some questions on the -- in the first quarter you highlighted the fixed gross margin because of the low revenue.
Can you give us an update on both the gross margin kind of fixed cost? I think you said $15 million in the first quarter.
Give us an idea where it is now given the higher community count as well as previously you've talked about 6% being variable on the SG&amp;A? Correct yes.
And just to clarify on the percentage on the SG&amp;A it's in the range of 6% to 7% of sales of the top line revenues and you can look at that as a variable component.
And it does range in between there and a lot of the variance and variability in that range just comes from our regional mix of business though certain regions carry a slightly higher SG&amp;A load than others.
So that's one piece.
On the fixed cost I don't think it's changed materially from the beginning of the year.
We're trying to hold that down as well as we can.
We like the fact that we do have community count growth coming and we've been able to hold those expenses down at a reasonable level and it's really moving on a percentage basis more based on volume.
And as we shared in Q1 and Q2 we were already incurring the overhead side of these communities to get them open and we made the decision to carry the load to set up a better tomorrow and you're now seeing that come back in the sales pace and the backlog and our trajectory.
We have incredible leverage here.
We could significantly raise our productivity per community from the first half of this year without adding a lot of overhead.
So part of our strategy in getting to profitability is this leverage that we're now setting up.
But the cost was there in the first half of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
No that leverage is obviously critical for you guys.
It sounded like – and the second question here is community count.
You gave us 233.
It sounded like you guys have a way of looking at it and you gave us 10% year-over-year.
Would you mind -- because I think those are kind of new unless I've been missing something.
Could you kind of just go back in time so we have a trend A talk about the methodology talk about 2012 as well as give us your own lot count both finished and total reported spec? There's a lot in that final question Ken.
Look I'll do my best.
On the community count yes that is new.
You picked that up correctly.
We went to a very simplified approach on community count.
And the way we're counting it is basically active selling communities.
So when we get a community up and running and we start taking sales it's entering the community count.
And it's leaving the community count when we sell our last unit so our last lot leaves and it comes off that quarter.
The way I'm looking at it we're taking quarter end snapshots.
We're taking an average beginning and ending quarter and then we're comparing it to a prior period.
So if you look at the number we gave for this quarter at the quarter end we ended at 233.
233 communities at the end of the quarter.
Last year same quarter end we had 211.
So we were up about 10% and those are the numbers that we offered up on that.
Relating to lot counts I think our lot counts stayed relatively stable from the end of the last quarter at 37 000 total and just let me get some detail on the options.
We had about 6 000 optioned about 31 000 owned at the end of the third quarter and I think that was relatively pretty close to where we ended the second quarter at.
And at this time we will take our last question from Buck Horne with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to go to maybe more big picture thoughts here.
Maybe talk about the mortgage market for a second.
There’s been a lot of concern about the difficulties buyers are having qualifying for mortgages and navigating the verification process.
Can you talk a little bit about how you see the mortgage underwriting environment affecting your buyers? And are you seeing any signs that standards are tightening still? Buck we’ve spent a lot of time on this topic back in the fourth quarter and the first quarter where we had seen a strong shift not so much in underwriting guidelines toughening but the documentation requirements were becoming extremely burdensome on the consumer.
And I believe I shared on the second quarter call we actually saw that it had eased a little bit that maybe the pendulum had gone too far and may have eased a little bit on the documentation.
I don't know since then we've seen any material toughening relative to where we were at.
It's obviously much much tighter than it was a few years ago and FICO scores are up and ratios are tighter and documentation is still pretty thorough.
So I believe that it is limiting demand in the marketplace.
I do think people that have confidence in their job and in their personal life still find a way to get a loan.
And we're evidencing that with our sales pace and our delivery trajectory.
Financing’s out there; it’s readily available.
It's just much tougher than it was a few years ago.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my last thought is can you speak kind of broadly maybe just regards to this employee classification issue that the Labor Department is bringing and they're kind of investigating across the industry.
And just kind of wondering what your thoughts are if there's any validity to it.
And kind of what the potential cost may be or risk to the industry if certain employees had to be reclassed as employees instead of contractors? Buck we will acknowledge Buck that we received the letter and it's been widely covered in the news.
We're continuing to evaluate the request from the Department of Labor as are all the other builders that received the same letter.
And frankly I think it's too early to tell.
It's gotten a lot of activity in the media not sure why.
We're going to continue to work with the request and respond to what they've asked for.
But at this time we'd rather not give any color because we're still trying to understand it.
And that does conclude today's question-and-answer session.
I'd like to turn the conference back over to our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Okay.
Thanks everyone for your time today.
At KB Home we're now reaping the rewards of our strategy on investment our overhead reductions and our better market positioning.
We believe the improvements we've made in sales community count average selling price margins and backlog all bode well for our future.
And we look forward to building on this momentum to achieve profitability and growth.
Thank you all and have a great day.
We look forward to talking to you again soon.
That concludes today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone.
Welcome to KB Home's 2011 Fourth Quarter and Year End Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded and webcast on KB Home's website at kbhome.com.
The recording will be available via telephone replay until midnight Eastern Time on December 28 2011 by calling (719) 457-0820 and using the replay passcode of 4323387.
A replay will also be available through KB Home's website for 30 days.
KB Home's discussion today may include certain predictions and other forward-looking statements that reflect management's current expectations or forecasts of market and economic conditions and of the company's business activities prospects strategy and financial and operational results.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance and due to a number of risks uncertainties and other factors outside of its control KB Home's actual results could be materially different from those expressed and/or implied by the forward-looking statements.
Many of these risk factors are identified on KB Home's filings with the SEC which the company urges you to read with care.
The discussion today may also include references to non-GAAP financial measures as defined in Regulation G.
The reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and of Regulation G required information is provided in the company's earnings release issued earlier today which is posted on the Investor Relations page of the company's website under Recent Releases and through the Financial Information News Releases link on the right-hand side of the page.
I'll now turn the conference over to Mr.
Jeff Mezger.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Melody.
Good morning everyone.
I'd like to thank you all for joining us today to discuss the results of our fourth quarter and fiscal year 2011.
With me this morning as always are Jeff Kaminski our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Bill Hollinger our Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer.
As we have shared on our previous call this year our objective at KB Home over the past several quarters has been to continue to realign our business consistent with the principles of our KBnxt Built to Order business model and to position ourselves to restore sustained profitability.
Our presold model emphasizes choice and value for the consumer.
This approach enhances sales revenue and customer satisfaction while at the same time reaps the benefits of production and cost efficiencies all of which improve operating margins.
We know through experience that our Built to Order sales generate 4 to 5 percentage points of higher margin.
And given our stronger backlog position today we expect Built to Order homes to comprise a growing percentage of our deliveries as 2012 unfolds.
Establishing an adequate backlog to support our business model has been very challenging in the difficult housing market of the past few years.
That is why we have taken a number of strategic and proactive steps this year to increase our backlog and in particular our presold backlog.
Our fourth quarter net order and backlog comparisons reflect the diligent efforts of our entire team on this objective.
Through the combination of new product lines new communities and emphasis on our Built to Order process and industry-leading energy efficiency initiatives we established the sales pace that led us to close the year with the highest year-end backlog we have had since 2008.
We are confident this will improve the predictability of our deliveries and increase our margins going forward.
And now that we have an adequate level of presold backlog to support even-flow production they're even more potential synergies to be realized through overhead and cost-to-build efficiencies.
So while we were very pleased to report a profit in the fourth quarter of 2011 equally important for us was the success we achieved in reestablishing the right balance of backlog at year-end and setting up improved year-over-year results starting with our first quarter of 2012.
Our optimism in achieving better results in 2012 stems in large part from our ability over the past 6 months to generate a markedly improved sales pace over the prior year despite the ongoing challenges of the market.
We reported a 38% year-over-year improvement in net orders in the fourth quarter keeping up the strong pace of our 40% year-over-year increase in net orders in the third quarter of 2011.
As a result of our second half sales performance we ended the year with positive year-over-year net orders for the full year of 2011 when compared to 2010.
Net orders were higher in all 4 of our operating regions in the fourth quarter as was also the case in the third quarter of 2011.
Net orders in our Central and Southeast regions were up 40% and 39% respectively.
We were especially pleased with the performance of our West Coast region where net orders were up 48% and where our gross profits are also highest.
Our average selling price for the quarter was $238 400 up both sequentially and year-over-year as we had guided it would be.
This increase reflects the higher-priced product we are offering as a result of our strategic shift to opening new communities in more desirable submarkets.
These submarkets feature higher median incomes and less inventory allowing us to sell homes at higher price points with increased square footages and higher studio revenues.
Moving on to backlog we ended 2011 with the highest year-end backlog we have had in 3 years a compelling 61% increase in units and a 74% increase in dollars representing $459 million of future housing revenues.
Like our net orders our backlog was once again higher in all 4 of our operating regions.
We are moving closer to our per community backlog target and in particular we have increased the percentage of our backlog as sold and unstarted.
This is pipeline is a reflection of the value of our business model and is a core prerequisite to realizing the cost efficiencies of even-flow production.
This represents a sharp contrast to our relatively weak backlog position at the end of the fourth quarter of last year and as I mentioned sets us up very well heading into 2012.
Most importantly our consumer is increasingly recognizing the value inherent in the Built to Order process which gives them a new home experience with exactly the design and features they want in a build time that averages just over 3 months.
This is a compelling advantage against our fiercest competitor retail homes.
We delivered 1 995 homes in the fourth quarter compared to 1 918 in the fourth quarter of 2010 our first year-over-year delivery increase in 2011.
We recognize that this delivery number is in line with analyst estimates but we had a higher expectation for deliveries entering the quarter.
While we saw the difficult underwriting environment continue to hamper our customers' ability to obtain a mortgage we attribute the shortfall primarily to issues arising from our transition to our new non-exclusive marketing agreement with MetLife Home Loans.
As of July 1 MetLife went to work mobilizing teams in our markets to compete for our customers' business.
But as MetLife was in the process of gearing up many of our customers chose to finance their home purchases with a variety of mortgage companies other than MetLife most of which were not reliable in meeting a closing date.
As a result our consumers and our deliveries in the fourth quarter were adversely impacted by lender-related delays.
Many homes that were completed and ready for delivery at year end will now close in the first quarter of 2012.
To give you some color on this in the past our preferred lender is providing mortgages for as many as 80% of our customers.
But in the fourth quarter of 2011 this ratio was less than 40%.
MetLife performed well for our customers during the quarter and is achieving sequential month-to-month improvement in the share of our customers' business that it earns.
We expect this ongoing trend to result in more predictable closing going forward.
As you may know however during the fourth quarter MetLife announced their intention to sell their Home Loan business.
Until there is a decision on MetLife's Home Loan business and we are able to evaluate its impact we expect to continue our existing arrangement.
We have developed a contingency plan if the outcome is not advantageous to KB Home or our customers.
It remains our strategic intention to reestablish a joint venture on the mortgage side which can provide additional benefits in terms of predictability of loan closings synergies and profits.
Our lower than expected delivery volume in the fourth quarter also affected many other aspects of our business including gross margins SG&amp;A ratios profits and cash.
While we're pleased to see the positive results of our sales strategy we still have challenges foremost of which in the quarter was our disappointment with our gross margin.
We understand that we cannot achieve our goal of sustained profitability without both volumes and margin growth.
We are continuing to work diligently on improving our gross margins through better execution of our business model.
As I mentioned the margins on our Built to Order homes are historically 4 to 5 percentage points higher than on inventory sales.
As further evidence that we're more fully realigned with our presold model at year end we had the lowest unsold inventory number we have had in quite some time allowing our sales teams to primarily focus on Built to Order sales.
With an increased backlog in place we expect to gain cost efficiencies and overhead and cost to build as we fully realize the benefits of our strategy and even-flow production.
We are confident this will lead to better growth and operating margins going forward.
Finally we were pleased that the South Edge joint venture litigation was essentially resolved in the quarter at terms and conditions we had anticipated.
Now that this matter is behind us we are moving forward with our efforts to optimize the potential of this valuable asset in the highly land-constrained Las Vegas market.
The city of Henderson is a very desirable community to live in and was just recognized by Forbes magazine as the second safest city in America.
We are working together with the city of Henderson and others to revise a development plan which is the next step in the process and are hopeful we will begin land development on these future phases by the end of 2012.
Now I will turn the call over to Jeff Kaminski who will offer some detail on our financials in the quarter.
Jeff? Thank you.
As Jeff mentioned we were pleased to post a profit in the fourth quarter of 2011 and we will continue to strive to expand this profitability in the feature.
The momentum that we discussed during the last 2 quarterly calls continued into the fourth quarter and we are very well-positioned entering fiscal 2012.
KB Home reported net income of $13.9 million in the fourth quarter or $0.18 per share compared to net income of $17.4 million or $0.23 per share in the same period the prior year.
The 2011 results included gains relating to the wind down of our mortgage banking joint venture and the resolution of South Edge legal matters.
For the fourth quarter our housing gross margin excluding impairments and land option contract impediments was 15.1% of housing revenues.
This was essentially flat from the third quarter excluding the positive impact of $7.4 million of warranty adjustments in that quarter.
We had expected improvement over the 2011 third quarter from an increased mix of deliveries coming from newer communities the positive impact of volume leverage and expected partial recovery of prior-year quarter expenditures relating to Chinese drywall.
The mix of deliveries coming from new communities increased by less than we had anticipated during the quarter in part due to some of the closing delays caused by mortgage issues.
As a result the favorable impact from this shift was not realized.
In relation to the drywall expense recovery while this was not finalized in the fourth quarter we do expect to see a positive impact on margin from recoveries in 2012.
In addition we continue to prioritize our Built to Order model and as part of that process continue to reduce our level of unsold inventory during the quarter which had a moderately negative impact on margins.
However our spec reduction strategy was successful and we ended the fiscal year with an average of only about 1 unsold finished inventory unit per community.
Selling general and administrative expenses in the fourth quarter were $75.6 million compared to $55.7 million in the fourth quarter last year and $60.2 million in the third quarter of 2011.
On a sequential basis the increased cost in the quarter related primarily to a difference in legal reserves and insurance reimbursements.
We had an insurance recovery of over $8 million in the third quarter which we talked about on our last earnings call and an increase of $4.5 million of noncash legal reserves during the current quarter accounting for almost $13 million of the quarter-over-quarter variance in SG&amp;A expenses.
In addition higher volume drove an expected increase in variable selling expenses of $6 million which were partially offset by continued reductions in fixed costs including salaries professional services rent and insurance.
Overall our SG&amp;A expense ratio of 15.9% reflected our third consecutive quarter of improvement.
While we still have more work to do we believe we're making solid progress in aligning our overhead structure with revenue levels in a challenging market environment.
With regard to South Edge in late October the joint venture received quarter approval for its proposed reorganization plans and the plan was confirmed in November.
This action allowed us to resolve and fund our share of South Edge's outstanding liabilities during the fourth quarter as we had guided on previous calls.
Our final obligations related to the reorganization plan and the settlement of South Edge legal matters were favorable to our prior projections and we recorded a gain of $6.6 million during the quarter.
A new joint venture has been established with 3 of the other builders and as a result we have recorded a joint venture investment on our books that essentially reflects the value of the underlying land.
It is important to note that the new joint ventures for development planning purposes only and will be utilized while the builders conclude their discussions with the city and finalize their strategy for moving forward.
Turning now to our land acquisition development activity our total investment in 2011 was approximately $478 million.
When you consider the additional $75 million of South Edge land that was reflected as a new joint venture investment our total land spend during the year was in line with our expectation and prior guidance of approximately $550 million.
Despite our lower-than-anticipated deliveries and the substantial cash impact in resulting both the South Edge reorganization plan obligations and the related arbitration award during the quarter we ended the year with a cash balance of $480 million.
This balance does not include approximately $20 million of cash received during the first week of December in connection with the wind down of our mortgage joint venture.
The most significant use of cash in the quarter was the $252 million pertaining to the settlement of the South Edge-related liabilities for which we received a valuable land asset.
On a per year basis our cash outflows also included nearly $200 million of debt reductions as well as the $478 million of land acquisition and development investments just discussed.
Our intent is to manage the business to a cash-neutral position for fiscal 2012 and as such we are currently anticipating that our total spending on land investment for the year will be in the range of $400 million to $600 million depending in large part of course on what we are seeing on the ground in our markets as the year progresses.
We are confident we have adequate liquidity to support our business needs today and to remain opportunistic going forward.
Now I'll turn the call back over to Jeff Mezger for some final remarks.
Thanks Jeff.
The consumer benefits of KB Home's Built to Order business model are clear.
No other builder can consistently provide customers with the unique combination of the customized new home experience they desire with the savings and value that our innovative designs and energy-efficient features can deliver.
We believe this differentiation in the marketplace has been a real driver of the strong sales numbers we have reported over the past 6 months.
Our commitment to this model which emphasizes quality value and choice for the consumer is reflected in our ongoing sustainability initiatives.
We have put great emphasis on sustainability over the past few years primarily because it brings real and immediate economic benefits to our consumers in the form of low energy builds and thus a lower total cost of ownership.
During the quarter for example we expanded at our popular solar program in Southern California were solar power systems now come as a standard feature in 28 communities.
At the same time KB Home began its nationwide rollout of net 0 energy options featured in model homes in Tampa Austin and San Antonio.
KB Home's ongoing leadership in the realm of sustainability best illustrated with our proprietary energy performance guide included in every home we sell sends a clear message to buyers that we will continue to be innovative in offering homes that are competitively priced today and will also save them money for years to come especially compared to a typical resale home.
While our primary objective in this area has always been to bring value to our consumers along the way we continue to be recognized externally for our efforts.
During the quarter we were the first and only national builder to be named a WaterSense Partner of the Year by the EPA for our industry-leading water-saving features.
We were also honored by the U.S.
Green Building Council with the Outstanding Multi Family Project of the Year award for our LEED Platinum-certified Primera Terra community in Southern California.
As we look ahead we are optimistic about the encouraging trends we are seeing in the broader marketplace.
In the majority of our markets house payments are now lower than rent and it is incredible affordability that is driving demand.
As the stabilization process moves forward we are seeing inventory levels continuing to ease in many of our markets which is a prerequisite for housing recovery.
However we are even more encouraged by the momentum we are building at KB Home.
I want to especially thank all of our employees throughout the company for their efforts in 2011.
As we close the books on the year I'd like to highlight some of our major accomplishments which include more fully aligning our business with our Built to Order model; our regional shift in land investment for the growth markets of coastal California and Texas; community count growth in more desirable submarkets; lowering our non-variable overhead expenses by a meaningful amount; resolving the South Edge liability and removing that uncertainty; eliminating all outstanding joint venture debt; achieving nearly $200 million in debt reduction; elevating our already-strong brand position as an industry leader in energy efficient homes; maintaining record levels of customer satisfaction; achieving accelerated second half sales growth; and establishing a significant year-end backlog of future revenues.
We also believe our successful land strategy based on the discipline of our business model will continue to provide opportunities for growth.
We are committed to maintain adequate liquidity to support our business needs and remain opportunistic.
This will allow us to further expand our competitive positioning in our served markets across the country.
While the challenges of the market certainly remain the same we are in a very different business as we enter 2012.
Now that we have established the sales pace and backlog that will allow us to fully reap the benefits of our Built to Order business model we believe we have laid the foundation for improved financial and operating performance in the new fiscal year.
In addition to delivering more homes at higher prices we expect that operating margins will improve in 2012 on a year-over-year basis starting in the first quarter and will be positive for the year as we execute our Built to Order model.
Most of all we look forward to building on our current momentum to position the company for sustained profitability.
With that we'll now open it up to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go to Joshua Pollard with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to start by clarifying a comment that you just made Jeff.
Did you say you wanted to be operationally or that your plan was to be operationally profitable? I'm trying to understand what line on the income statement you might be talking about if that's the operating income line if that's the pretax line or if that's the bottom line.
It was the operating income line operating margin.
Research Division</strong> Okay and could you along those same levels talk about what you think a normal SG&amp;A level should be? There's been a bunch of sort of moving items in there.
You guys talked about a positive impact from drywall.
There's a couple of things and I'm really just trying to understand what you guys felt like a clean SG&amp;A as a percent of sales figure should be for you guys as you look at 2012.
I'd love to hear what your thoughts are on the impact as well on gross margins from the issues on the mortgage side of the business.
On the SG&amp;A side Josh as we shared we made meaningful reductions.
And I agree with your comment that some of them aren't clear because of the one-off adjustments that we have been making on those lines during the third quarter and the fourth quarter.
And we're committed to continue to take actions to lower our fixed cost going forward.
In normal times our SG&amp;A will run around 12% of revenue.
But we are not in normal times and with our backlog position we know that we will get SG&amp;A leverage coming in 2012.
So we'll have a nice mix of leverage and cost reduction in the year.
I don't know Jeff if you want to give them any of your thoughts.
No I think Jeff summed it up.
On the SG&amp;A side we're focused on a number of areas and we're going to see improvement coming off a number of initiatives that we had this year.
I mean first and foremost probably the easiest way to forecast next year is to look at some of the full year impacts that we'll see coming off of 2011 initiatives.
We'll continue to put focus on cost reductions and we do have several additional areas that we're focused on and will continue to focus on as we go throughout the year.
And then finally we do expect to see leverage impact on SG&amp;A in 2012 based on their backlog that we're entering the year and expected higher deliveries in '12 than we saw in '11.
So we think the combination should give us a somewhat meaningful improvement in the SG&amp;A percentage as we move forward.
Research Division</strong> Excellent and 1 last follow-up if I could.
You guys have for the last 2 quarters been talking about growing or building momentum in the overall business.
I'd love to understand what you guys think is driving that.
You did call out in your prepared comments the rent-to-price ratios and how much more favorable it is in many cities to own.
But that hasn't changed dramatically in the last 6 months and you've had a significant amount of negative commentary out of Washington et cetera.
I wonder what you think is driving the most recent momentum we see not just for yourselves but also in metrics like housing starts and existing home sales.
Josh you threw a lot in there at the end.
As you probably saw this morning the resale numbers all just got adjusted.
So I'll again hope that you can have a quality conversation on what's going on with resales right now.
We do know in the communities that we're opening that we shared our strategy on they're located in more desirable submarkets where there's not as much resale activity or inventory.
There's definitely not as much foreclosure activity in those areas and there's no new home competition.
So it's a nice combination.
And where we've opened these up we've seen solid sales results.
So I think in part our selling effort frankly the most part is that we're a little bit different company today in our positioning with where our communities are.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go to Bob Wetenhall with RBC Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Nice job and it seems like will you got a very strong backlog going into next year.
I was hoping if you could just give us a little view on what you're expecting from conversion rates next year.
As I shared on the last call Bob in normal times our conversion rate will be 65% or so.
And it's pretty easy to calculate how to get there.
We'd like to have enough on started backlog to continue to see even-flow and it takes you 3 months to build a home.
So in balance it'll be up the 5-month backlog in that community.
We're not there yet.
We're getting closer but we're still not there.
On the last call we guided I think 70% or 75% roughly for Q4.
We're within range of that.
I think we'll be a little above 65% in our first quarter deliveries and you'll see the number migrate down to around 65% as the year unfolds.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it got it.
And just touching on gross margin it seems like you're doing really well with average selling prices going up on a sequential basis and year-over-year.
Do you think that's going to be something that's sustainable that will help drive better gross margins and on the other side of the gross margin question can you just provide any color on incentives you're providing? Let me make a couple of comments Bob then I can hand it over to Jeff to give you more specific details.
Our prices going up because of the products we're offering in better more desirable submarkets.
Along with that our average home size is also going up.
We're in locations where there is much higher median household income and they can afford more.
So we have a higher price point submarket.
We're offering a full array of floor plans to buyers selecting larger plans on average and then they're spending more money in the studio.
So you have a consumer with a lot more buying power and in these more desirable submarkets.
So it's been a nice mix.
I went through all of that because we're not getting pure price in today's market.
And we're not assuming any price for next year.
We think it will be basically where it is today and that's okay because we know through execution we can lift our margins without having to raise price.
That's the general strategy.
I don't know sitting here where the ASP will go in '12 because it depends on where the buyers selections go in the floor plan array whether it's the smaller homes or the larger homes.
But on average wouldn't expect prices to go down.
But I'd say it's going to be fairly static with where it is right now year-over-year.
Jeff you've got to some more color? Sure.
yes as Jeff mentioned in his prepared comments improving our margin is a very important part of our strategy moving forward and we're placing significant focus on this area.
You mentioned specifically the incentives remain relatively steady on the incentive side.
We would obviously as a business like to continue to reduce those and we will place focus on that area but there haven't been any unusual movements either way in incentives up to this point.
We'll hear next from Adam Rudiger with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm wondering if you would talk about your projected working capital needs.
If you just take into account the $400 million to $600 million in land spend and then the widely seasonal build-up in inventory what you think you'll need and potentially where you think your -- where you see your cash bottoming out at intra-year? We're going to stay away from actual specific cash forecast on a quarterly basis.
So we talked about the -- again during the prepared remarks that we have a cash-neutral and forecasted cash-neutral 2012.
Obviously working capital moves up and down depending on whip in your backlog and the percentage of on your construction inventory that you have.
We are going to manage our land spend as we go through the year and really manage it to current conditions.
So you should expect in a weaker housing environment as you might expect a lower land spend closer to the bottom end of our range in a more robust environment particularly as the spring selling season is strong slightly higher land spend which will be funded of course by higher deliveries in the back half of the year.
So we do see seasonal trends.
You've seen it in prior years in our business.
We'll keep an eye on that and we believe we have adequate cash to take us through those ups and downs during the year 2012.
And I think importantly coming out of the year at a neutral cash level.
Adam let me add a little more color too on "the inventory buildup".
When you have a backlog and you're rolling through more consistently with deliveries and starts that are close to imbalance you don't use up as much cash as you do when you build a lot of houses and then they all deliver in 1 month at the end of a quarter 2 quarters down the road.
But we think we'll have a better flow of cash in and out of the web.
And what will move our cash number up and down is how aggressive or conservative we are on land spend and that's why we committed to cash-neutral for the year.
LLC Research Division</strong> That makes sense.
On that backlog number you mentioned in your earlier prepared remarks some efficiencies on even-flow production.
Can you comment any kind or quantify or talk about that a little bit more is there a specific level or general level of backlog where you think those efficiencies really kick in versus where they're a drag? Hard to quantify Adam because we haven't have the benefits for years frankly.
But when you have a backlog that sets up even-flow when you start the same number of houses each day or each week in a market you can go to the contractors and work with them to negotiate a better price because they're able to better manage their overhead and their materials without the spikes that our industry has been creating as we've navigated through this thing.
In the good old days we saw couple of points of margin due to the synergies and efficiencies on cost to build and better leveraging your overhead.
Right now we're not getting that.
We do know we'll see an improvement as the year unfolds and to be told there is meaningful benefit to our margin either from a higher percentage of Built to Order sales delivering through or hopefully down the road this year synergies and efficiencies on the even-flow side.
And Michael Rehaut with JPMorgan has our next question.
Research Division</strong> First question I was hoping you could give us a sense of what community count was for the quarter what that translates to on a -- comparing it sequentially and year-over-year.
And given the land spend range what you would expect that to I would assume that there'll be some modest growth in '12 expected.
If you could share any of that with us.
Sure community count in the fourth quarter we ended the quarter at 234 communities which was about the same just up 1 committee from the end of the third quarter.
Actually we had a fair amount of activity going into that.
We had 29 new community openings in the fourth quarter and 28 closeouts.
But at the end of the day we're up just 1 community so basically flat quarter-over-quarter.
Year-over-year if you average it out and you look at the averages by quarter again about 233.5 this year in the fourth quarter and about 210 last year in the fourth quarter.
So we're up about 11% year-over-year in community count.
When we look going forward basically we're looking at opening about 25 new communities in the first half and the relative growth on that will be highly dependent obviously on the number of closeouts which is difficult to predict based on deliveries.
So we'll continue some new openings into the first of the year and then monitor conditions as we go out in the second half.
Research Division</strong> Okay I appreciate that.
I guess the second question I just want to kind of circle back to SG&amp;A and gross margins.
The SG&amp;A I guess what I'm getting at is how to think about 2012 for both line items.
You have SG&amp;A that -- I believe if you kind of strip out the gain the benefit in the third quarter and the legal reserve increase in the fourth quarter you're still are looking at about a 19% SG&amp;A rate for 2012 actually slightly above -- I'm sorry that's 2011 the 19%.
You've also mentioned some improvements that you're doing that you did throughout the year.
So I'm just trying to get a sense of how to think all else equal obviously there's a leverage for revenue growth.
But that aside there's a core reduction in SG&amp;A that we should take into account.
Similarly on the gross profit margin you've had -- you've been calling for an improvement in the back half of the year really hasn't fully materialized and you point to some factors in the fourth quarter that kind of pushed out that improvement.
Just trying to get a sense of how we should think about 2012.
What type of improvement we should be looking for given that it's fallen short in the last 2 or 3 quarters.
Should we be thinking in terms of a 50 100 200? I mean what's the type of degree of magnitude that we should be expecting? Mike let me make a couple of strategic comments and then I'll again hand it to Jeff for some specifics.
If you look at 2011 and a lot of it ties back to your community count question we really had a tale of 2 companies.
We have a first half with no backlog entering the year and a lot of expense tied to all the communities that we opened.
In the second half you had stronger sales and community counts that are now in place and opening which set us up for a 2012 with momentum.
So that's why in part we guided we know our operating margin will be higher year-over-year sequentially through '12.
And we guided to positive operating margins for the year.
It's a different world when you have sales momentum and you can pull levers and manage to a pace versus try to get models open and chase the pace.
And now that the models are open and with the number Jeff gave you you don't have this need to push through a lot of model openings because they're there.
So we can now manage far better to a business that's more in balance.
And that's why we're confident that we're going to have a better result as we go into '12 because we're far better positioned whether it's the backlog the product types or the overhead structure in alignment with revenue.
You want to give them any specific numbers Jeff? Yes sure.
I think what we're focused on Mike is the overall operating margin.
We think that's important -- the most important component for the business.
We do expect to see pretty significant improvement in operating margins in the neighborhood of 500 basis points for the year coming of course the combination from both SG&amp;A reductions the leverage impact in SG&amp;A as well as margin improvement.
So that's pretty much where we're pegging it at right now for plans leading us a lot of the clarity will come to that number as we get through really the first quarter and into the spring selling season.
And we're able to see better and have better visibility for the back half of the year.
But at this point we're pretty confident with that operating plan and operating forecast.
We'll go next to Dennis McGill with Zelman &amp; Associates.
Research Division</strong> I just want to come back to the fourth quarter margins because realizing there's a lot going on probably would impact 2012.
If we go back to your expectations I think Jeff you had implied that margin could be up sequentially from the third quarter level which included the warranty reserve and I think on our numbers that leaves us about 250 basis points or so.
The actual came in 250 basis points or so lower than that.
And you mentioned some different things being mix the loss of leverage on the top line and the drywall reversal.
Can you kind of break those things done so we can understand what's temporary and what's potentially going to be pushed out into next year? Sure we have -- like I mentioned there were several fairly significant impacts in the quarter versus our expectations.
I think it is important to know we didn't have a decline in operating margin quarter-over-quarter.
We were more or less flat in gross profit margin sorry quarter-over-quarter more or less flat.
The impact of each if you look at starting I guess with the spec deliveries in the impact going from that it was less than 100 basis points impact on the gross margin.
The most significant one was our expectation relating to the drywall recovery.
We have a fairly significant recovery that we're expecting and in fact we do plan to receive that and capture that in 2012.
It was deferred for a number of reasons not the least of which that we were not happy with the point in time in negotiations at the end of the year and feel there's much more in it for us.
So we as opposed to taking the trade off of booking a number into the fourth quarter we decided to maximize that recovery and be a little more patient in order to fight for a stronger recovery out into 2012.
And it's quite the most significant piece of margin improvement anticipated in the quarter and makes that highest 200 basis points.
In addition to those 2 the leverage impact slightly lower again.
Less than 100 basis point impact on that side coming off that.
I think that pretty much covers it up.
That's basically the wrap up on that 1.
Research Division</strong> Okay so if you were to exclude a lot of those items which -- that's very helpful to isolate those.
If you exclude some of those and turn to warranty adjustments things that I guess would be considered non-core within the year your expectation into next year is really sort of that baseline plus or minus what happens with the pricing environment.
Well again Dennis we aren't giving guidance because there's a lot of moving parts still and we are in the year unfold.
We know we can improve our gross profits just through delivering a higher percentage of presold homes.
And that's one of our primary objectives as we go into next year.
We're delivering presold homes today so you have that and what percentage was inventory and what percentage was presold and how much can you lift your margin through that.
If you look at the receivable that we would get on our warranty you can say it's onetime but the costs were actually incurred into our margin at some point prior to that.
So it's the offset to the negative that we took earlier in the year.
So while it's onetime it is balancing something that we took in part in earlier in '11 or prior years.
So we think that there's margin opportunity.
We're committed to it whether it's more strategic pricing and what I keep getting back to when you have a backlog that can deliver at a pace now there's a lot of leverage you can move whether it's price on this plan that's selling better than others or whether it's the cost side and efficiency you can get there.
So there's a lot of levers we can now pull that we haven't been able to over the past few years and we think that over time you'll see the margin continue to improve.
We will go next to David Goldberg with UBS.
Research Division</strong> My first question -- I was hoping you could step back here and talk about the capture rate at MetLife.
40% I think Jeff was the number you mentioned in your prepared remarks.
It seemed like a very very low level and I'm kind of wondering if you could give us an idea one what it was that drove such a low capture rate.
I think that was even lower than when you guys -- when you recently went to the JV structure 5 years ago.
So what drove such a low capture rate? And was that a risk that you guys had identified when you're on a due diligence process of choosing a new partner that you could see a substantial drop-off in capture rates from where you had been? David I have couple of comments I can share.
But first off when we sold our business to Countrywide many years ago it took about 18 months to get up to the normalized capture rate.
There's an integration period and at the time we had a lot of backlog.
The business was running well the markets were good and they were very good at process even with all those favorable elements.
It still took 18 years to get to normalized retention.
Or months.
I'm sorry months.
I'm getting old months to years.
If you look at what we went through this year our JV partner announced their intention to get out of the JV and we did in the month of June.
So on July 1 we literally had to start over.
And MetLife's been a great business partner but it took time for them to establish teams in every city get them trained get the synergies working with our sales teams and sales management.
And there was this 90-day window in the third quarter where they were getting traction on their teams and taking care of our customer.
But the customers hey if you can't handle me -- and there were cities where MetLife literally told us "Don't send us the buyers yet we're not ready." I say that because Met has one of the highest customer satisfaction levels in the industry and they were sensitive in not taking on business that they could not handle.
So there’s a quantity concern and we took our time and a lot of the deliveries in the fourth quarter were sold during this window of transition.
And through the quarter MetLife performed well.
Their capture rate went up sequentially and is continuing to go up and we expect that the hit we took is now behind us that there's still some of it that we're working through.
But as we go forward we think we have far better predictability.
We knew that there were some moving parts in our fourth quarter relative to these outside lenders but it absolutely illustrated for me all the noise that you hear in the media about what buyers get put through to get qualified for a loan.
And when you're dealing with lenders that aren't your partner and it's just want loan of a hundred for them they don't have the priority and urgency unfortunately that we have.
And we have a lot of closings with last-minute surprises with literally in some cases at the closing table where customers were told they needed this document or weren't approved.
And just a lot of things that when you have your own preferred lender you don't have the deal with.
So we were surprised.
It was worse than we anticipated.
But now it's behind us and we think that we got a far better predictability going forward.
Research Division</strong> Got it and then second question.
I guess this is a little bit more theoretical.
On the prepared remarks Jeff you mentioned the cost of ownership being below the cost of renting with a lot of your markets at this point.
I'm kind of wondering as the product migrates up a little bit and you guys find land in committees where there's not a lot of land available and there's not a lot of inventory especially as you move up maybe a little bit more move-up buyer versus pure entry-level or whatever is the decision as much a question of existing home versus new home? I'm going to buy a home but what kind of home am I going to buy? Or is it more am I going to stay a rent or be a homeowner? And I'm just interested because we do put a lot of stock in this.
The cost of ownership is less than the cost of rental but it would seem to me that for a certain stage of life you're already past being a renter.
You already ready maybe to own a home at this point and maybe you're in a renter and you've had some life-change experience that would make you more prone towards ownership.
And now the question is where am I going to buy a distressed home a non-distressed home or a new home? And I'm just trying to get an idea how you're going to think about your buyer profile that way? I hate to answer this way David but I think it's all of the above.
What we are seeing is with more communities opening in more desirable submarkets you have higher income levels and we're selling expensive larger homes to first-time buyers in some cases.
So it's a consumer that over the frenzy of the 5 years ago elected not to be an owner.
They have good incomes maybe a dual income and want to live in that area.
And they're making the plunge because of the incredible affordability that's out there.
They make the decision to be a homeowner.
A lot of consumers are surprised frankly at how well home payments are compared to rent.
So it's an education process for others.
And when I say it's affordability that's driving it you need consumer confidence and job growth to sustain it.
So if you have the people that are comfortable with their economic situation they recognize the incredible values today and they make that decision.
But we need a higher level of confidence to get back to the traditional move upstream or first time buyer out of the rental.
I believe our buyer profile Jeff I don't know if you have the numbers but our buyer profile did not change much.
It's still 65% first-time buyer.
But it's a high-income first-time buyer.
That's what's different for some.
We will go next to Alex Barron with The Housing Research Center.
LLC</strong> I wanted to ask you as far as your market footprint I guess are you guys still comfortable with every market or is there any market that you are thinking of entering or any markets you're thinking of exiting at the moment? Well Alex we're comfortable with our footprint today and every city has to stand on its own.
The cities we're in are primarily Sun Belt they're cities that are projected over the long term to have favorable population growth and economic growth and there are cities that are compatible for volume builder.
So we chose them with intent and we like where we're positioned today.
We are not hung on staying in the city just to say we're in the city.
Over time it has to prove that we can get our returns and profitability in that city or we may elect not to stay there.
But at this time we're focused on growing our backlog and run the business.
LLC</strong> Okay and then I guess related to that I mean what are you seeing on the land side? Are you finding attractive land deals at pencil for your expected returns or are you finding that that's more difficult? And then just an extra side question can you tell us what percent of your sales are to FHA buyers? Jeff has a concern that's statistically Alex but our strategy of going to more desirable submarkets typically they are more land-constrained.
And it's not like you can walk down the street and identify parcels and turn them into revenue in 6 or 12 months.
So there's an inherent constraint and your success is tied to how good your land teams are on the ground.
Whether it's Texas or California where we spend about 75% of our money in 2011.
We have good land teams on the ground.
So the fact that we spent $478 million on land actual development tells you that we're finding deals.
But it's not everywhere we're having to work hard in minus and it's tied to how good our teams are.
Having said that we are finding deals that's penciled.
We're continuing to invest in our growth.
Yes regarding the FHA percentages historically we've run sort of in the mid-50s to low 60s in recent history.
The 1 caveat I'll put on that is we have less visibility to that number of course now after the inclusion of our JV the end of June.
So those numbers are sort of from the beginning part of this year and through 2010.
But I'd say they remain fairly stable and I would estimate this still in about that same range.
And we'll go next to Dan Oppenheim with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering in terms of the West Coast exposure talks about coast of California how much of your business would you like that to become? And to the next relatedly you talked about land being tough to find land and the entitlement process and such taking longer there.
How do you think about that given where the cash position and just sort of the ability to take on a lot more land? Dan if we could find 100 communities in the Bay Area tomorrow we'd buy them all and figured out because they perform well.
It's not -- there's this built-in constraint in that it's not readily available.
We'll continue to push the envelope there.
I think a great reflection of our success has been if you look at the year-end backlog in California it's primarily coastal California is up significantly year-over-year.
We've been able to grow.
And we'd love to grow more but there's a constraint because there's not that much land available as we prepared -- go ahead.
Research Division</strong> So are you saying you're looking for capital than if you can find the land now? We shared on our comments that we have adequate cash to run the business and we will allocate it to where the best returns are.
And as shared on the call that California typically has the highest gross profit.
So we like the returns there.
It's where we've been spending the money and that's the $478 million last year a big chunk of it was California.
Research Division</strong> Okay relatedly just wondering in terms of that.
I imagine it more or less going to end up being attached homes and such.
Are you comfortable with the risk in terms of increasing exposure to that area? Our product strategy primarily stops at townhomes or we've done 3 podium products that are delivering this year but not a lot in the queue.
It's not higher density stuff.
It's typically small-lot high-density detached or a townhome community that you can navigate through just like a detached home.
So it's not going to higher densities.
We're staying on our primary business model.
And Mike Widner with Stifel Nicolaus has our next question.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just kind of following up on that topic one of the things we continue to struggle when understanding the progression of you guys and the vision is you call yourself a merchant builder which sort of implies to some degree sort of land right.
I mean you're California-heavy so you're buying expensive lots and you're buying finished lots by and large.
So again even more expensive than kind of raw land.
All of that requires a lot of interest and a lot of interest carrying cost.
And I sit here looking at you guys carrying 5 years or so of land and just scratching my head and saying how do I reconcile that merchant builder with somebody with that much land and that much carrying cost on the land and how do I make it work? Well I'd have to say that our business model while we're a merchant builder it's morphed a little bit  to the market conditions that we're in.
We're doing well picking off these semi-infill locations in coastal California.
We got our 60 70 80 lot positions.
They're are not big positions and they're not taking years to bring to market once you tie up the land.
So you tie up the land -- they're not all finished lots by the way.
We are doing some development deals in California because of the seasoned tenure of our team and the confidence we have in them in hitting their budgets on the cost to developing the timeline.
But these are not long-term plays.
You go in you open the community and you get your cash out in a year or 2.
So there's this rollover of this infill product and then you have to balance it  where you can in the desirable submarkets and allow you to be more of a volume builder.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So I mean I hear that kind of heard that before.
If I just tie this back to the operating metrics that you talked about it sounds like between some additional cost-cutting rolling through and some kind of hoped-for gross margin expansion you're kind of hoping to get back to something in the marginally operating profitable level next year.
And yet we sit here and look and you guys are still expensing 45% of your interest.
And so I don't know how that's going to look next year but it's going to be somewhere in the realm of if it's anything that this year $0.60 to $0.70 of interest expense flowing through outside of the operating profitability line.
So again that just makes me wonder as I look at the book value having got cut in half in the past 2 years look at how the stock has performed this year and you guys saying hey everything is going to plan.
There just seem to be some conflicts here that I'd like to give you the opportunity to tell us where we we're wrong tell us where the market's kind of missing.
Again you threw a lot in there but we spent time talking about coastal California but we also have a very nice business in many other states.
And a good example of that is in Texas where while we can talk about high-priced California product we did a very nice addition in the second half of last year where we acquired the fieldstone assets in San Antonio in July and opened 9 communities before the end of the year.
It's going to be a very favorable impact on our business in 2012.
I think if you look at where we're at with our backlog and the momentum we now have and you couple it with the confidence we shared and where our business is going you can see the roadmap.
Maybe it's not clear to you but we have a lot of things going for us that we have not had in the years.
It starts with the backlog in the community position.
I don't know if you could give any more color Jeff.
I think when you start talking about book value the #1 detriment to book value is the on-off in the South Edge situation.
So it's separate from the operations and separate from the operating strategy moving forward.
And I think as Jeff said we're pleased with some of the progress we've made.
We know we have some work to do particularly on the margin line.
We're going to put a lot of focus on that.
The SG&amp;A we have a very high level of confidence and improvements next year especially on a ratio basis with more volume leverage coming as well as full year impacts from the cost reductions that we already have behind us and additional opportunity going forward.
So I think the combination of those factors is reason for our confidence going forward and that's what we're looking at as our base operations.
Our next question comes from Stephen Kim with Barclays Capital.
It's John Coil [ph] calling in for Stephen today.
Just regarding the commentary around average selling price growing next year.
Is this commentary specific to Southern California or is it more of widespread? No it's company-wide.
You can't say everywhere because we have a lot of communities.
But if you look across our regions this strategy of going to more desirable submarkets is in play everywhere.
So our ASP is lifting in all the regions and we have the expectation because of the type of product we're bring in to market.
Got it.
As far as the margin impacts specifically to the average selling price increase can you give a bit more color on that? It starts with a typical margin when we're underwriting a deal.
The offset to the higher price point is the land typically costs more too.
So playing at the higher price point doesn't automatically translate to a higher percentage profit.
It's how you execute through the community and whether you can leverage that buyer to grow the margin.
I don't know if you have any thoughts on that? No I don't.
I'm not sure where it's...
We'll go next to Stephen East with Ticonderoga Securities.
Research Division</strong> Jeff you've talked a lot about getting land in California and how hard it is in the coastal areas.
And you know that it's valuable.
And I see your absorption rates ramping up pretty strongly.
But your gross margin really hasn't followed along the same path.
Would it behoove you all to slow down the sales pace in the California markets and drive your gross margin higher on that? And just sort of your thoughts between that market on the gross margin approach in say Texas and your other markets? Our mantra Stephen is to optimize every asset.
We have strategy in place that sets an absorption rate at a margin that gets you the best return.
We are mindful of communities that are in submarkets that you can't replace and those will run slower and will push margin there.
And if you're in an area that's desirable but a lot of lots ahead of it you're running a little faster and work more on the returns in the cash side as opposed to maximize margins where every asset has its own strategy and I think we're not getting into the details I think we're doing what you are suggesting in a lot of the replaceable communities.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right I appreciate that.
And then just 2 other questions on the gross margin.
One given some of the gives and takes that you talked about in this quarter and what to expect in '12 one what's the gross margin embedded in the backlog now? And then two I know the energy efficiency has played really well in California.
Another builder that's trying to do it in Texas is struggling getting the consumer to pay for it.
Are you seeing a similar phenomenon in Texas? Stephen I'll talk about energy efficiency and Jeff can share his thoughts on the gross profit.
We're absolutely seeing buyer response to energy efficiency programs we put out there.
I can't speak to this other builder but we've been focused as I said in my shared comments or my prepared comments sorry I shared in my prepared comments we've been focused on driving energy efficiencies and value to the consumer without raising the prices materially.
We aren't seeing a consumer that will not pay for it unless there's an economic trade-off over a couple-of-year period where we're offering these net 0 option packages it's going to give us a real insight into the consumer's thinking going forward because they'll have a menu of things to pick from and can go every -- all the way down to no utility bills if they fully option it up.
So we'll know what the consumer is going to -- where they're going to migrate to.
But in the meantime much of what we've done has had no impact on price.
And then there are things that have moved price a little bit.
If you look at our solar program in SoCal where we were able to leverage our scale and relationship that frankly was created out of our concept home in Orlando last year where a solar company saw the benefit of linking up with a volume builder we got the solar panels at a great price.
So there's an incremental increase of consumer but it's more than offset by the utility savings and it's working very well.
So you're not seeing our prices go up $30 000 $40 000 in order to cover some exotic things that we put in the home and standard.
But we're very very tied to affordability stuff.
Any thoughts on the price? Yes on the backlog side and backlog question the VC [ph] backlog right now our variable contribution is about the same as we've experienced in the fourth quarter.
But I think it's very important to understand with our backlog both the value of the backlog as well as the contribution margin within the backlog.
Neither those include anything coming out of our studio process or generally.
So as our consumers are going into studio-making selections you see lifts and ticks in both of those numbers as they complete that process.
And that's one  of the reasons why if you look out for our company ASP and backlog we almost always surpass that in the following quarter because of that phenomena.
And if you get back to just comment on the inventory we cleared out to get -- add some focus on our Built to Order approach that inventory wasn't in backlog at the start of the fourth quarter and it did negatively impact to a slight degree our margins.
So we've also been able to eliminate some of that negative influence as the quarter unfolds.
And ladies and gentlemen that is all the time we have for questions today.
I'll turn the conference back over to Mr.
Metzger for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks Melody.
Thanks everyone for joining us today.
We want to wish all of you a very happy holiday season.
We look forward to sharing our progress and success with you as we head into the new year.
Have a great day.
And that does conclude today's conference.
We thank you all for joining.
Well good day everyone and welcome to KB Home's 2012 First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded and webcast on the KB Home's website at kbhome.com.
The recording will be available via telephone replay until 4:30 p.m.
Eastern Time on March 30 by calling (719) 457-0820 and using the replay passcode of 1668714.
The replay will also be available through KB Home's website for 30 days.
KB Home's discussion today may include certain predictions and other forward-looking statements that reflect management's current expectations or forecasts of market and economic conditions and the company's business activities prospects strategy and financial and operational results.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance and due to a number of risks uncertainties and other factors outside of its control KB Home's actual results could be materially different from those expressed and/or implied by the forward-looking statements.
Many of these risk factors are identified on KB Home's filings with the SEC which the company urges you to read with care.
The discussion today may also include references to non-GAAP financial measures as defined in Regulation G.
The reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and the Regulation G required information is provided in the company's earnings release issued earlier today which is posted on the Investor Relations page of the company's website under Recent Releases and through the Financial Information News Releases link on the right-hand side of the page.
And now it is my pleasure to turn the conference over to Mr.
Jeff Mezger.
Please go ahead Mr.
Mezger.
Thanks Kelsy and good morning everyone.
Thank you all for joining us today for a review of our first quarter results.
With me this morning are Jeff Kaminski our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Bill Hollinger our Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer.
I'd like to start off by saying that we are encouraged by the favorable improvement we are seeing in the national economy particularly on the jobs front and with consumer confidence.
We also believe the overall housing market is improving and is stronger today than a year ago.
As inventories continue to ease and prices in many markets have now stabilized we feel that a modest recovery in housing has indeed begun in many markets across the country.
Our traffic levels are up affordability remains very compelling and prospective homebuyers coming to our sales offices are appearing more confident than we have experienced in some time.
Specific to KB Home for the quarter many of our financial and operating metrics improved over the prior year with the exception primarily of net orders.
So this morning I want to begin by addressing our order results for the quarter which were impacted by a combination of circumstances.
We do not believe that our net order results are reflective of current market conditions and I also do not want them to cloud the underlying improvements in our business that I will discuss in detail during this call.
While our gross orders and traffic were up year-over-year net orders in the first quarter were 1 197 compared to 1 302 in the prior year a decrease of 8% or 105 homes.
There were 3 key factors behind this negative result that I will review: first a spike in the cancellation rate due to the unpredictability and lack of performance by mortgage companies other than our preferred lender MetLife; second our deliberate focus on improving gross margins; and third the impact of our strategic shift in geographic footprint all of which affected our sales results and year-over-year comparable for the quarter.
On our last earnings call we shared with you that we missed deliveries that we had expected in the fourth quarter as a result of the nonperformance of outside lenders which is a reference to mortgage lenders other than MetLife.
As December progressed and we diligently worked to close these homes we learned that even though the majority of these buyers had preliminary or full loan approval letters the lenders subsequently changed their commitment and would not fund the loan and therefore the customer could not perform.
In many instances we could not resolve the situation with our buyer and eventually canceled the sale.
In addition MetLife unexpectedly announced in the first week of January that they were immediately shutting down their retail mortgage operations further impacting our customers' ability to perform.
As a result of all of these we experienced excessive cancellations versus our expectations in the range of 140 during the quarter.
We have taken measures to remedy the situation.
In March we were pleased to announce that Nationstar Mortgage will be KB Home's new preferred mortgage provider which I will talk about in more detail in a moment.
A second factor influencing our lower net orders was the strategic shift in our focus to prioritize margin improvement over sales pace.
Coming into the new fiscal year we had accomplished our goal of having a higher backlog level to better support our business model and overhead levels.
With the backlog in place we have moved on to prioritizing higher margins.
Additionally in recognition of an improving housing environment we felt that it was the appropriate time to strategically rebalance price and pace particularly in our communities located in land-constrained submarkets.
This is what I referred to on our last earnings call as optimizing each asset.
We also applied this strategy to the unexpected inventory associated with the higher cancellation rate.
Contrary to the normal reaction of aggressively moving prices down to resell standing inventory we opted to raise prices on many of these homes which limited net sales to some degree in the first quarter.
We are now successfully selling through these homes at higher margins than we otherwise would have generated.
Overall we remain committed to our Built to Order model which is reflected in the mix of our gross orders during the quarter where Built to Order contracts were up 20% and inventory contracts were down 30% year-over-year.
Part of the reduction in inventory contracts is attributable to having less inventory available for sale at this time even with the cancellation issue.
The third factor that affected our year-over-year comp in sales was the evolution of our geographic footprint.
As we previously announced we have exited South Carolina and sold through the remaining communities in the first half of 2011.
Early last year we also made the decision not to invest further in the Charlotte market and we had essentially sold out by the end of the year.
Additionally we have intentionally reduced our community position in Arizona.
As a result our activity in this state is dramatically reduced from the prior year and will remain at low levels until the market supports new investment.
Between leaving South Carolina and Charlotte and downsizing significantly in Arizona our net orders for these markets were down 70% compared to the prior year or approximately 85 sales during the quarter.
To summarize while we were not expecting our first quarter net order comp to be in the elevated range we experienced during the third and fourth quarters of 2011 we were disappointed with a negative comp.
That being said our gross orders were up year-over-year.
And if you take into consideration the higher cancellations which accounted for approximately 140 sales and the reduced market presence which accounted for approximately 85 sales we would have been up by almost 10% over the prior year.
This is without including any impact of our shift in pricing strategy.
Our first quarter sales are typically the lowest level for the year and as a result a small impact to results can create a big percentage move.
Let me add one more observation on sales.
While monthly or quarterly sales comps can have a wide variation up and down the swings typically even out over a longer period of time.
In this regard and using the most recent 12-month public results released by our peer group KB Home ranked #1 among all peers in net order growth up a total of 582 units.
For us this unit increase represents a 10% order growth over the prior 12-month period.
I think it is important to reiterate that despite the factors that impacted our net sales in the first quarter the results are not a reflection of the housing market as a whole which we feel is improving.
I wanted to go over these factors in detail as we do not want our net sales over this 90-day period to cloud the many positive aspects of our actions as a company to improve our future profitability.
As I've said many times on these calls jobs and consumer confidence will be the key drivers of the housing recovery and both of these are trending positive right now.
In fact consumer confidence is the highest it has been in 4 years underscoring what we are seeing on the ground in our markets.
Although the housing recovery is uneven and very localized in some cases literally ZIP code by ZIP code inventories of unsold homes continue to ease and prices have stabilized in many markets across the country.
Affordability is strong with compelling prices and historically low interest rates.
In some of our submarkets we are finding that homebuyers are no longer expecting home prices to decline further which is creating some sense of urgency to buy now.
Additionally as rents continue to increase prospective customers in many areas are now recognizing that they can own a home for a monthly payment lower than their rent.
It is now common for me to hear anecdotes regarding the customer who is visiting our sales office because their rent just increased.
Having said all this there's a great deal of media hype about the housing recovery taking off like a rocket.
There's no question that things are better but we continue to maintain that it will take some time for markets to fully recover.
More importantly we are definitely getting better as a company.
We significantly reduced our net loss in the first quarter compared to the prior year.
Our deliveries were up 21% and revenues were up 29%.
Even with the negative sales comp our backlog was still up 30% at the end of the quarter.
As we aggressively pursue profitability we are continuing to reduce our overhead expenses enhance margins and strategically position our communities in highly desirable submarkets.
Our expectation for our average selling price is one of the most important takeaways of this call.
Here is a place in your notes for a double asterisk.
Our deliberate strategy of transitioning to more highly desirable land-constrained submarkets allows us to sell larger higher-priced homes driving a strong increase in our average selling price.
We were up 6% in the first quarter versus the prior year.
Going forward we expect our average selling price to continue to increase and to exceed an average of 240 000 for the year.
It's important to note that this increase is the result of strategic product and community positioning and not from additional price increases.
Illustrating the impact of the actions we have taken in the first 90 days of the year our margin and backlog has increased by roughly 200 basis points.
As this backlog converts to deliveries it will have a greater impact on our financial results especially in the second half of 2012.
We're encouraged by the progress we have made at KB Home during the first quarter as well as encouraged by the strengthening economy and housing market.
With a continued commitment to lowering our overhead costs and a strategic move that is creating a higher selling price we can reaffirm that we expect as much as a 500-basis-point improvement in our operating margin for the year inclusive of expected insurance recoveries that were discussed on our last call.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jeff Kaminski who will offer the details on our financials for the quarter.
Jeff? Thank you.
As Jeff mentioned although we had mixed results in the first quarter we still made progress in our pursuit to profitability and I will walk you through some of the details.
The company posted a net loss of $45.8 million or $0.59 per diluted share which narrowed substantially from the net loss of $114.5 million or $1.49 per diluted share reported in the first quarter of 2011.
The 2012 Q1 results included $6.6 million dollars in impairment charges while the 2011 first quarter included $1.8 million of inventory-related charges and $77 million of charges relating to our investment in the South Edge joint venture.
The first quarter of 2012 also included approximately $5 million of incremental interest expense as compared to the same period the prior year which I will talk about in a moment.
In the first quarter of 2012 KB Home delivered 1 150 homes an increase of 21% over the 949 homes we delivered in the same period of 2011.
The current quarter deliveries represented approximately 53% of our year-end backlog as compared to a backlog conversion of 71% in Q1 of last year.
This decline in the backlog conversion rate was the result of various factors including a higher level of un-started homes in backlog at the beginning of the quarter and lower spec sales and deliveries during the quarter both reflecting our sharpened focus on our Built to Order business model.
In addition the mortgage financing issues that Jeff discussed earlier also significantly impacted the conversion rate.
We believe we will see backlog conversions at a lower rate than the normalized 65% that we discussed during the Q4 earnings call until the transition to Nationstar is completed.
The average selling price of our homes in the first quarter was $219 000 compared to $205 700 in the prior year a 6% year-over-year increase which as Jeff mentioned is a reflection of our realignment of land investments towards higher-priced better located communities in stronger submarkets.
In addition our Built to Order buyers in these stronger communities are selecting larger floor plans which is driving both a higher average square footage and price.
The reduction from Q4 2011 was mainly the result of a mix shift between our divisions and the significant impact from the closeout of one community in 2011 that I will discuss in more detail when describing the gross margin variance.
The higher beginning backlog and the increased average selling price in the first quarter of 2012 partially offset by the lower backlog conversion rate resulted in total revenues of $255 million growing 29% from the $197 million reported in the same period of the prior year.
Our backlog at the end of February 2012 stood at 2 203 homes representing approximately $460 million of potential future housing revenues.
As mentioned earlier this represents an improvement of 30% over year-ago levels with value increases in all 4 of our operating regions.
Housing gross margin excluding impairments and land option abandonments was 12.3% of housing revenues compared to 13.4% in the first quarter of 2011 and 15.1% in the fourth quarter of 2011.
As we have shared community and product mix is a significant factor in margin variance between periods which is exemplified by the fact that on a sequential basis 140 basis points of margin impact can be attributed to a single community closeout during Q4 in Northern California namely our Redwood Shores community.
As we have discussed in the past this was one of our most successful communities in the country achieving margins approximately double the company average at sales prices of about $800 000.
We experienced an additional 230 basis points of sequential decline due to the negative leverage impact of lower volume in Q1 given our level of fixed field overhead expenses.
Partially offsetting these declines favorable pricing actions contributed a full percentage point of sequential improvement to the first quarter gross margin.
We continue to make progress in reducing our selling general and administrative expenses which are approximately $56 million in the first quarter of 2012 compared to $50 million in the first quarter of 2011.
As a percentage of housing revenues our SG&amp;A ratio improved by 3.3 percentage points in the first quarter of '12 to 22.1% from 25.4% in the first quarter of 2011.
Our consistent goal has been to align our overhead with current revenue levels and we are making progress as we continue to find new ways to reduce costs.
While personnel costs are not the only area of focus in our overhead reductions let me share with you that during the quarter our headcount is down an additional 58 positions a reduction of about 5% versus year end.
As compared to the end of first quarter of 2011 we are down almost 14% representing a reduction of 178 positions.
Turning now to the balance sheet.
During the quarter KB Home completed tender offers in which the company accepted for purchase approximately $340 million in aggregate principal amount of senior notes due in 2014 and 2015.
As previously announced we applied the net proceeds from a successful public offering of $350 million in aggregate principal amount of 8% senior notes due 2020 which closed on February 7 toward the payment of the accepted 2014 and 2015 notes.
We were very pleased with the execution of this transaction which generated a tremendous level of investor interest and was in fact highly oversubscribed.
As a result of these transactions we improved our balance sheet and financial position by extending over 1/3 of our near-term debt maturities.
With regard to the increased interest that I mentioned earlier the first quarter of 2012 includes a $2-million loss related to the early redemption of senior notes through the tender offers while the interest expense in the same period of the prior year included a $3.6-million gain on early extinguishment of debt accounting for the year-over-year variance.
Our total land and land development investment in the first quarter is approximately $113 million with a continued emphasis on desirable markets in California and Texas.
As always the investments for the remaining quarters will depend heavily on market conditions as the year unfolds.
As we said on our fourth quarter 2011 earnings call our intent is to manage our business to a cash-neutral position for fiscal 2012 and we are confident we have adequate liquidity to support our current business needs and remain opportunistic going forward.
Now I will turn the call back over to Jeff for some final remarks.
Jeff? Thanks.
As I mentioned earlier on the call we have announced that Nationstar will be our new preferred lender.
Nationstar is one of the nation's leading mortgage servicers with a current portfolio of approximately $107 billion representing 645 000 customers.
While we were exploring a new preferred lender relationship Nationstar was also interested in a strategic alliance with KB Home as a way to continue to grow their origination platform and feed their servicing business.
I am particularly excited about this alliance with Nationstar as the strategic goals and values of both companies are aligned and should ultimately provide us greater predictability in deliveries.
We anticipate that the transition of our business will be completed by the end of the second quarter and we should fully realize the benefits of this predictability by year end.
We believe Nationstar's reputation for outstanding customer service standards will help ensure a seamless home buying experience for our customers.
As we said in our last call it remains our intention to reestablish a long-term joint venture on the mortgage side which can provide not only the additional benefits in terms of predictability of closings but also operational and financial synergies.
While I focused my remarks during this call mainly on our sales and financial performance I do want to spend just a few minutes to highlight how we continue to set KB Home apart in the marketplace.
Our marketing and advertising programs constantly reinforce the benefits of our Built to Order approach and innovative energy efficiency initiatives.
Over the years KB Home has been known for our creative marketing campaigns such as our partnerships with Martha Stewart Extreme Makeover Disney and others.
This year we have teamed up with The Ellen Degeneres Show one of TV's highest-rated daily talk shows to demonstrate all of the elements of our Built to Order process by giving a new KB Home to a very deserving single mother in Houston.
The company will be featured on numerous episodes as we follow the lucky recipient through the process of selecting our home customizing it at the KB Home Studio and watching it built.
We specifically wanted to work with Ellen because we see this as an outstanding opportunity to showcase KB Home to millions of her fans across the country.
The response from the public has been incredibly positive with favorable commentary about KB Home on both our social network and The Ellen Show website.
Customers have come into our offices around the country commenting on what they have seen so far on the initial Ellen Show coverage.
We believe this campaign favorably exposes our brand nationally will generate traffic and sales and also allows us to give back to the community.
We're also continuing to lower the cost of homeownership for our buyers by expanding the industry-leading energy-efficient features we offer as standard in our homes.
Our strategy remains to increase energy efficiency in our homes without materially increasing the price to the customer.
Now that our energy performance guide or EPG has been out for about a year we are finding it to be an effective selling feature as customers are responding favorably to the prospect of lower energy costs.
In fact we recently invited our homeowners to take part in our marketing promotion on Facebook in which hundreds of our enthusiastic buyers were bragging about their energy bills which were posted for thousands of their Facebook friends to view.
As an example of some of the posts we received let me read one from Elvira G.
[ph] of Colorado who writes "My energy bill runs $118 per month where I was paying over $300 at my last home.
I am so happy about that." And this one from Sherika L.
[ph] from Nevada.
"My energy and gas bill is usually $80 each month combined way cheaper than when I was living in my one-bedroom apartment.
Thank you KB." These testimonials reinforce the impact of our energy efficiency initiatives to lower the cost of homeownership and that buyers are now getting it.
If the homeowners take the time to brag about it on Facebook we know our message is coming through and that the consumers are finding real value.
We also continue the rollout of our ZeroHouse 2.0 model homes that offer our buyers the opportunity to purchase a home that can generate as much energy as it consumes over the course of the year.
This initiative serves to elevate our brand and has helped generate significant traffic and interest in our communities.
At the same time all of the features that make up the ZeroHouse 2.0 are offered as individual options so we can determine over time exactly which options the consumer is willing to pay for and adjust our standard energy packages accordingly.
While we are not in this just to win awards we continue to be recognized for our sustainability initiatives.
Last week the EPA awarded KB Home with their highest honor the 2012 ENERGY STAR Sustained Excellence Award in recognition for continued leadership in protecting our environment through energy efficiency.
We are the first and only national builder to receive this recognition.
I'd like to thank the dedicated and hardworking employees of KB Home whose contributions and talents continue to move our business forward.
All of us at KB Home had been working diligently to position our company to achieve consistent profitability and future long-term growth and we are undoubtedly much closer to accomplishing these goals than we were a year ago.
Our strategy and actions remain the same.
We continue to stay focused on the customer leverage our growth platform align our overhead structure with projected revenues and strengthen our balance sheet.
As a result we believe we have the momentum to continue to substantially improve our operating results going forward.
Before I close let me reiterate the key takeaway messages from today's call: The overall housing market is better.
However it is definitely a localized recovery and don't expect it to be a broad-based rocket ship trajectory as it will take some time for overall markets to normalize.
As I said during my opening comments don't let the extenuating circumstances surrounding our net sales results cloud the significant improvements we have made as a company.
We have a stronger backlog in place with higher gross margins in this backlog that are up roughly 200 basis points in the first 90 days of the year.
This backlog provides us visibility to both increase deliveries and higher gross margin particularly as we go into the third and fourth quarters.
We have a new preferred lender relationship in place with Nationstar and we expect this to be a successful long-term alliance that will result in more predictable deliveries and higher customer satisfaction.
We expect our average selling price to increase throughout the year particularly in the second half with an average for the year in excess of $240 000.
As the year unfolds we expect to see ongoing year-over-year improvements in our deliveries average selling price gross margin and SG&amp;A ratio all of which will contribute to better financial results.
We expect that we will have a positive operating income for the year and we are reaffirming that our operating margin will increase by as much as 500 basis points year-over-year.
Lastly we expect to achieve profitability later in the year and to end this year with momentum.
We look forward to improved results and sharing our progress with you as the year unfolds.
Now we will open it up to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Michael Rehaut with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Will Wong on for Mike.
I was wondering if you could provide us with sort of the monthly orders sort of throughout the quarter in terms of December January and February.
And also if you could give us any color on what you're seeing terms of traffic in orders in the first few weeks of March how that's stacking up versus your expectations sort of both nationally as well as in sort of your main markets of California and Texas.
Okay Will in terms of the first quarter results they do get clouded because of the cancellation issue and the timing of when those occurred.
What we can tell you is the trends through the quarter were stronger each month over the prior month and our gross sales were up in each of the months.
So it's a fairly typical seasonal cycle where December is very soft relative to the rest of the quarter and then it gets stronger each month after that.
And past the quarter as you get into March and our sales results right now here are only through March 15 but as we look at March the same sequence was continuing where traffic is up and our gross orders are up.
And we think it's a fairly normal trajectory for the year.
But the first quarter number is difficult to totally gauge whether it's the can rate or some of the other things that I raised in my comments relative to our intent to raise margins and do that through better price.
On the regional side California is the tale of 2 states in that the coastal areas are performing well in particular Southern California right now where Orange County LA County San Diego County our sales are strong.
And if you go 50 miles inland it's very very soft right now.
So it's a great example of how localized this recovery is.
And I expect that to stay that way for a while in Southern Cal or Northern Cal where the coastal regions will do well.
There's less inventory; there's less price pressure; there's not as many foreclosures.
And it's where everybody wants to live.
So coastal is strong and as -- the further inland you get the softer it gets.
Relative to Texas which is in our central region we're very pleased with our business there.
Our sales in Texas as a whole were up 35% year-over-year and it was -- we were up in all 4 of the major cities.
So we're pleased with Texas and it shows you the impact that a solid job recovery can have on the housing market.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just as my follow-up can you share with us what the community count was in the first quarter? And also which -- some color in terms of what you expect that to be by year end? In terms of the community count we ended the first quarter of 2012 with 229 communities that were open for sale and that was about flat with the end of the first quarter last year and down slightly from year end.
We opened 8 new communities in the quarter.
We had 13 sold-out.
So a net change of 5 obviously.
We're still looking -- as we talked about during the last call we're still looking for the first 6 months of the year to open about 25 communities in total.
And it's -- I think an important point to note as we talk about communities is the rotation of the communities.
We are rotating to better submarkets and we have concentrated and continue to concentrate our investments in the stronger submarkets in the coast of California and Texas.
And we do see a higher revenue potential coming from those communities which as Jeff talked about we expect to drive our average selling prices.
For the remainder of the year we expect to see a slightly declining community count and we do expect to see a higher number to sell out and fewer openings over the remaining 9 months of the fiscal year compared to the same period in 2011 however with the better locations and a better potential for product mix and certainly the better margin opportunities of the new communities than what we're closing out of.
We'll move on to David Goldberg with UBS.
Research Division</strong> My first question I just want to try to understand with the backlog now and the transition away from MetLife to Nationstar have you kind of gone through the backlog and figured out "Okay this person is using an outside lender.
We've run -- we've kind of prequalified again -- them again to make sure they can get a mortgage"? So you don't have the situation where guys come to the -- families come to close on the house and all of a sudden they really couldn't qualify and this lender that they're using has backed out.
And do you have confidence with the backlog? Because it would seem like as Nationstar comes on it's going to take a while to get the majority of your buyers using them to close homes right? So this could be a problem as you kind of go through the year or so.
Just trying to get some comfort with how confident you are in the backlog and the ability to qualify given that you have a lot of outside lenders being used.
Sure.
David let me just reiterate it.
It's not as easy as they show up and you realize for 30 days that the buyers are no good.
We literally had buyers with firm approval letters.
But unless you call that lender's loan officer that signed the letter and ask "Hey are you really telling the truth here?" it's difficult to find this out until it's time to perform.
We have a very very good process in place that's been here for years to scrub the quality of the backlog before we start the home.
Our mantra here is we do not want to start the home unless we know we will get paid for it when it's completed.
So our controls are strong and the -- with the fluid nature of underwriting and some of these outside lenders that have large businesses and no real interest with KB Home or the Smiths in getting this one loan closed we've struggled with making it the priority for them than it is for us.
While -- I've shared with you that we have an intensive process in place.
We went deeper this quarter and flushed everything.
And I am confident that the quality of our backlog is far better than it was 60 days ago because we cleaned out things that we had been working on where we just decided this lender is not going to get there.
And we scrubbed it very well.
The MetLife capture rate is about the same in the quarter.
It was roughly 40%.
So you still do have a lot of outside lenders there.
But the divisions have reduced it -- the number of outside lenders that they're using.
We think we have even better controls than we did previously.
And we think the quality of the backlog is better but the other issue that's impacting the delivery percentage is there's a bigger percentage of this backlog that's not started because of our Built to Order push.
And over time in the business model typically 2/3 of the backlog hasn't started yet.
They're in the loan approval and customization process at the studio.
So it's not like you can take 100% of our backlog and say "Okay that's all closeable " because it's not.
And we think that we'll perform better going forward.
We don't think we'll get to normalized conversion rates until Nationstar has a high capture rate through their service efforts.
And in the meantime there is some bumpiness in our backlog but we think the worst is behind us.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just as a follow-up question.
I was wondering Jeff if you could talk about the competitive environment for land in the coast of California.
I mean we've heard from a lot of builders that are trying to get land especially in Southern California in the coast and are kind of frustrated because there's not a lot of land out there for them.
It sounds like you guys have been able to identify some opportunities that are somewhat unique.
I'm just wondering if you can talk about kind of who you're competing against how maybe you're finding some of these opportunities.
And is the market getting more competitive for land given that some of the coastal areas are performing better? A great question David.
And it's actually a point that I view as a real competitive advantage for our company in California.
We have land teams both in Northern Cal and Southern Cal that have been with this company for at least 20 years.
And with that experience and network you get deals that other people don't even have offered to them through working with the land owners and the banks and everyone that you've established these relationships with over a 20-year period.
So you get first look and maybe the only look at deals.
Most of what we buy does not hit the open market and get into the bidding work.
Once we are offered the asset one of our other strengths is the ability to work with municipalities to lower hopefully the fees or some other exactions or change the density a little bit where we can create value in that asset that other companies may not be able to.
So you get the asset first and then you've got some expertise that's unique in Northern Cal and SoCal due to your tenure.
And you contrast that with some of the markets that we're newer in like D.C.
We don't have that expertise and we're not the builder of choice when land comes to market.
And our team there will tell you it's very land-constrained while I know other builders are spending a lot of money on land in D.C.
So it really gets back to how good is your team on the ground in that location? In the coastal areas where it's land-constrained most of the deals are entitlement plays so it's not like there's finished lots on the corner and builders drive by and make an offer.
You have to go mine the land and work the asset to bring it to market through development.
It's a little different if you get inland in California where there are a lot of lots and in most cases it is far more competitive for the few that are available in a very good location in that suburb.
So it's kind of a mixed bag but it really gets down to how good is your team? And in California in particular we have great teams and we are able to get things done as evidenced by the $100 million-plus we spent in the first quarter.
Moving on to Bob Wetenhall with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> You're mentioning the goal of getting a 500-basis-point improvement in operating margin and I was hoping you could give us a breakdown between the improvement in gross margin relative to the improvement in SG&amp;A.
Sure Bob.
Yes we guided to the same number last quarter and we're still looking at a forecast that's supporting about a 500-basis-point improvement for the year in total.
We see most of that coming quite frankly from leverage on the SG&amp;A as our revenues are increasing.
We do expect to see some margin improvement through the year but most of that will be focused on the SG&amp;A line.
Bob if I could clarify a couple of things or expand on a couple of things.
As we open these new communities that we keep sharing pick California or the nicer suburbs of our Texas cities you're rotating to a higher price point yet you're still very affordable in that submarket.
So it's part of our strategy but it's not like we're going to second and third up product.
We're just moving to higher price range locations.
In our other markets or other communities where we're Built to Order and we have a broad footage range we are seeing the customers select larger homes than they were even a year ago.
So our footage is moving up in those cases because of what the buyer wants.
And I think it's a reflection of the first-time buyer and our mix didn't change so about 65% of our deliveries were to first-time buyers.
It's a higher-income first-time buyer because of the activity being in markets that are a little better off economically.
And they're buying a higher-priced home than they were a year ago.
LLC Research Division</strong> If you -- that's really helpful.
On the gross margin side if you have to specify in order of priority which factor is having the biggest impact on gross margin is it the shift to Built to Order model as a percentage of what you're selling? Is it the higher ASP? Or what's really driving that? And with that are we looking for a lot better upside in the second half of the year than the first half? Bob I think it's a little of all of the above if you ask what the components are.
And I'll expand on that here in a second and Jeff can pile on.
But to answer the second part of your question absolutely it is a driver in the second half.
And if you hold on percentage for a moment if our percentage held flat but our ASP goes up $20 000 or $30 000 you're getting more dollars of gross margin even at that percentage which also then helps leverage your SG&amp;A better because your revenue on the same unit is up significantly.
So we know we'll have more dollars of margin.
We think our new communities have higher margins.
We know our Built to Order sales have higher margins.
And we're not banking on any inflation because I've always taken the view if you get price it's because of the market being better and your costs are going to go up.
So it's the product shift that we're going through not because we'll be able to push price.
Yes well a couple of things I'd add Bob.
Just on -- from the point of view we mentioned in the script our backlog margins right now are up about 200 basis points from what we saw at the beginning of the year -- beginning of the quarter.
That's pretty significant for a number of reasons.
We do expect to see most of that impact coming in the back half as opposed to second quarter deliveries.
But we like what we're seeing there and we like the trajectory of the backlog margins.
Secondly a pretty significant impact within the quarter was the impact that I talked about for pricing actions and adjustments and that had about a 100-basis-point improvement as compared to the fourth quarter and I think that is a reflection of both the more disciplined approach on the business model a higher percentage of Built to Order versus specs.
And particularly within the quarter where we saw the cancellations that we had we didn't go out into dump specs as a result or in reaction to it.
So there's been a much more disciplined approach on the margin profitability side of our deliveries.
And Joshua Pollard from Goldman Sachs has the next question.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Jeff congratulations on being the very first builder to read Facebook messages on your conference call.
I think...
I don't have a Facebook account Josh so don't go look me up.
But we definitely track it as a company.
It's a phenomenal tool.
Research Division</strong> Well awesome.
My first question is actually around you guys shifting to more highly land-constrained market.
Obviously the focus over the last couple of years for you guys has been your balance sheet.
And I'm trying to understand how this shift to actually more than likely a longer period of time to market higher-priced land purchases and if you're doing so on California not really being able to utilize options -- how this fits into your strategy of keeping your cash flow neutral in '12 and ultimately repairing the balance sheet going forward.
Well Josh I'll let Jeff talk to cash projection and the balance sheet.
But just to clarify something we don't buy this land and then entitle it and improve the value.
We tie it up and then don't close on it until all the entitlements are in place and you've done what you can to improve the value.
So while it's not developed when we close we can quickly go to revenue as opposed to buying the land and then entitling.
So it's not -- this isn't a 3- or 4-year cycle to get to revenue.
Our mantra around here is to get to revenue even on these entitlement deals within 12 months of closing.
They're not large positions.
Most of these that I'm describing are 50- to 100-lot deals so you're getting your cash in and out pretty quickly.
And I think it reinforces that we've significantly rotated and are still guiding -- we'll do a lot of land spend this year but we'll be cash neutral because we're starting to pull the cash back out as the ones we've previously brought to market close out.
And in the first quarter we spent about $66 million on acquisition and development in California and all these -- the spend that we had we expect deliveries out of those assets within 12 months.
Yes I'll just reinforce what Jeff said.
I mean it's a matter of making the land investments and having that land turn.
At the same time is we're investing in California.
A very large percentage almost half of our business is actually based in California so we're turning a lot of cash out of previous land investments in the state.
That's going to fund future land investments.
So it does work from a cash flow basis and we have modeled it that way.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my second question is a 2-part.
First I want to understand what -- how many more communities like this California community that hit you guys by 140 basis points on the gross margin line? How many more communities are out there like that? Because it seems like some of the 2000 -- early 2009 land purchases may be beginning to roll off not just for KB Home but for the group.
I'm wondering to what extent we could see more of that from you all and the rest of the group.
And then the quick follow-up is 65% conversion you guys are expecting lower.
I'd love a better quantification to that.
Okay all right.
Josh let me talk to Redwood Shores again and then Jeff can get to the conversion side.
I would love to be bragging about 5 6 7 8 Redwood Shores.
There are just -- there aren't that many of them frankly in the country not just our company but in the country.
And with all the builders that you guys cover how many of them have a community with an $800 000 ASP with margins double their company average selling 6 7 8 a month? I mean it was an incredible success and we talked about it on prior calls.
We use it here because it truly did distort what was going on underneath our business.
I can tell you right now we don't have any other Redwood Shores out there today open for sale.
If I could find 2 3 4 5 more we'd be a great company.
So we're looking for them.
But we always have fluidity in the mix and I keep saying hey a delivery in San Jose not Redwood Shores but a $600 000 or $700 000 home at a 20% gross has a big impact on mix when it's offsetting a $150 000 house in Texas at a 17% gross.
So it can really move your numbers in particular in a lower revenue quarter like the first quarter.
And lastly the other thing I can add on Redwood this closed in '09.
We had this thing in the works for 7 years before we closed.
That's part of the strength we have in our land teams.
They help create value that took 7 years and actually powered through a cycle and still came out as an absolute grand slam.
So it's not something we just had late in our lap and we wrote a check in '09 and then opened it up.
Yes.
In reference to the conversion rates as we talked about we will continue the discipline of the company on our business model the lower levels of spec sales and deliveries that we contemplate for future quarters.
And also as the transition to the new mortgage provider and new preferred partner continues we do feel that the conversion percentage will stay in the 50s probably mid to high 50s for at least the next couple of quarters until we get some of those issues on the mortgage side behind us.
We'll now hear from Stephen Kim with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Quick question for you related to your inventories.
I was wondering if you could share with us sort of a pure sticks-and-bricks number.
I'm looking for basically work in process without the value of the land underneath the home.
Is that a number that you have available? It is not sorry.
Research Division</strong> Is that a number that we'll be able to get from you you think going forward? Well we do have disclosure in the K and Q that split the inventory out in detail.
I don't think we've ever split it really by sticks and bricks versus underlying land.
It's just not how our system is set up.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So when you -- just then switching gears if we can't get that when you look at your land spend you talked about $113 million.
How much of that was development versus actually acquisition of lots? In the first quarter of 2012 it was about 50-50.
Research Division</strong> 50-50 okay.
And as you look forward or rather when you look at your inventory of land that you have is there a way that you can give us a sense for how much of that land is developed? Maybe if you just sort of look across your land that you own the -- let's say the 33 million -- 33 000 lots that you own would you say on balance they're about half developed? Or is there a better way that you can help us understand what the amount of committed dollars already in those lots look like? Yes I would say half to north of half is developed land.
I mean we do have some that's held for future development.
Some of that land is held for a variety of different reasons.
But yes I'd say over half of it is developed.
Our next question will come from Ivy Zelman with Zelman &amp; Associates.
Research Division</strong> Realizing the improvement Jeff that you spoke of of your gross margins already in backlog as well as the onetime negative hit from the community that closed out one of my questions would be with the compression in margin is there possible changes in the business model that might be opportunistic with respect to the design centers studios knowing that those are higher-cost structures and might be adding to the compression in margins? Because even with the improvement you are looking forward to experience that would still be very much lower than your peer group recognizing gross margins aren't always apples-to-apples.
But the design studio I guess is a high-cost business.
I am wondering if in your strategy going forward if there's any potential change that can reduce that compression in margin.
Sure.
Ivy great question.
Let me just share for the group.
Our margins in the studio factor in the overhead cost of the studio and we view the studio as a tool to sell houses not to be a profit center but also not to be a drag.
So our margins in the studio cover the studio overhead and typically net out to our targeted normalized house margin and we continue to see on our Built to Order communities margins that are -- our Built to Order sales margins that are higher than our spec sales.
And while I share the cans we took we're going to have higher margin on the sales of that unexpected inventory it's still going to be below our Built to Order margins.
So we're committed to Built to Order.
We think over time that it will deliver a much higher margin than the spec model.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But what about the design studios and the costs associated with having design studios? Are you better off with -- you could still do Built to Order but not necessarily have design studios.
They're not especially mutually exclusive correct? Well in order to be a true Built to Order builder you have to offer the choice that we do.
And I'll hear other builders talk about being Built to Order but the choice there is do you want a home that's sheetrock? Or do you want the exact same home on this lot and we'll build it for you and you get to pick the color of the cabinet the color of the counters and the color of the carpet? And we offer a significant array of choice.
And we feel especially in these communities that we're getting into where there are higher price points it's even more critical that the studio is a vital part of it.
And as I shared the studios aren't a cost drag because the cost of the studio is loaded into the margins so it's not -- we actually think it helps our business.
And as we guided we do expect gross margin trajectory through the rest of the year and we think we'll have momentum at the end of the year.
Moving on to Dan Oppenheim with Crédit Suisse.
This is actually Will on for Dan.
Kind of going back to the gross margins again thinking about the community closeout in Northern California.
Just kind of where do margins go from here? And then I guess full year do you expect gross margins in total to be higher than '11? Or how are you thinking about that? Well as we talked about earlier we said that we did expect some gross margin improvement but most of the improvement in our operating margin did come from SG&amp;A reductions and SG&amp;A leverage.
So while we do expect some improvement that's really how we're looking at the blend right now.
We also expect the improvement to be more back half weighted as we're seeing the improvements right now in our current backlog.
Many of those backlog units will deliver out starting predominantly in the third quarter.
We may see some of those delivered in the third -- or in the second excuse me but predominantly in the third quarter and in the back half of the year with our new community openings.
We see that as being the major margin drivers.
Okay.
And then my follow-up question will be on headcount reduction and the improving trends.
Just trying to reconcile the -- trends are getting better and then reducing some of the headcount positions.
Just trying to understand how you're thinking about demand and making sure you capture some incremental demand going forward.
You're talking reducing headcount versus an increase in top line and the dynamic there? Or improving trends.
Just trying to understand the thinking behind reducing headcount if trends are improving.
Will the mantra on headcount is how do we do more with less? And as we've continued to share over the last few years on these calls we're finding ways to get leaner without sacrificing the strategic side of things.
And the strategic side would include not just the markets you're in but the people you need to take advantage of a spring coil.
So we've retained solid land teams.
We've retained the local managers and the headcount would be through consolidation of administration processes like purchasing or accounting and back-office things or just aligning overhead with where that market is.
If you're not going to deliver 500 homes and you have enough construction people for 500 but you have to align that with whatever your activity level is.
But those aren't the critically strategic need that we've retained over time.
So we're comfortable with the spring coil.
We think that our current team could handle double today's volume no problem so we're ready.
And ladies and gentlemen that is all the time we have for questions today.
Mr.
Mezger I'll turn the conference back to you for closing or additional remarks.
Thank you and thank you everyone again for joining us this morning.
Have a great day and we look forward to talking to you again soon.
And again ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today.
We thank you all for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to KB Home's 2012 Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded and webcast on the KB Home's website at kbhome.com.
The recording will be available via telephone replay until 4:30 p.m.
Eastern Time on July 7 by calling (719) 457-0820 and using the replay access code of 8933147.
The replay will also be available through KB Home's website for 30 days.
KB Home's discussion today may include certain predictions and other forward-looking statements that reflect management's current expectations or forecasts of market and economic conditions and the company's business activities prospects strategy and financial and operational results.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance.
And due to a number of risks uncertainties and other factors outside of its control KB Home's actual results could be materially different from those expressed and/or implied by the forward-looking statements.
Many of these risk factors are identified on KB Home's filings with the SEC which the company urges you to read with care.
The discussion today may also include references to non-GAAP financial measures as defined in Regulation G.
The reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to those most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and of Regulation G require information -- required information is provided in the company's earnings release issued earlier today which is posted on the Investor Relations page of the company's website under Recent Releases and through the Financial Information News Releases linked on the right-hand side of the page.
And now your host for today's call Mr.
Jeff Mezger.
Mr.
Mezger please go ahead sir.
Thank you Rufus and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today to discuss our second quarter results.
With me this morning are Jeff Kaminski our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Bill Hollinger our Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer.
My remarks today will provide you with highlights of the second quarter a brief overview of how we see the macroeconomic environment an outline of our growth strategies and review of our performance drivers to restore profitability.
Then Jeff will walk you through our detailed financial results after which I will make a few closing comments and then we'll be pleased to take your questions.
I'd like to begin today's call by saying that as our overall results reflect we continue to make significant progress against our strategic objectives.
Most importantly we expect to achieve profitability by the fourth quarter of 2012 and also for the full year 2013.
Before we discuss the macroeconomic environment let me share with you some of the financial highlights from the quarter.
Net orders were 2 049 up 3% year-over-year and up 71% compared to the first quarter of 2012.
While our net orders were up 3% the net order value of $503 million increased 18% year-over-year and 81% over the first quarter of 2012.
Our backlog continues to grow substantially.
We ended the second quarter with 2 962 homes in backlog representing $693 million in potential future housing revenues up 38% year-over-year and 51% over Q1 2012.
Our revenues grew to $303 million in the quarter up 11% from a year ago.
We significantly reduced our net loss to $24 million or $0.31 a share from a net loss of $69 million or $0.89 a share in the same period of 2011.
We generated positive net cash flow for the quarter while continuing to fuel future growth.
We spent $83 million on land and development growing our lot count by almost 1 600 lots from the first quarter of 2012.
We ended the quarter with our lot count up 21% from a year ago.
We are pleased with the progress of our transition to Nationstar our new preferred lender.
Nationstar began accepting new applications from homebuyers on May 1.
We've been very impressed with what we are seeing thus far and are confident that this alliance although it did not have a significant impact on our second quarter will have a positive impact on our business and financial performance in the future.
Before I discuss the second quarter results in detail I would like to provide you with our view of the current macroeconomic environment.
Sustained job growth and improved consumer confidence are key drivers in an economic recovery and both have demonstrated variability in recent months.
Job growth has shown signs of improvement although it is unclear whether this growth is at a level that will sustain an economic recovery.
We're also concerned that consumer confidence has now declined for 4 consecutive months.
I'm pleased to say however that the overall housing market appears to have largely stabilized and is moving into a period of recovery.
Real estate remains very localized and the pace of recovery varies by city.
Specific to the markets in which KB Home operates we are seeing improvements in virtually every one of our 32 markets across the country.
In fact dynamics have improved significantly over the past 90 days as compared to late last year or early this year with declining inventory levels and heightened consumer demand.
Prices have stabilized and in some select areas increased as inventories of unsold homes are down significantly from year-earlier levels.
Affordability a key driver in this housing recovery continues to be strong with attractive prices and historically low interest rates.
As a result we are observing a heightened sense of urgency among potential homebuyers.
We are seeing healthy traffic levels with customers appearing more confident in making a home-buying decision.
At the same time however mortgage availability remains challenging freezing some homebuyers out of the market.
As the recovery strengthens we are hopeful mortgage underwriting will become less restrictive which could unlock these potential buyers as well.
With the momentum we are building on our business and the Nationstar alliance gaining traction we are generating net order and revenue growth controlling our overhead expenses increasing our backlog enhancing margins and strategically positioning our communities with the right products in highly desirable submarkets.
Now with the housing market stabilizing and our markets in particular rapidly improving we are going on offense.
We have intensified our focus on growing the business across all of our regions through the following 4 strategic initiatives: First we are aggressively reinvesting in new land assets and communities with plans to spend approximately $350 million on land and land development in the second half of the year.
Second we are activating communities previously held for future development capitalizing on markets that have now stabilized where we know with confidence we can achieve desired returns.
We have identified 10 such communities primarily in Florida and Arizona representing nearly 500 lots.
We're in the process of permitting and constructing models to support opening these communities for 2013 deliveries and are continuing to evaluate our landholdings on an ongoing basis to identify additional activation opportunities.
Third we are increasing revenues per community by driving sales performance and also refining product offerings to larger homes and higher price points.
And finally we are strengthening our division management teams by bringing additional resources to the markets where we operate.
During the downturn we consolidated some of our divisions to gain efficiencies.
In turn now that the markets are recovering an expansion in the number of divisions is prudent.
As an example we recently divided our Northern California division into 2 separate management teams: one prioritizing the Bay Area and the other prioritizing the Sacramento Central Valley and Reno markets.
We are already seeing a positive impact from this change with the benefits of improved community performance and increased land activity far outweighing the incremental overhead.
We have established growth targets for each city with action plans in place and we are following up weekly with each division to track their progress.
As I said we are going on offense and this is our game plan.
Now taking a closer look at our second quarter as I mentioned in my opening highlights we are very pleased with Nationstar our new preferred mortgage lender.
Nationstar began accepting new applications from our buyers on May 1 and the integration is progressing as planned.
We are all very excited about where this opportunity with Nationstar can take us going forward and we expect this to be a successful long-term alliance that will result in better mortgage origination execution and a more predictable business flow.
The quality of our backlog the predictability of deliveries and the efficiency of our business requires a reliable mortgage partner.
As we reflect on the last 18 months we underestimated the impact that our mortgage relationships with Bank of America and MetLife had on our business.
We experienced a great deal of disruption in the mortgage process for our customers during this period first when Bank of America pulled out of our joint venture and subsequently when MetLife withdrew from the Residential Mortgage business.
At the time these lenders announced their intentions and started winding down their business they further tightened already conservative underwriting requirements.
Additional disruptions in the lenders' performance resulted from the turmoil associated with personnel departures.
While in wind-down mode neither lender had strong motivation to originate mortgage loans.
While it's difficult to quantify the full impact of the disruptions there's no question that it affected our business significantly.
Our Built to Order model which relies on the benefits and efficiencies of even-flow starts and deliveries was impacted as loan approvals were delayed or lost on the front end and closings were postponed or canceled at the back end understandably frustrating our customers.
Now that we have an alliance with Nationstar which is committed to servicing our customers' mortgage needs we can expect to see marked improvements.
Although we recognize that it will take some time for Nationstar to fully integrate and achieve its targeted 70% sales capture rate we expect to see significant positive impacts on our business with increased net sales fewer cancellations a better quality backlog enhanced predictability and improved profitability.
Turning now to our initiatives for enhancing revenues we continue to drive our strategy of moving into preferred submarkets where we are attracting higher end first-time and first move-up homebuyers who are purchasing larger homes.
As a result our average selling price continues to increase.
Our average sales price for the second quarter was $233 000 an increase of 9% from the same quarter of 2011 and up 6% over the first quarter of this year.
The primary driver of the increase in average selling price was in California where the second quarter ASP increased by almost $100 000 per unit up 33% over the same period last year reflecting our evolution in the more desirable coastal locations.
In the second quarter the average square footage of the homes delivered was approximately 2 100 feet as compared to the level [ph] of about 1 800 feet which occurred in the second quarter of 2010.
While we are opportunistically increasing pricing where we can the majority of our revenue increase per unit is tied to our favorable community locations and higher square footage homes being selected by the consumer.
And based on what we are seeing in our backlog we anticipate the trends of higher average selling prices and larger homes will continue going forward.
Our Built to Order business model enables us to seamlessly meet this emerging consumer preference for larger homes and focuses on value and choice for the consumer.
Not only the choice of floor plan and lot location but also the exterior elevation structural options and designer features.
Each buyers selects options which are specific to their lifestyle their wants needs and budget.
We believe our focus on providing the best value to the customer for a semi-custom-built experience which they absolutely desire drives demand and will ultimately result in our selling more homes at higher margins.
An integral part of the Built to Order model is the design studio where the homebuyers select their personal design features and structural options that truly customize the home.
Company-wide systems allow us to efficiently manage the studio and construction process at high levels of customer satisfaction.
While the primary purpose of the studio is to help us sell homes our studio pricing strategy is to set margins net of studio overhead that on a percentage basis are higher than the margins on the base home.
As the markets eventually normalize we are confident that the financial and operational benefits of our business model will become increasingly apparent.
Turning now to our net orders I would first like to review how our investment strategy and ongoing repositioning of the company has influenced our short-term community count trends which are a key driver in net order comparisons.
As we have discussed on previous earnings calls the majority of our land investment over the last 2 years has occurred in coastal California and Texas.
We remained optimistic about our other markets but we're not comfortable that they were demonstrating enough stability to ensure we would achieve adequate returns and therefore our investments were more limited in the Southeast and Southwest regions.
As I've already shared on this call we are now seeing a recovery emerge across all of our served markets and we are aggressively working to expand our community count in each of our markets going forward.
In the meantime we have been going through a repositioning where we've been closing out of a significant number of communities while primarily only growing community count in our Central and West Coast regions.
Jeff will give you more details on this in a few moments.
While our community count was down in the second quarter our net order performance per community improved which resulted in the overall increase of 3% in our net orders and net order value growth of 18% year-over-year.
This strengthening in net order value reinforces that our strategy is working and is why I am observing today that we are much better positioned than we have been in quite some time.
Our regional net order results reflect this strategic emphasis with the land-constrained markets in coastal California and the Central region performing particularly well.
Our West Coast region which includes our higher-margin coastal California communities and our slowly recovering inland locations had a net order increase of 11% and net order value increase of 31% versus the prior-year period.
A great example of our ability to enter the higher-priced land-constrained coastal locations is our newly opened Bay Area communities in Dublin a highly desirable land-constrained East Bay suburb with very good schools and located near major employment centers and transportation.
We opened 2 communities in March with strong sales from each at an average selling price of $462 000.
Also in our Central region which includes Texas and Colorado net orders increased 7% and net order value increased by 12%.
Boston and San Antonio continue to be 2 of the best housing markets in the company with net order growth of 29%.
We are retooling community and product offerings in Houston and Denver which are both showing consistent improvement and are positioned for future growth.
Southwest net orders were down 15% and the net order value was down 3% reflecting areas where we reduced community count as we discussed last quarter.
However in both Arizona and Las Vegas the markets are benefiting from extremely low inventory due to strong resell activity.
We are particularly excited about our Inspirada master plan development in Las Vegas where we have just grand opened 2 communities in the new village with sales prices and absorption rates well above projections.
In the Southeast region net orders were down 8% while the net order value increased by 6%.
This was the region most affected by the community count reduction associated with our strategic shift.
But the fact that our order value was up reinforces that our strategy of opening communities in more desirable areas is working.
Let me also share with you a couple of examples of how we are pushing new community openings as part of our strategy to grow our top line.
As we announced on June 26 we acquired 174 finished lots in Irvine California in the prestigious and highly successful Irvine Ranch master plan community.
This is a great example of how quickly we can move to open a new community.
We closed in June and in July we will be grand opening 2 communities with furnished models offering homes ranging in size from 2 000 to more than 3 400 square feet and priced from the high $600 000s to over $1 million.
We anticipate these communities will generate significant deliveries in the fourth quarter of this year and for all of 2013.
In the fourth quarter we'll be opening a new townhome community in the heart of downtown San Jose adjacent to Santana Row the nationally renowned redevelopment project.
With prices starting in the mid-$700 000s this is an affordable community given its premier Silicon Valley location and we expect it to be extremely successful.
We're also very excited about our upcoming opportunities in the Washington D.C.
market where we have 4 new communities grand opening in the second half of this year and where we introduced our net-zero model last week to enthusiastic consumer response.
These are just a few examples of the things we're doing to grow our revenue.
With improving markets the momentum in our business the integration of Nationstar and our intensified growth strategies we expect to be profitable by the fourth quarter of 2012 and profitable for the full year in 2013.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jeff Kaminski who will offer the details on our financials in the quarter.
Jeff? Thank you.
As Jeff mentioned we made progress in our pursuit of profitability during the second quarter of 2012 and I will walk you through some of the details of our fiscal quarter financial results.
Starting with the bottom line we narrowed our net loss by over $44 million during the second quarter as compared to the same period of the prior year.
The company posted a net loss of $24.1 million or $0.31 per diluted share for the quarter as compared to a net loss of $68.5 million or $0.89 per diluted share reported for the same quarter last year.
The 2012 results included $9.9 million of inventory impairment charges while the 2011 second quarter included $20.6 million of inventory-related charges.
Total revenues for the quarter increased to $302.9 million up 11% from the $271.7 million reported in the same period of 2011.
This revenue growth was driven by a higher average selling price and a modest increase in the number of homes delivered.
Revenues were up in 3 of our 4 geographic regions with revenues in the fourth region nearly flat with the year-earlier quarter.
Our West Coast region generated an increase of 24% and was the largest contributor to the year-over-year revenue growth.
Consistent with the guidance we provided last quarter our quarter revenues reflect a conversion rate of approximately 59% of beginning backlog.
We expect a similar conversion rate in our third quarter and more than 70% in the fourth quarter as we continue to transition to our new preferred mortgage provider and manage the business towards a strong close of fiscal 2012.
In fact we anticipate that the combination of our higher expected Q4 backlog conversion rate and increasing average selling price should result in a sequential jump in Q4 revenues by as much as 35% over Q3.
The average selling price of our homes increased almost $20 000 to $233 000 in the second quarter from about $213 000 in the prior year.
As Jeff mentioned this 9% year-over-year growth reflects both the realignment of our operations in land investments toward higher-priced better-located communities in stronger submarkets as well as the increasing square footage trend.
On a sequential basis we expect our average selling price to slightly improve in Q3 with a strong increase in Q4.
Our housing gross margin for the second quarter was 16.9% compared to 7.3% in the same quarter of 2011 and 9.7% in the first quarter of this year.
Excluding impairment and land option contract abandonment charges for all periods the second quarter housing gross margin was 20.3% compared to 14.9% in the second quarter of 2011 and 12.3% in the first quarter of 2012.
Our housing gross margin in the second quarter benefited from favorable warranty adjustments of $11.2 million that resulted primarily from positive trends in our overall warranty claims experience.
We are pleased that our past efforts to build high-quality homes and our solid track record in resolving claims on homes we have previously delivered were able to contribute a positive impact on our Q2 financial results.
We also recorded an insurance recovery of $10 million in the quarter.
This represents a partial settlement with an insurance carrier for previously incurred expenses relating to construction defects including Chinese drywall repair costs.
While our discussions and negotiations with our insurance carriers are ongoing as of the end of the second quarter we have not recorded any additional amounts for potential future recoveries.
We are starting to experience higher costs for labor and direct construction materials such as lumber concrete and drywall.
Through the end of the second quarter the impact of these higher costs has been offset by sales price increases which we have implemented in a majority of our communities during the first 6 months of the year.
We believe incremental price increases can continue to offset any further cost increases for the remainder of 2012 which should not result in margin erosion but maybe a headwind in relation to our margin expansion plans.
As I mentioned our current quarter housing gross margin was impacted by the warranty adjustments insurance recovery and inventory impairment charges.
Excluding these items our housing gross margin reflected a sequential improvement of 90 basis points as compared to the first quarter.
We are anticipating sequential improvements in gross margin in the third quarter and again in the fourth quarter when we expect a higher year-over-year comparison versus Q4 of 2011.
We expect the improvements will manifest these higher-margin homes in backlog are delivered in the second half of the year.
Our selling general and administrative expenses were $66.5 million in the second quarter 2012 compared to $62.5 million in the second quarter of 2011.
As a percentage of housing revenues our SG&amp;A ratio improved by 1.1 percentage points in Q2 2012 to 22.1% from 23.2% in the same period of the prior year.
The current quarter includes an $8.8 million non-cash charge resulting from a disappointing court decision in a Southern California contract dispute that we are appealing and intend to fight vigorously.
Excluding the legal charge our SG&amp;A as a percentage of housing revenues was 19.2% in the second quarter of 2012 reflecting improvements of 400 basis points year-over-year and 290 basis points sequentially as compared to the first quarter.
Our consistent goal has been to align our overhead with current revenue levels and we are making progress.
As we anticipate higher future revenues we expect to capture further improvements due to operating leverage as we grow our top line and control costs.
Our operating loss for the quarter was $15.5 million versus $57.5 million in the second quarter of 2011.
The operating loss as a percentage of homebuilding revenues for the second quarter is 5.2% compared to 21.3% for the second quarter of 2011.
Excluding impairment and land option abandonment charges the operating loss percentage improved to 1.9% from 13.7% in the second quarter of last year.
We expect to continue to report positive operating earnings for the full 2012 fiscal year excluding impairment and land option contract abandonment charges.
In relation to our operating margin utilizing the operating income or loss number from our GAAP statements the improvement should be well over 500 basis points as compared to the prior year.
As you know we have a number of favorable and unfavorable items impacting our operating results in both 2012 and 2011 including impairments legal recoveries and charges a gain on the sale of an apartment complex warranty adjustments and the loss on loan guarantees.
After adjusting our operating results for the impact of these items in both years we believe we still will reflect a year-over-year improvement in the operating margin of between 400 and 500 basis points.
Moving to the community count we ended the quarter with 217 communities opened for sale compared to 227 communities a year ago.
During the second quarter we opened 14 new communities and had 26 closeouts.
It is important to note that a number of the communities that sold out during the quarter were some of the weaker-performing legacy communities and less-preferred submarkets generating relatively low margins.
We are currently planning to open about 25 new communities during Q3 and Q4 and as we mentioned we are actively pursuing additional opportunities to acquire land and develop land already owned to support additional top line growth in 2013.
The number of closeouts in the second half of the year will obviously depend on the sales pace but we do expect the community count to decline in Q3 with plans to increase the count as we start our new fiscal year in preparation to the 2013 spring selling season.
Our total land and land development investment in the second quarter was approximately $83 million following first quarter investments of $113 million.
We've increased our lot count by more than 4 500 lots since the beginning of the year ending the quarter with about 45 000 lots owned and controlled.
As Jeff mentioned earlier with signs of improvement in the housing markets we have plans to aggressively pursue land acquisition and development.
Our plans are to spend closer to the top end of our previous guidance of $400 million to $600 million for the year and our current estimate is approximately $550 million.
As always the investment levels for the remaining quarters will depend heavily on overall housing market conditions and specific land opportunities.
We were pleased with our cash performance during the second quarter and our ability to increase lot count and still generate positive cash flow.
We realized a significant year-over-year improvement in cash management generating $20 million of positive operating cash flow in Q2 2012 as compared to $110 million of net cash used by operations in the same period in 2011.
We anticipate that we will see a dip in the cash in the third quarter reflecting our planned land and development investments and will be cash neutral for the full fiscal year.
Now I will turn the call back over to Jeff for some final remarks.
Thanks Jeff.
Before I open the call up for questions I want to reiterate today's key takeaway messages.
The markets in which we operate demonstrated increasingly favorable supply and demand trends as the quarter developed.
We're excited about our alliance with Nationstar as the transition is progressing very well and gaining momentum.
We expect Nationstar to achieve their targeted capture rate of 70% of our new buyers as we are entering 2013.
This should enable us to achieve improved net sales fewer cancellations greater predictability of deliveries and better mortgage banking customer service and ultimately increased profitability.
We have a strong backlog in place as we enter the third quarter up 38% year-over-year with $693 million in potential future revenues at higher gross margins.
We expect our average selling price to continue to increase as our product mix and strategic community shift in the higher-priced submarkets is proving successful.
I want to reaffirm that we are expecting an average selling price of over $240 000 for the year.
With our operational momentum and the markets improving we are going on offense and I have personally made this my top priority.
We are aggressively investing in land assets and communities activating communities in stabilizing markets increasing revenues per community and strengthening management teams with additional resources.
All of us at KB Home are committed to restoring consistent profitability and achieving our long-term growth goals.
I'd like to thank the dedicated and hard-working employees of KB Home whose contributions and talents continue to move our business forward.
Looking ahead we expect to see further improved results in the second half of the year particularly in the fourth quarter with ongoing year-over-year improvements in our deliveries gross margin average selling price and SG&amp;A ratio all of which will contribute to better overall financial results for the remainder of the year.
With this momentum we expect to achieve profitability by the fourth quarter and to be profitable for the year in 2013.
With that I'll take your questions.
Rufus? [Operator Instructions] And for our first question we go to David Goldberg with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Hi this is actually Sue on for David.
I wanted to get some more details in terms of the gross margins.
You noted that you are basically offsetting the higher costs that you're seeing for labor and materials with the price increases.
Can you give us some sense though of how much of the price increases are going to this and are any of them just going down to the bottom line to actually improve the underlying margins? Jeff go ahead.
Yes okay sure.
The first thing I'd like to say I mean just looking at the margin for the year we do expect sequential improvements in both the third and the fourth quarter and we do expect favorable year-over-year comp in Q4.
What we saw last year and I think it is important to remind everyone we did have a $7.4 million warranty adjustment in the third quarter of 2011.
And that benefited our gross margin by about 200 basis points last year.
So there are a few things impacting the margin now turning to this quarter.
We had a 90 basis point improvement of course versus the first quarter of 2012.
That includes all the warranty and insurance recoveries.
It was up about $9 million actually in dollars as a result of our rising ASP which we thought was an important thing to note.
It was about what we expected.
We talked about that last quarter and we did talk about the improvements in the back half.
Turning now more specifically to your question on the labor and material prices.
We think we had cost increases of about $1 200 a house.
And we did offset we believe actually incrementally maybe just a little bit more than that with the pricing.
So we are taking pricing opportunistically but it has been relatively modest across the board.
And we're moving it carefully on a month-to-month basis for a number of reasons including being able to assure we can appraise our houses when we sell them.
We are seeing continued improvement of margin in our backlog and we should see that recorded gross margin as we deliver out those units in the back half of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my second question is just trying to get some sense around your confidence in the backlog.
The cancellation rate moderated very nicely during the quarter despite the fact that you were still in the process of getting Nationstar integrated and you're still going through that.
Do you think that most of the noise though in terms of that integration is behind you? And we should just continue to see it come -- the cancellation sort of moderate as we go through the year? So let me make a few comments.
We shared on our first quarter call that we had gone through an exhaustive scrub of our backlog at that time and we felt our backlog was in much better position heading into Q2 than what we dealt with in -- at the end of the year in the first quarter.
Nationstar really didn't have much of an impact on our backlog in Q2.
That's a go-forward benefit that will be seen.
Our can rate actually settled to the range that we've historically seen over the years may come down a little more with Nationstar over time.
I don't know that we're really counting on that.
What we do know is that we'll be able to hold and continue to improve the quality of the backlog going forward.
For our next question we go to Michael Rehaut with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question appreciate the guidance in terms of the back half of this year and into next.
And I just wanted to kind of do a little bit of a sanity check very helpful in terms of the backlog conversion and revenue comments.
But it would seem that to get to profitability in 4Q and also profitability in 2013 that you'd be looking towards a much more meaningful improvement in gross margins than you have demonstrated in the second quarter.
And when I say that I'm talking about excluding the -- both the land impairment charges as well as the one-time benefits that the 2 different benefits you had.
So right now you're around 13% -- a  little over 13%.
I mean it would seem that you'll need to get at least in the mid-15s if not 16% in the fourth quarter to hit profitability and also for that matter at least around 16% in 2013.
Is that something that's achievable and makes sense to you? Yes.
Mike let me make a couple of comments and I'll hand it to Jeff for the math.
It absolutely makes sense to us or we wouldn't share it.
We did include in our prepared comments that we're going to have a crossover in gross margin in the fourth quarter where we will be above year-over-year.
And I also guided that we expect an ASP for the year of over $240 000.
So you can do the math on where we think our ASP is headed in the back half of the year versus what you've seen in the first half of the year.
So we have momentum with better product at higher price points and higher margins in backlog and that's how we're projecting the crossover later in the year.
Jeff anything else you want to add? Sure.
Yes I had a few things.
The -- number one I think you are thinking Mike about the margins in the right direction.
As Jeff mentioned last year fourth quarter we did 15.1%.
And you were north of that with your comments and I think that's thinking about it the right way.
We did mention last quarter in our backlog -- inherent in our backlog we're up about 200 basis points from year end.
We're now up about 250 basis points from year end.
And those deliveries will be closing out in the fourth quarter so we are anticipating an increase there.
And we're also increasing a pretty sizable jump in revenues.
We believe our backlog conversion rate will be higher in the fourth quarter.
We'll see a higher ASP in the fourth quarter.
And the combination I think on the margin side and the leverage impact on our SG&amp;A coming from the higher revenues will produce a result that we're forecasting.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And second question on the order trends.
Last quarter it was very helpful when you broke out that the spec business was down 30% and the to be built was up 20%.
I wanted to know if you had a similar type of impact or trend in the second quarter.
And more importantly you've been -- looking into the back half you have a year-ago comp dramatically more difficult than in terms of year-over-year growth that you saw in 2011.
Do you expect the order -- I would think that perhaps the year-over-year order growth may decelerate or slip back into a negative territory in the back half particularly with your community count comments.
Is that the right way to think about that? Or if there are other kind of variables that we're missing? Because I believe you said also that the Nationstar would not necessarily materially further help the can rate from this point.
Mike that was more than one question.
But I'll do my best because you rattled a lot off there.
First back to Nationstar I would expect our community can rate may moderate a little bit but we're already back to historical levels and can manage it.
There's no question we had a strong second half in sales last year so we'll see how we're doing.
We're not going to do -- we're not going to give guidance on this call.
And underneath that what you can tell from our comments is we're continuing to push significant revenue growth through the order value being generated.
So if you look at Q2 units up 3% in revenue or sales value I call it up 18%.
So it's a very nice trajectory that's still driving our top line.
For our next question we go to Bob Wetenhall with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask about how you intend to fund your pretty sizable land spend.
I think on your prepared remarks you said you're looking to put out approximately $350 million of new land spend during the back half of the year.
And I was also trying to understand I think Jeff Kaminski's remarks about being cash neutral for the year and where you would see year-end cash balance.
Right Bob.
As we said last quarter we had a range $400 million to $600 million on land spend and we've been talking pretty much consistently all year that we anticipate a cash-neutral year in 2012.
We do see consistent and improving operating performance as a first priority of our balance sheet strengthening strategy.
We were pretty pleased with generating positive cash flow this quarter albeit on a lower land spend.
But nonetheless in a quarter where we typically have a net usage of cash we were quite pleased with that.
So that was helpful for us.
We do -- we definitely have current -- currently sufficient liquidity around our business.
We're able to be flexible and opportunistic with potential new investments.
Jeff spoke of a few pretty sizable investments in fact during the prepared remarks that we think will bring nice revenue and margin growth to the business in the future.
The focus on the business right now is returning to profitability purchasing and developing land to support our top line growth going forward especially as we're seeing the markets improve.
Maintaining adequate liquidity is an absolute focus of ours and strengthening the balance sheet.
And we do think we can do those things together.
If we have to make trade-offs as we go through the year and we see some great land opportunities that will bring growth to the business especially in the short term we may prioritize that a bit over the cash-neutral stance that we're taking in order to reap the benefits from that.
But overall our financial forecasts support it.
We're in store for a pretty sizable revenue increase in the fourth quarter and in addition to the profits that that will bring it will monetize a lot of the land investments that we already have in the floor.
And we've been doing a pretty good job of churning through the land and reinvesting I think over time so that's the game plan going forward.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
Bob if I could reinforce a couple of things.
As you know in our business cycle the fourth quarter is an absolute ATM in terms of generating cash and we're projecting revenue increase over last year.
And last year I think it was $200 million or $250 million in cash we generated just in the fourth quarter.
So -- and part of our normal rhythm there's a lot of cash coming in over the second half of the year.
And I also wanted to reiterate what Jeff shared.
While we're saying that level of land spend cash neutral if we were to drop $40 million or $50 million because of some great opportunities in the fourth quarter we're going to chase the opportunities.
It doesn't put our company at risk at all.
We have ample liquidity.
We're going to run the business.
Business is stable and improving markets are stable and improving and we're comfortable with our liquidity position.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess going on offense right? Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just -- if I could just get a little more granular on your gross margin performance.
If you had to rank it in terms of where the upside is coming from in the second half of the year is it better ASPs is it lower incentives or is it the benefit of the closeout of lower-margin communities from a mix standpoint? If you had to rank those 3 in terms of providing upside what's the real driver? Well I think it's all of the above Bob.
It's hard to identify just one thing.
We're not an incentive-heavy company in the first place.
So that you won't see a lot of margin enhancement because of incentives.
But the communities that we have opened today are frankly far better than those that we closed out of the year ago.
So we have the natural margin expansion of our newer communities at much higher sales prices.
We're not banking on inflation.
We don't anticipate.
I always take the view if you get a little price it's covering costs because costs go up when price goes up.
So there's no banking on the markets giving it to us.
It's through our hard work.
We go next to Joshua Pollard with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> This is Anto for Joshua Pollard.
For the Arizona and Florida where are the activation opportunities that you see? And related to that as you un-mothball these communities how much of a margin dilution do you expect coming from these communities? Great question.
We've actually seen some situations where submarkets have rallied where the activation actually comes in at a normalized margins.
I don't know that we would say that in all of them.
And it's a balance.
It's not just the margin.
It's how much cash do we get out.
The Arizona activations are in the Phoenix Metro area.
And in Florida it's Central Florida around Orlando and headed down toward Sarasota.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
On the issue of adding additional resources can you talk us through how you figure that flow-through to operational leverage? Because the gross margin opportunities are slightly better than laid out.
The thing that we can get a little bit more clarity on is how you figure on operational leverage as you add those additional personnel.
Okay let me give you a little geography lesson relative to my comments on Northern Cal because we have one division covering that territory that ran from San Francisco to Reno and 70 miles north of Sacramento all the way down to Fresno.
And it wasn't physically possible in a business like ours for that team to optimize the management of the marketplace.
We knew that when we made the decision in that we knew we weren't going to be acquiring a lot of new communities in the Central Valley until the markets had settled down and stabilized.
And we went into asset management mode in the Central Valley and pushed growth in the Bay Area and that was the team's primary focus.
And as the Central Valley Sacramento Reno are now improving if you need local boots on the ground as I call it to be out hunting for new deals and in the sales offices and understanding the competition while your Bay Area team is focused on finding the next Dublin deal or the next Santana Row where the margins are incredible.
So you continue to push your business in the coastal California area and the incremental cost for the management that you've added in the Central Valley you get back with the first community that they identify and along with better execution on a daily basis in the stores that are open.
I don't know if you want to give him any math on that.
Sure I'll just add a little bit to it.
I mean it comes down to redeployment of resources as much as anything.
I mean you still have the construction supervisors out there in a well-spread geographic region.
When you split it it's the same resources out the field.
We did what we could to lean up the old operation that included both divisions.
When we split it so obviously we split out some resources.
And on an incremental basis it really wasn't that much of an increment on the SG&amp;A side.
It's a very nice outcome in that example.
And for our next question we go to Ivy Zelman with Zelman &amp; Associates -- Research Division</strong> When you talk about the land spend going forward we've seen a heated land market especially on desirable finished lots and a concern by the investment community that builders are going to have to pay up for those lots or expand into less desirable locations BNCs [ph] and actually going -- we've seen an increase in activity on the raw undeveloped or partially developed and titled side.
And so wondering if you can give us some maybe direction or transparency.
As you're talking about acquiring as much land as you are your views of the land market and maybe some benchmarks in terms of are you using the absorptions in your underwriting that you're currently running at what are your assumptions on underwriting them? And at what percent of revenue would you say that the finished lot cost would be running? And will you go to undeveloped because that's really not been part of your strategy so understanding if you can break that down.
That's the first question please.
Sure.
What -- as I always say Ivy and you and I have talked about it every market has a little different story in your questions.
On the -- in terms of finished lots that are readily available and everyone chases there's no question in A locations those are hard to come by today.
That's typically not where we find our lot deals.
Most of our acquisitions are those that were created to our local land teams that have a network with sellers banks developers other builders on communities that frankly may not ever even hit the market.
And through your relationships you're able to mine things that way.
We've been doing development deals in coastal California for a couple of years.
And it's an area of expertise that I think actually is a competitive advantage for us in California.
We wouldn't be as interested obviously on development deal further inland where you may not have the same financial returns.
And I compare and contrast that to Houston where there's -- there are lots on the ground around the market that you can acquire today in A locations where while land prices are up they're not up to a point where you can underwrite and get your returns today.
If you go over to San Antonio and Austin it's a little more land-constrained and a little more development-oriented.
And again there we have a great team on the ground that's been doing development deals over the last year or 2.
And so it's a mixed bag across the system.
There's no question that it's tight.
If you have good teams on the ground you can still find opportunities.
And we have a significant level of deal flow that we're looking at right now to make sure that we invest appropriately in the right deals.
We are not banking on price.
It has to underwrite with the current market conditions whether sales-paced or price assumption in that submarket.
So no price no increase.
We're not banking on anything getting better and it has to hit our return hurdles today which we have not compromised.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And Jeff just a follow-up in terms of the current land that you own and control can you tell us of that just a breakdown of what's finished and what's either partially developed or being developed or just starting out undeveloped? And then also how many communities are mothballed currently as a percent of all communities that will come on that might be part of the growth going forward? Okay.
Ivy I'll try to give you some numbers there.
As far as owned land that's not under option we have about 13 000 lots.
We have lots under option about 12 000 and we have about 19 000 lots held for future development.
I don't have that broken down specifically by community but it's pretty sizable amount in each of those categories on a go-forward basis.
So it's about $1 billion of 13 000 lots about $1 billion homes under construction land under development currently in the balance sheet plus the other 2 categories.
Was that 2 separate billions? And we go next to Dan Oppenheim with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering you talked about a very positive environment clearly better trends from buyers more predictability with the mortgage issues being resolved here going on offense.
I guess just thinking about that can you talk about with the land acquisition how you'd pursue some of those at the expense of potentially being cash flow negative for the year? Given the much stronger environment why not do something to add more dry powder in the near term to then enable you to do that and to ease some of the worries about the balance sheet? Well Dan for starters we didn't say we'd be cash flow negative for the year we just said we'd be cash flow neutral spending a pretty significant amount of money on new deals in the second half of the year.
We're not going to use the $350 million as a cap though.
If that -- if we spent $350 million and it's cash flow neutral we have a lot of dead cash on our books frankly because we are not putting it to work and it's way more than we need to run the business.
So we would err on the side of -- if we used a little more cash but it was a great opportunity we would do it.
And at this time we're not even discussing the ability and capability we have if you wanted to go do some kind of financing deal with the seller and all that.
We look at these deals first and foremost right now as a cash play because we want to get the highest margin possible.
But we're very comfortable with our liquidity at this time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess you talked a lot about coastal California and I think you said East Bay and Dublin in terms of higher margins on that.
And such when you're looking at those projects how much more you're willing to do? And clearly I think Ivy had mentioned in terms of a heated market and how are you thinking about margins on some of these communities if you -- as you look forward? Clearly there's been some price appreciation as of late.
X that appreciation where do you think you can go in terms of margins on new acquisitions there? Well let me give you another example Dan.
I said you're only as good as your land team on the ground in my response to Ivy.
The 2 communities that we just acquired from Irvine aren't communities that any builder could come in and acquire.
They're a very relationship-oriented company.
And frankly they came to us first because of all the great business we've done together over the years.
Up in Dublin or the Bay Area we have a land team that's been in place almost 20 years with a phenomenal track record of getting things entitled and navigating through that maze at a level that most companies in California could not do.
So there's ways we can generate opportunities especially in California where we've been so long and are so tenured that other people just couldn't get done.
Our typical approach has been to focus on IRR first and our range has been around 25% IRR.
D.C.
needs to be at least 17% or 18% on that IRR which would equate to a little over 20% growth.
And if I had to give you a math trade-off between D.C.
and the IRR it would need to be above 40%.
So if the IRR is 20% the margin's got to be higher.
And if the IRR is 25% you'll take a little bit lower margin.
And we haven't changed on that.
And what's always interesting to me while there's no question the housing markets are getting better the land sellers figured it out first.
So land prices are going up every bit as fast if not faster than home prices are.
And that's why the margins -- I don't think we'll see much margin expansion.
We go next to Adam Rudiger with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just to make sure I understand the whole Nationstar impact can you describe the selling process or maybe the closing process if that's more important pre-May 1 and post-May 1 just so we really understand exactly how this can positively impact your business and how it can streamline the buying process for the buyers? Certainly Adam.
Pre-May 1 I can paint you a picture at the depths of despair in Met.
While MetLife was winding down their capture rate was actually below 25%.
75% of our customers were being directed outside to a lender who had no interest in frankly supporting KB Home.
And that that loan could be one of thousands they would have under process.
And if you reflect back on my comments on our business model where we're a little different is we get the loan approved before we start the home.
And then it may take 3 months to build and close the home from that point in time.
So a loan officer doesn't get compensated until the home closes 4 months later.
When it's an outside lender their priority is how do they get paid this month.
And giving us a loan approval for a start isn't always their top priority.
So we had no alignment whether it was MetLife because they were winding down or BofA before them or with all these outside lenders who didn't have the same desire to build a business with us that Nationstar now does.
So as we've rolled over to Nationstar and they're out taking loan apps and building their teams and they took whatever was left of the MetLife pipeline which I think was about 25% of our business at the time they are now giving us the daily process and daily reports that we used to have where we can get approvals every day to start a home and then in turn project out closings and have a more predictable closing process.
So the processes are now in place with them.
They're just now ramping up the capture rate.
And that's why it'll take some time before we see the full benefits.
But we're very excited about what they've done to date.
They've delivered on every promise.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so when you think about your orders relative to your peers where they've shown some -- and even let's look at it on a per-community basis some stronger growth recently do you attribute all of that or most of that to Nationstar? Or are there any other factor or to a lack of mortgage partner recently? Or are there any other factors that you think are explaining some of the differences? I certainly believe that our mortgage situation impacted our sales whether gross or can rate in the in turn net.
It's very hard to quantify.
I know if this thing gets fully up and running we'll sell more houses.
I think on a per-community basis that our sales are typically in the higher end of the range among builders and that's where we were last year as well.
So I don't know that because of -- we've been fighting this Nationstar thing for a while and actually been doing relatively well per community.
I think you'll now see us lift a little bit.
So the caution is it'll take some time for Nationstar to have full impact and it'll get a little bit better each month that goes by.
And coming out of the year we think that they'll be there.
And we do have tough comp coming at us in Q3 and Q4 so we'll see how the 2 quarters unfold.
And with that ladies and gentlemen we will conclude our question-and-answer session.
And Mr.
Mezger I will turn the conference back over to you for any closing remarks.
Thanks again Rufus and thank you everyone on the call for again joining us this morning.
Have a great day and we look forward to speaking with you again soon.
Thank you.
And again ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the KB Home 2012 Third Quarter Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded and webcast on KB Home website at kbhome.com.
The recording will be available via telephone replay until 3:30 p.m.
Eastern Time on September 29 by calling (719) 457-0820 and using the replay pass code of 7442358.
The recording will also be available through KB Home's website for 30 days.
KB Home's discussion today may include certain predictions and other forward-looking statements that reflect management's current expectations or forecasts of market and economic conditions and the company's business activities prospects strategy and financial and operational results.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance.
And due to a number of risks uncertainties and other factors outside of its control KB Home's actual results could be materially different from those expressed and/or implied by the forward-looking statements.
Many of these risk factors are identified in the KB Home's filings with the SEC which the company urges you to read with care.
The discussions today may also include references to non-GAAP financial measures as defined in Regulation G.
The reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and other Regulation G required information is provided in the company's earnings release issued earlier today which is posted on the Investor Relations page of the company's website under News Releases on the left-hand side of the page.
I will now turn the conference over to Mr.
Jeff Mezger.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Anne and good morning to everyone.
Thank you for joining us today to discuss our third quarter results.
With me this morning are Jeff Kaminski our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Bill Hollinger our Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer.
On today's call I will take you through highlights of our third quarter financial results then I will provide insight in the KB Home strategy and business evolution over the past few years after which I will provide you with an update on our progress to position the company for profitability and long-term growth.
Jeff Kaminski will then take you through our detailed financial results after which I will make a few closing comments.
And I will be pleased to take your questions.
The most encouraging theme I want to express during this call is that we are making real and substantial progress towards our objective of profitable growth.
We are pleased with our third quarter results which reflect improved performance on all of our key financial metrics.
Our third quarter revenues increased 16% over the same period last year.
We generated positive operating income.
And our net income for the quarter was $0.04 a share as compared to a loss of $0.13 a share for the prior year.
We grew our backlog substantially ending the quarter with $745 million in potential future housing revenues a 33% increase over the prior year and the highest third quarter backlog level since 2008.
Net orders increased in both units and value with value for the quarter increasing 16% over the same period a year ago.
We reduced our SG&amp;A ratio significantly and improved our gross margin.
We ended the quarter with $467 million in cash and invested $187 million in land and land development.
While we still have more hard work to do our path to profitability is now clear and we are turning our focus to also driving top line growth.
Turning back the clock to 2009.
We recognized at that time that our top priority was to rebuild a profitable foundation for the company.
We elected to withdraw from many markets that were not achieving returns and we reduced our investment in other key markets until they stabilized.
Many of the markets that we decided to exit had been entered late in the peak years of the last cycle which made it extremely challenging to be profitable in those markets as the downturn continued.
We narrowed our focus to our core markets where we had greater scale stronger management teams a proven ability to execute and a great brand.
The markets in which we operate today generated around 26 000 deliveries in our peak year so we believe we have retained a substantial growth platform we can leverage as the housing market continues to gain momentum.
Most notably we maintained our strong #1 position in California by a wide margin which is a significant competitive advantage for KB Home that I will elaborate on further during the course of this call.
In essence our strategy was to concentrate on fewer markets with larger businesses in key submarkets with the right product while retaining a spring coil for growth.
This evolution has taken time to manifest in our financial results as we continued to reduce overhead build margin and bring our SG&amp;A into alignment with revenues.
But clearly we are turning the corner in 2012.
As a result of our actions during the past few years we are positioned to be profitable at much lower delivery levels.
We now have a much higher average selling price a higher gross margin and our SG&amp;A ratio is approaching a more appropriate level.
The fundamentals of our business are much stronger as a result of this evolution.
In fact now that we have a clear path to profitability we are ready to leverage our current structure and business model for meaningful growth.
During our last call I made the statement that KB Home is going on offense.
I want to explain a little further what I meant by this because it is much more than just increased spending on land.
Having positioned the company for profit Going on Offense is my rally cry for growth.
Now it is time to start moving forward again as a leaner more efficient better positioned company to take advantage of a market that is clearly recovering.
It is a fresh mindset and it is energizing for our team.
Around the company I am encouraging everyone to be bold and aggressive in pricing gross margin enhancement model opening timelines land acquisition and compression of cycle times.
As I said last quarter going on offense is my personal #1 priority for this company.
We have established aggressive growth targets for each of our operating divisions and are monitoring performance against those targets.
Part of this growth strategy is to continue to drive a higher average selling price through investing in choice locations within highly desirable and more affluent submarkets where we are modeling larger floor plans with more structural options.
As a result we are tracking first-time and first move-up homebuyers who have higher incomes and who in turn are selecting floor plans and structural options with larger square footage leading to a higher average selling price.
As this strategy has been deployed our average selling price has increased on a year-over-year basis for 9 consecutive quarters now standing at $245 000.
This is an 8% increase over the same quarter last year and as impactful is up 5% over the second quarter of this year.
The average square footage of homes delivered in the third quarter was 2 117 up over 160 square feet versus the third quarter average in 2011.
Based on our current backlog we project that the trends of higher average selling prices and larger homes will continue going forward.
This product positioning and geographic evolution is working and is the primary reason we are generating significant average sales price growth.
Along the way when the market will allow we are also opportunistically increasing prices.
While we are on this topic let me make one thing very clear.
We remain committed to our core consumer segment the first-time homebuyer which constituted 67% of our deliveries in the third quarter.
We have not shifted from our core.
We are simply attracting a different mix of first-time homebuyers in this market environment.
To further illustrate our commitment to this segment since the first quarter of 2011 our average selling price has gone up nearly $40 000 or 19% while our percentage of deliveries to first-time buyers has remained constant.
Turning now to community count and net orders we recognized that growing our community count is a key driver for unit growth.
And as we discussed last quarter we are focused on this as a top priority.
As we shared on the last call we are working through a short-term trend of closing out communities more rapidly than we are reloading new communities.
This has resulted in a temporary reduction in community count in the quarter of about 13% year-over-year.
It's important to note that despite this short-term decline in our community count we still achieved a positive year-over-year sales comp of 3% versus an extremely strong 40% up in the third quarter of 2011.
This result illustrates our stronger sales pace for community which in the third quarter was the highest it has been in years.
Looking forward we anticipate that our community count year-over-year will be down in the fourth quarter given the number of communities at the start of this quarter that had only a few homes left to sell.
Notwithstanding the lower community count we have a goal of achieving a slightly positive year-over-year sales comp again in Q4.
This will be difficult to achieve given the 38% increase in net orders reported in Q4 of last year but it is our goal.
With the momentum we have in growing our average sales price a slightly positive unit comp would still generate a significantly positive sales value comp.
Going forward we are targeting sequential community count growth for all of 2013 beginning with the first quarter as current land acquisition and development activities are converted into open communities.
As we continue on offense with our plug-and-play product series we are able to go from identified lots to models opened very quickly.
Just this week at our investment committee meeting we approved 6 communities that will provide deliveries in 2013 in Northern California Arizona and Las Vegas.
As we move through 2013 and beyond we expect the combination of a growing community count a high sales pace per community and the maturation of our relationship with Nationstar to provide real growth opportunities.
Now I would like to provide some regional color.
As I have already mentioned the market recovery is clearly gaining momentum in all 4 of our geographic regions.
I am particularly excited about the opportunities we are seeing in our own backyard right here in California.
I have often referenced on these calls our top-performing California coastal communities that have maintained their high prices sales pace and high margins throughout the downturn.
While demand remains extremely strong in the coastal markets in the Bay Area San Diego and Orange County and coastal L.A.
County I'm especially pleased to report that we are now seeing dramatically improved market conditions in the inland regions as well.
It's simply a different market than it was 6 months ago in the inland areas as inventories have declined significantly and prices are now rising.
Earlier this week The Wall Street Journal reported on the August resale data and observed that 13 of the 15 cities with the largest year-over-year declines in inventories were located in California.
The drop in inventory range from a low of a 40% reduction in San Jose to a high in year-over-year inventory reduction of 60% in Oakland which represents the East Bay.
Inventory declines of this magnitude are normally a precursor to strong price gains.
This market dynamic will be a real tailwind for our company if the trend continues.
Our West Coast region is a true engine of growth and profits for KB Home.
It is our largest business with our highest level of land investment in highly land-constrained markets and features seasoned management teams that execute at the highest levels.
To further emphasize the point on our California potential for the first 9 months of this year our average selling price in California increased to $377 000 up $55 000 or 17% increase compared to the same period in the prior year.
Moving to our Central region which includes Texas and Colorado we continue to see strong sales in San Antonio and Austin which are arguably 2 of the best real estate markets in the country.
We are currently ranked #2 in each city.
And over the past 12 months we have grown our market share more than any other builder.
The markets remain solid in Houston Dallas/Fort Worth and Denver as well and this region continues to be a strong growth driver for the company.
The Southwest region our smallest region on a revenue basis features markets that are now in full recovery with significant demand at lower price points and very low levels of inventory.
Our Las Vegas business continues to be a shining star for our company generating strong community sales pace at high margins.
In particular we are pleased with the results at our Inspirada community where we posted 52 net sales in the quarter from 3 product lines.
In the Southeast Raleigh remained a solid market driven by job growth and we are working to open more stores.
And in our 3 major markets in Florida Tampa Orlando and Jacksonville we're now also benefiting from an accelerated recovery.
We continue to expand our presence in the Washington D.C.
market with 3 grand openings planned during this quarter.
In addition to our improved operating performance and these favorable market trends we're also extremely pleased with Nationstar's progress.
Since the transition commenced on May 1 the Nationstar capture rate on new sales has been steadily increasing month-over-month.
Their capture rate on sales is already approaching 60% and they are definitely on track to achieve the 70% or more capture rate by year end that we have guided.
While the Nationstar percentage of deliveries was low in the third quarter we are already seeing a favorable impact in the form of more predictable performance as compared to other lenders.
Nationstar has been meeting projected dates for approvals and closings and so far has experienced fewer cancellations.
Going forward we expect to see significant positive impacts on our business with a better quality backlog enhanced predictability improved efficiencies and higher customer satisfaction levels as this capture rate on sales converts to deliveries in 2013.
Let me now update you on the 4 key growth initiatives behind our Going on Offense strategy.
Our first initiative involves plans for aggressive investment in new land assets and communities.
And during the third quarter we invested $187 million in land and land development.
As we guided on our previous earnings call we anticipate that our land spend for the second half of the year will be in the range of $350 million.
My direction to our land acquisition teams has been explicit.
If we identify opportunities which would cause us to exceed $350 million in the second half we will aggressively pursue those investments.
While the highly preferred submarkets are typically land constrained we are successfully finding opportunities that align with our strategy.
We have seasoned land teams on the ground that are leveraging our strong local relationships.
Two great examples of this are acquisitions we recently closed and announced this quarter.
The first was in Danville California a highly desirable very land-constrained city in the East Bay; and the second Mason Ranch in Austin which provides more than 1 000 lots and a master plan in one of the city's premiere submarkets.
The second initiative we outlined is our plan to activate communities previously held for future development.
Last quarter we identified 10 communities primarily in Florida and Arizona representing nearly 500 lots.
All 10 of these communities are well under way with model openings and sales timelines that provide for 2013 deliveries.
In recent weeks we have targeted an additional 11 communities the first phases of which represent 550 lots that we are processing for reactivation.
Our expectation is that the majority of these additional communities will be opened and generating sales by the end of 2013.
It is very encouraging to get more of our asset base working for us once again.
The third initiative we have been focusing on is increasing revenues per community by driving sales performance and refining product offerings for today's consumer.
We conduct intensive weekly reviews of community performance to optimize revenues margins and sales pace and have established a practice such that any division which does not meet its weekly sales goal is required to participate on a sales strategy review call with senior management.
I personally participate on these calls each week.
The fourth initiative we have been driving is bringing additional resources to the markets where we operate to further strengthen our division management teams while leveraging our existing infrastructure.
Last quarter we told you about our decision to divide our Northern California division into 2 management teams: one prioritizing the Bay Area and the other prioritizing the inland markets.
While this was a recent change we are already seeing tangible benefits in both regions.
During the third quarter we made a similar move in Southern California where we split the division team into 2 management teams: one to prioritize the coastal markets and another dedicated to the rapidly improving inland empire.
These types of actions are not limited to California.
We have now commenced the split of the Central Texas division into 2 management teams one each for San Antonio and Austin.
In addition we have augmented our land acquisition teams with 15 additional hires in the last 4 months to enhance our land search and acquisition efforts.
We have established specific growth targets and timelines for each division and we are continuing to evaluate markets to determine the optimal management structure and dedicated resources needed to achieve our goals.
Going on offense is bringing out the best in all of us.
We are seeing tangible results from our intensified growth strategies and remain committed to growing our business increasing our revenues and enhancing our profitability.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jeff Kaminski who will provide details on our financials in the quarter.
Jeff? Thank you.
As Jeff had said we are pleased with the third quarter improvements in our financial metrics and our reported bottom line profit for the quarter.
At the same time we remain focused on opportunities to further improve several areas of our business to continue to drive favorable results in the fourth quarter and into next year.
During the third quarter we generated net income of $3.3 million or $0.04 per diluted share as compared to a net loss of $9.6 million or $0.13 per diluted share for the same period of the prior year.
The 2012 results included $6.4 million of inventory impairment charges while the 2011 third quarter included $1.2 million of inventory-related charges.
Total revenues for the quarter increased to $425 million up 16% from the $367 million we reported in the same period of 2011.
Our revenue growth was driven by a higher average selling price and an increase in the number of homes delivered.
Housing revenues were up in 3 of our 4 geographic regions compared to the prior year with the West Coast and Central regions up by 18% and 14% respectively and our Southeast region reporting an increase of over 31% driven by significant improvements in Florida.
In our Southwest region where we had previously pulled back on land investments housing revenues declined by about $4 million or 10%.
As we guided last quarter our third quarter revenues reflect a conversion rate of approximately 58% of beginning backlog.
We expect to reach a conversion rate of about 70% in the fourth quarter and still anticipate a significant sequential increase in Q4 revenues of around 35% over the third quarter.
The average selling price of our homes delivered during the third quarter increased to approximately $245 000 representing a year-over-year increase of about $18 000 or 8%.
On a sequential basis it increased by more than $12 000 or 5% versus the second quarter of the current year.
The average selling price increase in Q3 extended our trend to 9 consecutive quarters of year-over-year increase.
These improvements primarily reflect the result of our solid progress in transitioning toward communities located in more desirable submarkets with higher income buyers selecting larger homes with more studio options.
We expect our average selling price to continue to increase in the fourth quarter and we are on track to achieve an average selling price of over $240 000 for fiscal 2012 as we have been guiding since the first quarter of this year.
Our housing gross profit margin for the third quarter improved 60 basis points to 17.5% compared to the 16.9% reported for both the same quarter of 2011 and the second quarter of this year.
Excluding impairment and land option contract abandonment charges for all periods the third quarter housing gross margin was 19% compared to 17.2% in the third quarter of 2011 and 20.3% in the second quarter of 2012.
We recorded an insurance recovery of $16.5 million in the quarter representing a settlement with an insurance carrier for previously incurred expenses including costs associated with Chinese drywall.
This third quarter recovery represents a conclusion of the negotiations with an insurance carrier relating to this issue.
Our gross profit margin in the current quarter was favorably impacted by this insurance recovery.
As you will recall in the second quarter of 2012 our gross margin reflected a related $10 million insurance recovery along with a favorable $11.2 million warranty adjustment.
Excluding these items and inventory-related charges in both quarters we realized a sequential improvement of 190 basis points in our housing gross margin as compared to the second quarter in line with prior guidance.
As a reminder we also realized 90 basis points of sequential improvement in Q2 versus Q1 that we discussed during last quarter's call.
In terms of adjusted gross profit dollars we have improved by approximately $10 000 per delivery in the third quarter compared to the first quarter of 2012 reflecting the significant improvement in our average selling price and the overall improvement in our gross profit margin percentage.
We continue to experience higher costs for labor and direct construction materials.
In the first 3 quarters of 2012 we have been able to offset these impacts with sales price increases implemented in a majority of our communities.
Despite these cost pressures we still believe that the positive momentum of the past 2 quarters will continue and we anticipate improvements in our fourth quarter gross profit margin on both a sequential and year-over-year basis excluding the same items I referenced earlier.
This should also result in a positive year-over-year comparison of gross margins for the second half of 2012 giving us momentum as we enter 2013.
Our selling general and administrative expenses were up only slightly to $63 million in the third quarter compared to $60 million in the third quarter of 2011.
We were very pleased with this result considering that our top line increased by over $57 million and the Q3 2011 SG&amp;A expense benefited from a legal recovery of $8.3 million.
Sequentially as compared to the second quarter 2012 our total SG&amp;A decreased by about $4 million with an increase in revenues of over $120 million.
This decrease in expenses was primarily due to cost containment initiatives and the $8.8 million legal reserve recorded in the second quarter.
This progress is an example of the operating leverage potential that we believe we have in our current business structure and we expect to realize further gains as we continue to grow our revenues.
As we guided on our last call as a percentage of housing revenues our SG&amp;A ratio improved both sequentially and year-over-year.
In fact the Q3 2012 ratio of 14.9% was the lowest third quarter level since 2007.
Looking ahead we expect to see both sequential and year-over-year improvements in the fourth quarter.
Our operating income for the quarter increased to $10.9 million compared to $1.4 million in the third quarter of 2011.
Operating income as a percentage of homebuilding revenues for the third quarter improved 220 basis points to 2.6% compared to 0.4% for the third quarter of 2011.
For the first 9 months of 2012 the operating margin increased by 880 basis points compared to the same period of the prior year.
As we have previously discussed we have recorded a number of favorable and unfavorable adjustments in addition to inventory-related charges that have impacted our operating results in 2012 and 2011.
In 2012 we had favorable warranty adjustments and insurance recoveries and a charge associated with an unfavorable court decision.
In 2011 we had a favorable warranty adjustment a legal recovery a gain on the sale of an apartment complex and a loss on loan guaranty.
After adjusting our operating results for these items in both years we have realized a year-over-year operating margin improvement of 390 basis points for the first 9 months of 2012.
Entering the final quarter of '12 we remain on track to meet the lower end of our targeted range of 400 to 500 basis points of improvement for the full year.
Moving to our community count.
We ended the quarter with 203 communities opened for sale compared to 233 communities at the end of the third quarter of 2011.
During the third quarter we opened 11 new communities and had 25 closeouts and we are currently planning to open over 20 new communities during the fourth quarter.
We're actively pursuing additional opportunities to acquire land and develop land already owned to support additional top line growth in 2013 and beyond.
During the third quarter we invested approximately $187 million in new land and development including land acquisitions partially funded by seller financings and remain on track to invest a total of about $550 million for the fiscal year.
Our expectation is that our community count will be down again in Q4 and we are targeting sequential community count growth for all of 2013 beginning in the first quarter as land acquisitions and development activities are converted into open communities.
We were very pleased with the execution of the new debt issuance and tender offers which we completed during the quarter.
The debt was issued at favorable terms which reflects investor perception of our improved balance sheet as well as the continuing strength in the debt markets.
We extended the maturities on roughly $245 million of debt and increased our cash position by approximately $92 million net of expenses.
As compared to the third quarter of 2011 we have significantly improved our debt profile through the transactions executed this fiscal year.
We have extended the maturities of a majority of the near-term bonds.
And as a result at the end of the third quarter our ratio of unrestricted cash to 4-year maturities was 1.01 and our next maturity which is not until 2014 is an easily manageable $76 million.
During the third quarter we generated a positive operating cash flow of $14 million versus a cash usage of $39 million in the prior year an improvement of $53 million.
For the first 9 months of this year our operating cash flow improved by over $230 million compared to the same period of 2011.
We ended the quarter with $467 million in total cash.
This provides us with ample liquidity to run the business and still allow for both planned and opportunistic growth.
We anticipate that our cash position will grow further during the fourth quarter even with the elevated land spend.
In summary while we recognize that we have more work to do we are realizing improvements in our key operating and financial metrics.
We believe these improving trends in combination with significant progress in the mortgage lending situation and our Going on Offense growth strategy provide a clear road map to achieving and sustaining full year profitability in 2013 and beyond.
Now I will turn the call back over to Jeff for some final remarks.
Thanks Jeff.
Before I wrap up my comments I would like to thank all of the hard-working employees of KB Home whose contributions dedication and talents continue to propel our business forward.
Now before we open the call for questions I want to review today's key takeaway messages.
We now have a clear path to profitability and we are gaining momentum in our financial and operational measures.
Our investment strategy and product repositioning is working.
And as a result we are growing revenues and margins through dramatic increases in our average selling price while at the same time remaining committed to first-time homebuyers as our core consumer segment.
We're on offense and pursuing our growth targets through our 4 key strategic initiatives involving investment activation execution and people.
The housing market recovery is accelerating as inventory continues to decline and prices are now rising.
In particular we are excited about the dramatic improvement in market conditions in California where we are currently the largest builder by a wide margin and we can really leverage opportunities.
We expect our community count to grow as we head into 2013.
And the combination of this increasing community count with our high sales pace per community and the benefits of Nationstar will drive future unit growth.
As a result of all of these efforts we expect that we'll be profitable in the fourth quarter of 2012 and to be profitable for the year in 2013.
With that I would like to take your questions.
Anne? [Operator Instructions] We will take our first question from Joshua Pollard with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I have a couple of questions because I really want to make sure that investors understand what you guys are doing in terms that we like to have them.
You walked through your 4-point plan and a number of things that you guys want to do.
Can you put some financial and operational numbers around some of those targets? You talked about larger square footage.
You talked about higher ASPs.
You talked about more options more affluent markets.
Can you dig into some of the operational metrics and how we should see those change over 2013? I understand what you just said about EPS.
I think a lot of people would love to understand that that includes and excludes adjustments but also some of the core operational metrics that we should be looking for that gets you to that profit in 2013.
Okay well we haven't shared any guidance for '13 yet Josh.
I can share with you some of the expected trends as our strategy continues to play out.
We think the higher sales price will hold.
We shared that we expect it to be higher in Q4.
And with that you have better leverage of SG&amp;A.
We always are trying to find ways to be more efficient but the heavy lifting is done on SG&amp;A.
We think the ratio will continue to improve going forward primarily out of leverage.
On the gross margin side we continue to expect our gross margin to trend upward both in percentage and dollars because our ASP is continuing to rise.
And the point I tried to make clear on the call is our prices are not going up because of market conditions they're going up because we're a better company and we're far better positioned with better assets today.
So it's a real meaningful shift in price point while at the same time we're staying committed to the first-time buyer.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
If I can just follow up to that.
There has been some concern about the rise in land prices.
You made it clear that in North Cal Vegas and Arizona you guys just approved deals that will deliver homes in 2013.
Have you baked the price increases into that land such that you're able to win those deals? Are you finding of a value-added way to find those deals where others can't such that you're able to not pay high prices and it still result in net margin improvement? Can you just talk about the margin profile of what you expect to deliver on those homes? I think the concern is that land prices have risen a bunch over this year and trying to deliver in '13 what you're paying for now might be too expensive.
Sure.
Look Josh one thing I failed to state in my prepared comments which is absolutely a given we are not compromising our underwriting standards on the investments that we make.
Every deal we do has to underwrite based on today's prices and today's sales rates in that general area.
I've always taken the view any prices you could achieve on the top line are offset by cost increases because normally prices go up in better times and contractors come along with you on price.
There's no question that the land markets especially in the more desirable locations are seeing inflation on the lot prices or land that you can acquire.
A lot of the things that get covered in the media are the "auctions" where somebody puts something out to bid and there's a frenzy that pushes the price up frankly in a lot of cases by people that aren't end users.
And we're not playing in that arena.
That's something we just -- we stay away from.
And I specifically identified the deal in Danville which we love and the deal in Austin which we absolutely love because both of those were mined and contracted because of our relationships in the marketplace.
So you don't have to go around the market and play retail if you have a great land team with great relationships on the ground.
In our newer markets like the D.C.
we don't have those relationships yet.
So we're more careful and thoughtful in that you have to play in a more competitive bid environment.
Those are the book ends.
We have a different situation in every market but our expectation is the new investments will be one of the drivers in our continued improvement in profitability.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate that.
If I can just make one last one in.
I think investors understand the operational leverage in your business model.
Revenues obviously can increase a heck of a lot more than your SG&amp;A.
But could you talk about the indirect gross leveraging your model? When we think about it there are things like superintendent salaries taxes landscaping things of this nature that ultimately gets some leverage off of them once sales begin to pick up for you guys or as prices go up in your business model.
Can you talk about how that works in your business model? What percentages of your gross -- or of your cost of goods sold may not see increases in lock-step with your revenues? Sure.
Well Josh as you know every builder reports their gross a little differently and we do capitalize some of the indirect construction into cost of goods.
So it's -- it is a leverage item.
Jeff can share some of the sensitivities with it.
Our goal is to hold the cost and grow revenue so there's obviously leverage but Jeff can share the impact at different levels.
Sure.
I'm looking at 2 different things Josh.
I mean on the SG&amp;A leverage side our full intent is to contain cost as much as possible as we see top line revenue growth and we've been very successful in that so for this year and intend to continue it.
And while we're allowing some isolated expansions and as Jeff mentioned one of the 4 points in our growth plan is to enhance some of the local management teams it's paying off in a big way with top line revenue that's more than offsetting.
So we're seeing nice leverage on that side.
As far as gross margin leverage is as I think as you are aware we do carry a small portion of fixed cost within our gross margin.
I believe it's about $12 million a quarter right now with increasing top line revenues.
We're getting nice leverage off that piece as well.
Specifically when you start talking about field resources it's a nice thing that's happening right now with the markets picking up and absorption rates being as strong as they are to be able to utilize some of those field resources in a more efficient manner.
So when times are really tough and deliveries were down we're having to share some of the construction supervisors for example across multiple communities leading to some inefficiencies.
There's traveling efficiencies et cetera on being able to concentrate those resources now more on a volume basis is helping us.
But at the same time we're also trying to hold those costs down so we think there's efficiencies in all of these aspects of the business.
We're being very very cautious about expanding resource.
At the same time we're being aggressive in expanding resources in the areas that we think will bring meaningful growth to the company.
And we'll take our next question from Nishu Sood with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about the ability to grow here.
You mentioned the strategic repositioning lowering your community count obviously you're going to be growing going forward from here.
If I -- if you just think from a balance sheet perspective your higher debt to capital would seem like it would be a break on your growth relative to some of your peers.
So I was just wondering given obviously the run in the builders' stocks would you consider an equity offering here to kind of reload your balance sheet and give you greater ammunition for growth? Nishu let me make a couple of comments and then I'll refer it over to Jeff.
If you look at what we just shared we have a lot of liquidity today to go grow our business.
And our strategy is to continue to rotate assets generate operating cash and then reinvest it in the business.
So we have a very nice rhythm going today.
Just looking at third quarter how much better our operating cash was than a year ago.
And people keep claiming that our balance sheet is getting in the way of growth.
But we have $470 million in cash on hand that we would love to invest and put to work as we diligently pursue more acquisitions.
In the past we were preserving more of the cash to ensure if there was a significant economic downturn we could still power through the downturn and we're not as worried with that because of the underpinnings that have built up in the housing market and the economy.
So our balance sheet to us is not in the way of growing our business and we think we can have significant percentage growth with our current position.
Jeff do you want to share anymore? Sure yes I'll pick up a couple of points here.
Regarding our capital structure I do think it's best to kind of discuss where we're at today and where we come from because we've come a long way in past year.
And if you flash back to last year's third quarter we are facing a pretty large settlement payment in Q4 on the South Edge issue $250 million to be exact.
We had 2014 and 2015 maturities in our bond portfolio of $1 billion.
And we've made tremendous progress over that time period.
First of all we settled those liabilities in the fourth quarter.
We now have a nice land asset and a very valuable land asset on our books relating to our Inspirada communities and we're selling quite nicely out of those and have a long-term growth plan there.
Secondly we've completed 2 very successful bond transactions and tender offers this year the most recent I talked about the prepared remarks happening in the third quarter.
And as a result we pushed out nearly 2/3 of our original near-term maturities.
We brought our 2014 tower down to about $76 million which I described as easily manageable in the prepared remarks and we really feel that way.
And I think very importantly we now have a ratio with unrestricted cash and near-term maturities of a little over 1.
We're in a vastly improved situation today.
I think the other comment I've made in echoing some of Jeff's I think the best source of funds for the company and I think it's always this way our internal operations.
We've been improving in almost all of our metrics over the past couple of quarters.
The first 9 months of this year as I mentioned we generated cash flow that was over $230 million better than the same period last year and we did that while spending almost $340 million on land acq and land development.
So we're really sitting in a pretty good position.
We're also sitting on a backlog level right now that's up 33% versus the prior year.
It's the highest it's been in quite a time -- quite some time.
And obviously we're now just starting into the fourth quarter.
And the fourth quarter if you recall is what our CEO calls our ATM quarter.
So we do believe we'll add to our cash during the quarter and enhance our position even more.
I think a couple of the other factors that sometimes investors miss we do have $1.8 billion of inventory on our books.
And we can and will use that inventory to support our growth objectives.
And like I said I think we're in a very good position.
So to sum it up we have solid growth targets.
We're working towards those growth targets as a company.
Obviously we've modeled the results if we're going on offense strategy and we're comfortable with our ability to support the resulting growth.
And when and if we reach a point in time when we actually have a need for additional liquidity we'll evaluate the situation and make the appropriate decisions at that point.
Research Division</strong> Great.
That's a very good answer.
Let me ask you a second question here.
On -- Jeff you're talking in your prepared remarks about pricing has gone up 20% over the past.
I think you said 6 quarters or so.
But the first-time buyer’s percentage has remained at about 2/3.
And then obviously in the context of your strategic repositioning you mentioned going after a different sort of first-time buyer.
I just wanted to understand that a little bit more clearly.
How much of that's different just because let's say going back to California a California first-time buyer is probably going to be twice at least what a Texas first-time buyer let's say? So how much of that is just market mix? And other part of it capturing a different type of the first-time buyer maybe you could just give us some more color on what exactly that means.
I'm sorry Nishu could you -- what was your -- the final part of that question? I got the first part.
What did you just close with? Research Division</strong> Oh just the -- to the extent that it's due to your strategic repositioning what exactly does it mean? Are you saying you're capturing a different sort of first-time buyer? Okay okay I got it I got it.
As everyone on the call knows the mortgage underwriting system is still very difficult.
And the biggest impact was to the true median income first-time buyer which for decades was our core business.
And I think that as the economy improves and people feel better about housing we're hopeful that mortgage underwriting improves with it.
And if it does you're going to unlock incredible demand at the median for the first-time buyer.
In the meantime we have shifted to the I call it the upper 1/3 or whatever you'd say of the first-time buyer where I'd say high blue collar low white collar working couple or single that makes way more money in living wants to live in a more desirable area.
So it's not unusual.
For instance in Orange County we opened a community in Irvine a couple of weeks ago where the first-time buyer sadly is paying $700 000 and we're selling very well.
At the same time the first-time buyer even in Houston we have found a niche where it's a higher income Houston first-time buyer.
In many cases people that just stayed on the sidelines as the frenzy played out and now were taking advantage of the incredible affordability that's out there and they know that it's now time to buy.
And I believe -- Jeff I don't know if you have the numbers I think our ratio of first time is fairly consistent across the regions.
It's not like Houston is all first time and California is not.
It's very similar across all of our regions.
So we're targeting higher price more desirable markets where we still are the affordable housing alternative within that market.
We'll go next to Michael Rehaut with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Will Wong on for Mike.
I was wondering if you could talk about the components of the gross margin improvement the 190-basis-point sequential improvement so basically excluding the one-time items.
What are sort of the main components of that improvement? And also going into the fourth quarter and 2013 also what do you think will be the main drivers of the gross margin improvement that you guys talked about? Sure Will.
First of all I guess let's talk about some of the headwinds we're facing.
We did mention we're seeing some labor and material cost increases and that's the first thing I'll talk about here.
We had about a 70-basis-point hit we think in the quarter.
This is sequentially due to direct construction costs and labor costs.
That was more than offset by pricing actions we took in a number of our communities.
And as we've been talking over the past couple of quarters we have been able to move price in a majority of our communities not significant huge price increases.
And our ASP as Jeff mentioned was more due to community repositioning than to pricing.
But we have been able to offset the cost so that's helped us.
The remaining pieces of the improvement on the quarter really coming from both cost leverage contained in the margin as well as favorable mix where we're seeing our better positioned communities being able to deliver higher margins for the company.
Continuing into Q4 we have guided -- we guided last quarter -- we're kind of reaffirming the guidance this quarter that we do believe we will hit a crossover point and actually have a year-on-year comp that's clean let's say that's favorable this year.
And coming from many of the same factors we do expect to see some continued headwind on the cost side.
We do expect to see some recovery on the price side and with increased volumes.
And certainly with the favorable community mix we expect to see some improvement in the overall margin picture.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And in terms of California I know you guys noted a big improvement in California.
What do you think was driving that? Is it just job growth or prices spurring people to buy quickly? Or just -- I know Jeff you mentioned a reduction in inventory.
But how sustainable do you think that is? Well I mean I wanted to share the reduction inventory because those were incredible numbers just incredible that a market could drop 60% in 12 months.
The people -- a lot of people don't understand California.
For starters it's a huge demographic and everybody wants to live near the coast.
And the closer to the coast the stronger the demand.
Even in the peak years the housing industry does not meet demand within California.
As many homes as we started most of the markets are land constrained or process constrained and it takes time to bring lots to market.
So we never caught up with the demand and the demographic of the state and you have these huge populations north and south that are now reacting to the incredible affordability.
And it's a pretty typical recovery cycle that has started in that first the coast ramps up and it has and then the prices slowly will ripple out and people will continue to compromise a little bit of location in order to be a homeowner.
And the demand for homeownership is still very strong.
And while I shared that the Inland Empire in particular has improved significantly it's the western end of the Inland Empire the side that's closest to the coast while there's pockets of the eastern part of the Inland Empire that haven't improved at all.
But again it's a typical recovery.
And with the size of the population here the lack of inventory and the interest due to affordability I think this can sustain for some time.
In fact I'm now starting to believe that we're once again facing an economic cycle where housing activity will be a growth driver and a job creator going forward.
So this actually could feed on itself a little bit.
We'll go next to Bob Wetenhall with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to get a real kind of on-the-record comment from Jeff Mezger.
Are you intentionally sacrificing new order growth at this point in the cycle to achieve better ASP performance and drive gross margin? Good question Bob.
First off we're not sacrificing anything so I don't like the word sacrifice.
In my prepared comments I used the term optimizing each community.
So we evaluate what is the best sales pace at the best price and at the best margin that will generate the highest returns for that asset.
So we don't target a top line goal and then get to it.
We start ground up and manage to each asset.
And I've had a lot of people ask me that because they think we're pushing price to slow down sales.
We're not.
We're changing our product.
And as I shared our sales per community were the highest in the quarter that we've had in many years.
So it's hard for people to justify that we're sacrificing pace right now.
We're picking up price and pace.
LLC Research Division</strong> So with this approach of optimizing lot sales how do you feel this will impact land spend requirements going forward? And I think this is for -- more for Jeff Kaminski.
What do you feel the impact to this will be in the future from a return on invested capital and balance sheet liquidity? Right yes thanks Bob.
The frequency and the pace of sales obviously helps returns tremendously.
And we're seeing it in our markets right now.
We're -- as Jeff mentioned we have one of the highest absorption rates in the industry and it does gives us the ability to generate a lot of cash out of our operations through that land churn.
And particularly in the higher priced markets you generate very significant cash flow on the deliveries coming out of those markets and you're able to reinvest at that point.
We watch investment returns very carefully.
It's a very key component of our land investment strategy.
And we meter our return requirements against our margin requirements and look at both sides of that and balance them as we make those decisions.
So it's very key component of our company strategy and our land investment strategy and that's really how we look at it.
I think from the point of view higher absorption has obviously typically lead to better IRRs and returns assuming you're getting the margin and we are working very hard on margin improvement as a company.
We've seen a couple of quarters now consecutively and sequentially of growth and intend to continue that trend.
So we're focusing on both pieces of it.
Like Jeff said we don't think we're sacrificing anything on the way of absorptions due to some of activity and some of the community shifting that we're doing and we're very pleased with the result at this point.
LLC Research Division</strong> So just to wrap that.
You're comfortable then with the shifting to offense funding that move with cash on the balance sheet cash from internal operations to move forward and support the growth you need? Bob I'll answer for Jeff.
The answer is absolutely.
But let me give you a little more color.
If you think through the market conditions I've described and our sales pace per community one of the things that's different for us right now is sales rates are predictable and we haven't been able to say that for quite some time.
You may have to do something with your positioning on price or whatever to achieve your sales rate but you can achieve the sales rate.
In past years you could flog a community as hard as you want doing all kinds of things and sales may not have materialized anyway.
So now that we have a predictable sales pace we also have a predictable rhythm of deliveries and cash needs.
So we know what our land spend will be and we can align it with our revenue generation going forward and keep things in balance and grow the business.
That's what I referred to before as a very nice rhythm in our business right now.
And we'll take our next question from Ivy Zelman with Zelman &amp; Associates.
Research Division</strong> I think you've answered a lot of questions and just going to be quick.
In terms of your land that you're purchasing today what percent of it would be likely to deliver in '13? And what's going to be delivered in '14 '15 if you just sort of break it out understanding the pipeline? Yes Ivy it's difficult to answer that because every community and every state has a different story.
In some cases we shared in our last call we acquired some lots in Irvine in June in 2 communities where we've already grand opened.
And they'll have deliveries in November December and all of next year and into '14.
And depending on the size of those communities you'll hit your run rate and they build through.
In some cases like that where you can move very quickly you pop your business big time in '13.
If it's a development deal like the Austin Mason Ranch it's a development deal we won't have deliveries there until '14.
And what we're putting together is a nice portfolio of new acquisitions and activations where we can build a plan and expect to grow sequentially.
Research Division</strong> Let me -- just let me ask in a different way let me ask it in a different way then.
Of your plan for '13 how much of your plan has already been purchased? And how much of your business plan in '14 has already been purchased? Yes almost all of '13 Ivy.
What we're doing now is opportunistically playing in things that come to us that would help us plus '13.
We own and control everything we need for '13 right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And so just to -- sort of a legacy question.
As we recognize you're incrementally adding and going to be able to fulfill your business plan for '13 and beyond much like to what extent you can comment on what you have of your business plan for '14 what would you say if you were looking at legacy would still represent the land that you own and control? And how much of that would be peripheral stuff that you had to go and expand here because of the affordability factor when you're underwriting at the peak? Most of those things Ivy are long gone that were out in the what I call the exurbs.
And as these markets continue to correct and I shared inventory drop in Riverside I didn't share the prices were also up 15% in the year.
And when prices are moving like that a community that had a less-than-normalized margin you change your thinking all of a sudden and that's a pretty nice margin.
So as these markets cure it's causing us to continue to scrub these assets and we think they're a real opportunity to grow the top line grow the bottom line and generate cash and be a nice complement to the new acquisitions we're doing at the same time.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And your '14 business plans how much have you got of that satisfied? Over half.
Yes over half.
We'll take our next question from Megan McGrath with MKM Partners.
Research Division</strong> I guess I just wanted to follow up specifically on your Southeast and Southwest divisions which were the underperforming ones this quarter.
You talked about 2 things one repositioning but also about selling out of communities faster than expected.
So I guess I'm still a little bit confused about actually what's happening in those divisions.
Is it that you have the land and the communities but you are literally repositioning them and the product and that's slowing you down? Or is it that you haven't actually opened new communities and you're having to speed up that process? Yes.
Megan let me tweak one of your comments.
It's not that our communities in those regions are underperforming.
We have fewer communities.
And if you look back over the last couple of years we were sharing on these calls that the vast majority of our investment was in Texas and California and that's been going on for 8 quarters.
And if you look within our regions in both Texas and California you have very nice growth trajectories occurring both in units in revenue and at the bottom line.
So our strategy is playing out.
In the meantime we made the decision not to invest in some markets until they stabilized.
And we don't want to take an investment risk until prices were settled and we knew that things weren't going to erode further.
And Arizona was a great example of that in that this time last year we had 12 communities.
Today we have 2.
The 2 we have are selling very well.
We're actively out investing in Arizona again.
And we'll grow our business from here.
But we just couldn't get comfortable buying lots in Arizona a year ago.
And if anything I might have missed the early recovery because things have improved frankly faster than we expected they would.
But this recovery isn't over.
It's just beginning and there's plenty of opportunity for us.
If you go over to the Southeast region we announced that we pulled out of Charleston.
We significantly reduced in Charlotte while it settled out and focus primarily on Raleigh where our investment strategy was in highly preferred land-constrained markets and it takes time to mine in that area.
And therefore you have a little dip in activity and in both cases we expect sequential growth going forward.
So it was really a strategic investment move we made while we're restoring profitability.
And now that we have this path we're back investing in all 4 regions.
And we will go next to Dan Oppenheim with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Mike on for Dan.
Jeff I was hoping you could drill down into your comments on Mason Ranch earlier.
Clearly a non-auction-type deal is better but I would still think that with such a large piece of land and an attractive submarket there's some level of competition.
So could you describe what the competition was like there? What really differentiated KB? And maybe expand on when you talked about a self-mined deal.
What type of work really goes into that? Okay.
Well 2 different questions there Mike and I'll go to the self-mined deal.
As an example the Danville community that we just announced we closed on.
Danville's a great submarket.
There's no new home competition to speak of at all in the East Bay in Danville.
It took us years frankly to bring this one to market.
A relationship that allowed us to tie it up and then leverage a land team that's been together for 2 decades in the Bay Area and can navigate through an entitlement process that's pretty intimidating.
And that's a real strength of this company.
So we leverage the relationship tie up the land work through a city that we have experience with and can now bring something to market that most builders in California couldn't even dream of doing.
In the case of Mason Ranch that one did get shopped to the market to a degree and we happen to have a very good personal relationship with the owner and sellers.
And one of the things that held a lot of people back in Austin was the size.
And a beauty to me in Texas as opposed to California you can control a lot of lots for a much smaller check than you do out here on the West Coast.
So while it's a lot of lots and big acreage the land basis is not that much and we love the fact of having 1 000 lots in a master plan in literally the most active submarket in Austin.
So my challenge to the team there is how do we get it open faster because this thing is going to be a real nice boost to the company.
In the Austin example while we know the seller we also again have a very skilled and seasoned land team that was able to navigate and understand some of the offsite requirements and entitlement issues in Leander where we've built before and have a great reputation.
So it's a combination of seasoning skill expertise and then in turn the relationship.
Contrast that to some of the markets we entered more recently we don't have that advantage and it's a different dynamic.
But the 2 examples I gave you in 2 different states and 2 totally different environments are very nice outcomes for this company.
And that does conclude the question-and-answer portion of today's call.
I'd like to turn the call back over to Jeff Mezger for any additional or closing remarks.
All right.
Thank you and thanks once again everyone for joining us today.
And have a great weekend.
We look forward to talking to you soon.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
We enjoy -- we appreciate your participation.
Good morning.
My name is Sarah and I will be your conference operator today.
I would like to welcome everyone to the KB Home 2012 Fourth Quarter and Year End Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded and a live webcast is available on KB Home's website at www.kbhome.com.
The company will make a brief presentation and then open the lines for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Before we begin I would like to remind everyone that KB Home's discussion today may include certain predictions and other forward-looking statements that reflect management's current expectations or forecasts of market and economic conditions of the company's business activities prospects strategy and financial and operational results.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance and due to a number of risks uncertainties and other factors outside of its control KB Home's actual results could be materially different from those expressed and/or implied by the forward-looking statements.
Many of these risk factors are identified in KB Home's filings with the SEC which the company urges you to read with care.
The discussions today may also include references to non-GAAP financial measures as defined in Regulation G.
The reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures are the most -- to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and other Regulation G required information is provided in the company's earnings release issued earlier today which is posted on the Investor Relations page of the company's website under New Releases on the left-hand side of the page.
I will now turn the conference over to the company's President and Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Jeff Mezger.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you Sarah and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today for a review of our fourth quarter and full year financial results.
With me this morning are Jeff Kaminski our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Bill Hollinger our Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer.
During today's call I will begin with a review of financial and operational highlights of our fourth quarter then provide a brief overview of current housing market conditions followed by an update on the significant progress we have made and position our company for profitability and long-term strategic growth.
Then Jeff Kaminski will take you through our detailed financial results after which I will make a few final remarks before we open up the call for your questions.
Let me begin by saying that we are pleased with the results we've achieved in repositioning our company.
Our efforts culminated in the fourth quarter where we once again generated improvement in most of our key financial metrics.
We grew revenues by 20% increased gross margins and significantly reduced our SG&amp;A ratio the combination of which drove improved operating income and internal profit that resulted in reported earnings per share for the quarter of $0.10.
These solid improvements are the direct result of the decisive actions we have taken over the course of the past few years where we have leveraged various components of our business model driving strategy and gaining efficiency with the goal of restoring profitability.
Earlier this year during our first quarter earnings call we walked through the 2012 roadmap to profitability and the respective performance targets we were pursuing.
When it became clear that we were on track to achieve our targets we expanded our objectives to the dual focus of not only enhancing profits but also aggressively growing our top line.
This growth strategy was outlined on our second quarter earnings call where I declared that we are Going on Offense.
We are doing very well in driving our growth initiatives and I will provide an update on our progress in this regard in a few moments.
We're enthusiastic about the momentum we have created in both profitability and growth as we enter our new fiscal year.
Our quarter end backlog value increased by 35% year-over-year with $619 million in future revenues the highest year-end level since 2007.
This has us well positioned to continue to generate revenue growth in each quarter of 2013.
While we are pleased with our position entering the new year we recognized that we have to continue to enhance our results in order to achieve normalized profit margins.
In particular one of our highest priorities is to continue to elevate our gross margin which fell below our expectation in the fourth quarter.
We have undertaken a number of steps to address this shortfall and are already seeing favorable impact of these actions.
We expect to continue to expand our gross margins further going forward.
That being said as we sit here today we are positioned to be profitable for the full year in 2013.
The national economy continues its gradual improvement with moderate job growth and slowly increasing consumer confidence.
The housing markets are also strengthening and new demand is now being created due to increased urgency to take advantage of incredible affordability as prices are now on the rise.
At the same time with rental rates having risen materially to their current levels the out-of-pocket expense for homeownership is actually lower than rent in most markets.
Further household formation is once again growing as millennials are now starting to leave their parents' homes and move out on their own as the economy improves.
While there's been a few years in the making housing is becoming a bright spot for the economy and the industry is once again positioned to play its historical role of being a job creator and leading the national economy into a full recovery.
All of our served markets are experiencing positive recovery trends to varying degrees.
As I mentioned on our last call the strength of the coastal California markets at that time was starting to expand inland.
This dynamic has actually gained momentum this quarter with resale inventory levels in many of the most desirable inland submarkets now measured in weeks of supply not months.
You may have seen the release that was issued yesterday by the California Association of Realtors reporting on November sales and pricing.
The report states that "Year-to-year statewide median prices were up 24.8% in November marking the ninth consecutive month of annual price increases and the fifth consecutive month of double-digit annual gains." This increase occurred on volume of over 518 000 sales.
Within the counties where we operate the year-to-year increase in Southern California range from a low of 12.4% to a high of 19.8% and in Northern California the increase was more dramatic ranging from a low of 18% to a high of 21.3%.
We're really encouraged by the strength of these ongoing trends in a state where we have our largest business.
While the housing markets are definitely improving over the prior year I do want to point out that 2011 was the worst year on record for new home sales so the improvement we are experiencing is still well below normal activity levels.
We are in the early innings of this recovery and with a more limited competitive playing field we believe we have significant upside as the recovery continues to advance beyond today's volumes.
Now let's take a closer look at our sales results for the quarter.
Our net order value grew year-over-year by 25% in the fourth quarter.
This growth was accomplished against a very high bar set in the previous year when we grew our year-over-year order value by 65%.
In essence we have more than doubled our order value this quarter versus the fourth quarter of 2010.
Our unit orders were up 4% also against a very tough comp in 2011 that was up 38% over the prior year.
As we guided last quarter we expected that a positive sales comp would be difficult to achieve in the fourth quarter due to a temporary reduction in open communities as we sold through more communities many of them underperformers than we were now opening.
We are pleased with the fact that we actually generated the positive unit and significant revenue comp in light of the fact that our year-end community count was down by 18% or 43 communities.
We grew our sales per community by 23% in the quarter versus last year.
Traffic levels remain strong buyers are demonstrating urgency and new homes have become the product of choice for homebuyers.
Growing our community count to further drive revenue growth remains one of our top priorities.
And with our Going on Offense initiatives gaining traction we expect to grow our community count sequentially each quarter in 2013.
Our average sales price continues to decline to nearly $271 000 for our fourth quarter deliveries.
This average sales price is 14% above the fourth quarter of 2011 and results in our average sales price for the year settling at $247 000.
This increase is primarily attributable to our strategy of investing in highly desirable land-constrained submarkets and offering larger square footage homes.
These locations are attracting higher-income consumers who are selecting these larger homes and in turn investing in more structural options.
Let me reiterate a critical point that is absolutely linked to this geographic and product evolution.
We remain committed to our core first-time buyer niche.
In the locations where we are now opening communities it is a different type of first-time buyer with a higher household income and a far better ability to obtain a mortgage in today's underwriting environment.
For the fourth quarter 61% of our deliveries were to first-time buyers even with the significant increase in our average sales price.
This strategy is working effectively in all of our operating regions and in particular is having a desired impact in California.
For the year our average selling price in California was up 16% or $53 000.
As I discussed during my opening comments fiscal 2012 proved to be a significant transition year for KB Home as we achieved the crossover from a total focus on restoring profitability to a dual focus on enhancing profitability and pursuing growth.
With profitability in sight we made a deliberate decision to implement our Going on Offense initiative.
Let me recap the 4 key elements of this plan: First we introduced an aggressive land acquisition strategy; second we activated communities which had previously been held for future development; third we implemented an intensive weekly review of sales results per community with senior management participation that had a focus on actions to optimize each community sales pace price and margin; fourth we bolstered our division management teams to provide additional resources in large geographies identified for accelerated growth.
We are very pleased with the tangible results produced by our growth initiatives and the momentum we have created in this area will be sustained.
I'd like to share a few highlights.
During the second half of the year we successfully increased our investment in land and land development to $369 million which is more than double what we spent in the second half of 2011.
We have the lots in place to achieve our deliveries revenue and profit goals for 2013 and while we are now concentrating on 2014 and beyond we continue to seek out opportunities to purchase finished lots which can be opened for sale quickly and possibly converted into additional revenue in late 2013.
One of the strengths of our KBnxt business model is our ability to utilize our existing product lines and promptly move from land acquisition to open models and in turn deliveries in a period of 6 months or less.
We intend to continue our aggressive land investment strategy going forward.
In fact in early December we closed on 2 very exciting coastal California communities.
The first was in San Marcos a highly desirable suburb of San Diego where we acquired finished lots expect to start models next week and plan to grand open from finished models in February and in turn deliver homes in the second half of 2013.
This is a great example of our ability to move from acquiring finished lots to generating revenues in a relatively short period of time.
The second acquisition announced earlier this month in the media was for land to be developed in the 2 product lines at Playa Vista on the west side of Los Angeles.
This highly acclaimed urban master-planned community is arguably located in one of the most vibrant and land-constrained areas in the country.
This purchase illustrates one of the real strengths of our company; the ability to acquire property in land-constrained environments by leveraging our excellent long-standing relationships and market expertise at a local level.
As a result of these 4 growth initiatives we are positioned to not only be profitable in 2013 but also to drive significant growth in 2013 and beyond.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jeff Kaminski who will offer the details on our financials for the quarter and year.
Jeff? Thank you Jeff and good morning.
Our fourth quarter results reflect the continuation of the progress that we have made in improving our operations on our path to sustained profitable growth.
We believe this progress including sequential and year-over-year improvement in our operating results in each quarter of 2012 along with the net income generated in the second half of the year sets us up well for our 2013 goal of full year profitability.
I am now pleased to provide you with some more detail on our fourth quarter as well as the full year financial results.
For the fourth quarter of 2012 we achieved a net income of $7.7 million or $0.10 per diluted share as compared to net income of $13.9 million or $0.18 per share for the same period of the prior year.
The fourth quarter of 2011 included a financial services gain of $19.8 million and a gain on loan guarantee of $6.6 million.
Excluding these items the current year Q4 net income improved by over $20 million or $0.26 per share as compared to the same quarter in 2011.
Total revenues for the fourth quarter were $578 million a 20% increase over the $480 million we reported in the same period of the prior year.
Our revenue growth resulted from both the increases in home delivered -- homes delivered as well as higher average selling prices.
Housing revenues as compared to the fourth quarter in 2011 increased in 3 of our 4 geographic regions.
The majority of the total company increase was attributable to the strong performance of our West Coast region which was up $75 million or 32%.
On a sequential basis our revenues increased in all 4 regions and in total we were up by 36% in the current quarter as compared to Q3 slightly exceeding the guidance communicated during our second quarter call.
As Jeff already discussed the overall average-selling price of our homes delivered during the fourth quarter increased significantly to nearly $271 000.
The year-over-year increase of approximately $32 000 or 14% was driven by our land strategy of investing in desirable submarkets where higher-income first-time homebuyers are selecting larger homes with more studio options.
We were also helped by improvements in overall market conditions across all 4 of our geographic regions.
This marks the 10th consecutive quarter of year-over-year increases in our overall average selling price.
On a sequential basis average selling price increased by nearly $26 000 or 10% versus the third quarter of 2012.
For the full year the average selling price of homes delivered was about $247 000 a favorable result relative to the guidance provided since the first quarter of the year.
During our 2013 fiscal year we anticipate that we will continue our streak of year-over-year increases in our quarterly average selling price although the first quarter will likely reflect a modest sequential decline versus Q4 of 2012 due to geographic mix.
Our housing gross profit margin for the fourth quarter was 14.2% compared to the 14.7% reported for the same quarter of 2011.
The quarter includes $5.6 million of inventory impairment and land option contract abandonment charges and a $2.6 million charge for water intrusion repairs at certain of our communities in Florida.
Our fourth quarter 2011 housing gross profit included $2.3 million of inventory-related charges.
Excluding impairment and land option contract abandonment charges the fourth quarter housing gross profit margin was 15.2% compared to 15.1% in the fourth quarter of 2011.
As a reminder in analyzing sequential improvement our third quarter gross profit margin included $16.5 million of favorable insurance reimbursement as well as $6.4 million of inventory impairments.
A relatively flat year-over-year gross margin performance excluding inventory-related charges was unanticipated as we expected sequential and year-over-year improvements.
The current period water intrusion repair charge was clearly not expected and we experienced slightly higher increases in labor and material costs than what we've projected.
While we were able to offset these labor and material increases through pricing in combination with the repair charge they prevented us from fully realizing the net improvements in gross profit margin anticipated from the impacts of community and geographic mix volume leverage and pricing.
One of the highlights of the quarter was the progress in our SG&amp;A ratio which strongly contributed to our operating margin improvement for both the fourth quarter and the full year.
We continued our diligence and focus on cost containment during the fourth quarter while at the same time implementing division resource enhancements as part of our Going on Offense strategy.
Our selling general and administrative expenses were approximately $66 million in the fourth quarter of 2012 compared to roughly $75 million in the same quarter of 2011.
This $9 million expense reduction was achieved in spite of an additional $99 million increase in housing revenues.
In percentage terms we are able to reduce our Q4 SG&amp;A expenses by 12% as compared to a 21% rise in housing revenues.
Sequentially versus Q3 2012 we contained the expense increase to only 5% as compared to a 36% revenue increase.
Clearly we have been able to leverage our operating structure and are seeing the benefits of the expense reduction actions taken over the past several years as we contain costs while increasing revenues.
As we guided on our last call we expect that a year-over-year improvement in our fourth quarter SG&amp;A expense as a percentage of housing revenues as well as a sequential reduction.
In fact the Q4 2012 ratio was 11.5% the lowest fourth quarter level since 2007.
Our operating income for the quarter increased to $15.6 million compared to $835 000 in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Operating income as a percentage of homebuilding revenues for the fourth quarter improved 250 basis points to 2.7% compared to 0.2% for Q4 of 2011.
We have reported year-over-year and sequential improvements in our operating results for each quarter of 2012 and expect to continue this trend during 2013.
We ended the year with 191 communities opened for sale.
As Jeff has already discussed this represents an 18% decline from the 234 communities at the end of fiscal 2011.
As you may be aware we currently consider a community that has one or more lots left to sell at the end of the quarter as an open community.
We are currently reviewing this definition and are considering revising the threshold to 5 lots left to sell to improve consistency with the rest of the peer group when comparing absorption rates.
During the fourth quarter we opened 18 new communities and had 30 closeouts and we are planning to open more than 120 communities in 2013.
We continue to anticipate that our community count will increase sequentially for each quarter during 2013 more heavily weighted towards the second half of the year as our land acquisitions and development activities convert into open communities.
Depending on absorption rates and the resulting pace of closeouts we believe we can increase our community count by a minimum of 15% to 20% by the fourth quarter of next year.
We invested approximately $182 million in land acquisitions and development during the fourth quarter.
Our total investment for the fiscal year including land acquisitions partially funded by seller financing was approximately $565 million.
This exceeds the guidance communicated during our second and third quarter calls of $550 million as we were able to act quickly and opportunistically to secure additional land during the quarter.
We generated positive operating cash flow of over $110 million during the fourth quarter net of the $182 million of land acquisition and development spending just discussed.
This compares to a cash usage of almost $38 million in the prior-year quarter with land-related spending of $63 million.
For the 2012 fiscal year our operating cash flow improved by $382 million compared to the prior year.
Our strong fourth quarter and full year cash flow performance enabled us to increase our total cash to $567 million at year end.
Our preferred mortgage relationship with Nationstar continues to have positive effects on our business with reduced cancellations better predictability of deliveries and a more favorable experience for our customers.
As we discussed on previous calls we have seen sequential increases in their sales capture rates throughout the startup period and they are on track to hit the 70% goal.
We expect to realize more of these benefits from the increase in the percentage of closings handled by Nationstar as we deliver year-end units and backlog during fiscal 2013.
While we are committed to further improvements in our financial performance and remain focused on a number of key profitability and growth-related initiatives we are pleased with the progress we made during the 2012 fiscal year.
Our strategy has resulted in improvements in most of our financial metrics across our operating footprint.
For the full year we reported a net loss of $59 million or $0.76 per diluted share a significant improvement of nearly $120 million over our 2011 fiscal year net loss of approximately $179 million or $2.32 per share.
Revenues for the year were up 19% to $1.56 billion as compared to $1.32 billion for 2011.
In 2012 we improved our operating margin by 660 basis points compared to the prior year and on an adjusted basis we achieved the lower end of our 400 to 500 basis point improvement goal.
Finally we reported positive net profit in each of the last 2 quarters and significantly enhanced our debt maturity profile with 2 successful capital market transactions refinancing nearly $600 million of senior notes.
We look forward to driving continued improvements of our financial performance during the coming year as we focus on achieving profitable growth.
Now I will turn the call back over to Jeff for some final remarks.
Thanks Jeff.
Before I make my concluding comments I would like to acknowledge and thank the team of enthusiastic and talented employees of KB Home who are the driving force behind our ability to deliver on our commitments and continue to propel our business forward.
As Jeff and I have shared today KB Home accomplished many objectives in 2012 that advanced our business and we are now positioned for full year profitably in 2013 and beyond.
At the same time we remain relentless in our focus on further enhancing our financial results.
We now have a fully articulated growth strategy in place and expect to grow our communities each quarter in 2013.
The combination of adding more communities coupled with one of the highest sales rates per community in the industry and an increasing average sales price as a result of our investment strategy provides an opportunity to generate meaningful revenue growth as we move forward.
KB Home continues to provide a compelling value proposition for our customers.
Our Built to Order process allows our buyers to select the home they want to be built on the lot they desire and only include the structural and decor options that meet their lifestyle and their needs.
This is a critical and positive differentiator for our company.
Another key differentiator is the significant benefit our consumers can realize in reducing the total cost of homeownership as they take advantage of lower utility bills as a result of our industry-leading energy-efficiency innovations.
Our ability to produce predictable deliveries and also to realize the cost savings of even-flow production in our Built to Order model is predicated on having a reliable mortgage support.
With the Nationstar alliance we once again have a solid partner whose goals in servicing the customer are aligned with ours.
As Nationstar serves more and more of our customers we expect that going forward we will be able to sell more homes reduce cancellations have more predictable start and delivery dates and improve customer satisfaction levels.
All of these benefits should result in improvements to our bottom line.
Furthermore while many companies will participate in the overall recovery in housing we feel KB Home's market positioning and industry expertise is a distinct competitive advantage.
We like our geographic footprint as all of our markets are strengthening today.
And they are all also projected to experience favorable long-term job growth economic expansion and population growth.
In particular we like our position in California which accounted for nearly half of our 2012 revenues and where we are the largest homebuilder today.
California's large population base with diverse economies and a desirable climate and lifestyle is once again experiencing significant demand and limited supply and we intend to capitalize on the opportunity.
We are entering the new fiscal year with momentum and strength.
As the housing markets continue to recover we are positioned in the right markets and focused on the deepest buyer segments where demand is highest.
We expect to continue our progress on improving our financial and operational results.
With profitability in place and our growth strategies gaining momentum we look forward to sharing continued positive results as 2013 unfolds.
Now we'll be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question I had was on the gross margins.
You mentioned that they fell a little bit below your expectations but at the same time I believe the water intrusion charges were about 60 bps of a hit.
So excluding that with 15.7% margin that does seem like some improvement.
So I'm wondering number one if that margin was closer to your expectations the 15.7% what were the key drivers of that improvement? And as you look into 2013 what would be the drivers of additional improvement? In particular I'm thinking of the new communities coming online and if the underwriting of those communities have more favorable margins? Mike as always you ask more than one question there.
But the gross margin result there's always a combination of many small items that will impact and influence that number.
And we did have a higher expectation than the one you just shared in our own plans.
And my expectation is that we're not happy until we get back to full gross margins.
So we have many many different actions in play right now to continue to elevate this.
And as we shared in our prepared comments we expect to grow our gross margin going forward.
So we're nowhere near done with where we want to get to.
Jeff can share some of the specifics with you.
Yes Mike.
As Jeff said we were slightly disappointed with the results in the gross margin percentage but we were happy that we had some upside in our SG&amp;A expense to keep our operating margin closer to target for the quarter.
Talking about gross margin for a second 2 main issues in the quarter that each one of them impacted the overall by 50 to 60 basis points.
First as you mentioned the charge for water intrusion in Florida was $2.6 million.
In some respects I mean you can look at that as a bit of an offset to the upside that we had earlier in the year.
We made some warranty accrual adjustments early in the year.
This was not a warranty but it was somewhat related to that.
We don't like it but we did have some issues that came to light in the quarter.
We think we took very quick and decisive actions to address those issues and fix problems for our homeowners so that was one thing that we hope is behind us now.
Secondly we did see some cost increases for labor and materials that impacted us by about 50 basis points more than what we had anticipated.
We are still seeing some price pressures on labor and some of the materials in various markets around the country.
On the other side of that we have put actions in place and currently have a company-wide initiative underway to contain and potentially reduce construction costs as we move forward.
We're launching projects to offset the risk of additional negatives as we start building homes in 2013 and we're very aggressively moving to successfully implement these actions and secure a plan for expanding gross margin in the coming fiscal year.
I think it's also important to point out that despite the negative impact on the margin improvement for the quarter we were still able to offset the overall labor and material increases that we experienced with pricing.
We had a cost impact of about $5 000 per delivery and we believe we are north of that with our price increases.
And speaking of pricing just to talk about it just for a second we did see a nice trend this year.
We reported early in the year that we successfully implemented price increases across our divisions in various communities during the first and second quarters in about 2/3 of our communities.
And during the third quarter this number increased about 75% of our communities.
And we were up to almost 85% of our communities in Q4.
And like I said the increases more than offset the actuals.
I'm now talking about drivers for the future.
You kind of asked about '13 a little bit.
We do believe the continued pricing actions that we took throughout the year will be realized as we get into 2014 as we have -- or 2013 excuse me as we have a lot of those booked in our backlog for orders placed in Q3 and Q4 the construction cost containment or reduction opportunities I talked about.
We are underwriting new land deals in better submarkets targeted to higher first time -- higher income first-time buyers.
We hope that higher square footage strength continues as well as the studio option trends that we're seeing.
We hope to get volume leverage.
I think we'll certainly get volume leverage as the revenues continue to increase.
We do believe Nationstar and our mortgage partner situation which is now in firm footing will provide more consistency with our closings and we'll see fewer cancellations after start with that arrangement.
And we also and I think very importantly a strong leading indicator of future improvement we are seeing steady increases in both dollar and percentage margins for units in backlog.
So to sum it up we do a very spot focus on it on margin improvement as a company.
I believe directionally we'll have improving margins on a year-over-year basis in '13.
We do typically experience and I'm sure you're aware we do typically experience and anticipate a sequential dip in Q1 gross margin versus Q4 due mainly to the lower deliveries and the resulting loss of leverage on certain fixed costs so we do include our margin.
So however we do believe on a full-year basis we'll have a favorable year-over-year comp for the quarter as well as for the full year adjusting out any unusual items out of both periods.
Research Division</strong> Great.
That was a really comprehensive answer.
I appreciate it given I had a lot of parts to that question.
One topic but I guess several parts of that question.
Secondly just on the ASPs great improvement on that throughout the year.
Any thoughts in terms of rough idea at least for a range perhaps of what you would expect the average closing ASP to be for fiscal '13? Michael we're not going to give guidance today on '13.
We did share that we expect our average sales price to continue to go up.
And as Jeff referenced with the sales price increases that we were able to recognize last year covered some cost increases I'd much rather raise margin through lowering cost and not rely on a sales price increase.
Having said that we continue to push price wherever we can.
One of the action plans that we deployed in our growth strategy was these weekly calls.
And we will review our sales pace and ensure that we have an optimal pace.
If we're selling too fast we slow it down by pushing price because gross margin’s our top priority.
And if something is not selling at the pace we need we'll take steps to go improve the sales.
I think that's one of the key drivers also in our prices moving up.
So all in next year we expect our ASP to continue to increase but we're not going to give guidance to a degree right now.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Oppenheim from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering as it relates in terms of thinking about selling prices margins as well.
Given the -- you talked about community count growth for 2013 and the substantial land investment taking place how do you think about the number of communities that will be coming online in the West [indiscernible] regions in '13? What do you expect the mix to be over the course of the year? But more importantly what's your desired mix in terms of what a target would be if you could target something there? Dan I'm not sure I understood the question.
A target for what percentage? Research Division</strong> Thinking about the communities that are coming online how many -- how -- what's the percentage overall over the course of the year will end up being in the West in terms of communities? And you talked about the significant land investment in the West California and then also some in Texas.
What would be desired in terms of the mix of communities in which we think about in terms of 2013? Well one of the things that we've also evolved in Dan if you recall 2 years ago we were investing primarily and heavily in California first and then also in Texas our 2 largest markets.
As we went on offense early this year we opened up our investment strategy to desirable submarkets in every city.
When you talk about dollars invested it's a different topic than lot count or community count because the dollars in California are much larger per lot and they’re also typically if it's in an A location it's not going to be anywhere near the lot counts you can acquire in a Houston community for a lot less dollars.
So we have a strategy in every city for growth targets and community count ramp-up.
And in no city are we viewing it as hey we've got too much today.
So our position right now is there's opportunity in every market we'll continue to push them all.
Even in '12 the investment was heavily weighted to California and Texas but more evenly distributed than prior years.
And so we'll keep pushing it.
I don't know that we've said we want this percent in this city and this percent over there.
It's more or less grow everywhere right now.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then just thinking about you talked about the city options and such.
How much is coming through in terms of the C options? How do you think about that in terms of just the margins on that and the trends that you've been seeing there as of late? I can let Jeff give you whatever numbers he has here today.
Our first -- the first item for the studio was to help us sell houses.
We do not start with the studio as a big profit center.
We do make money in the studios.
But first and foremost it helps us sell houses.
And in the cities where we have a fully loaded studio many of the customers visit the studio before they buy the home so it's part of the selling process.
As we've gone to larger homes higher price points the percent of revenue that they're spending is holding.
So all in they're spending more dollars.
I don't know if you have a breakout with you Jeff.
Yes it's about 10%.
Yes.
About 10%.
So it's in our historical range Dan but as your ASP goes up and -- so it's same size homes so it's a higher ASP.
They're spending a little bit more.
Just to add to that just for a second Dan.
As Jeff mentioned it's primarily a sales tool for us and a differentiator.
However on the margin side our average margins in this geo do tend higher than our housing margins.
So it provides a small increase I guess on an overall basis which obviously we like.
But more importantly it provides choice to the customers in a sales differentiation point for us.
I've shared on previous calls our pricing strategy in the studio is after overhead still accretive to the base margin on the home.
So it covers its own overhead and then is accretive.
Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Kim from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> First question relates to -- well actually before I get to my question I just wanted to see if you could provide from a housekeeping perspective the homes under construction numbers basically the inventory breakout if you've got that.
First question I had for you Jeff was Jeff Mezger was a comment about the buyer that you're seeing today being a different kind of first-time buyer.
This is something that I think folks that look at you -- at the industry kind of wonder if we look out over the next couple of years and the mortgage market does open up to something a little more normal does this mean that the average price that we should be modeling in will come down by virtue of reversing that unusual mix shift? And the reason why I'm asking you the question is because I believe that you obviously are positioning your company in terms of the communities that you're planning to open over the next couple of years with a certain price point in mind and a certain type of product.
So the question that I'm asking specifically is do you believe that as the mortgage market opens up that the more typical first-time buyer will be additive to your sales volume and that you will still continue to have the sort of higher-quality first-time buyer in addition? Or do you believe that we are probably working through a limited supply of these higher-quality first-time buyers and that that will be supplanted or replaced by a more typical first-time buyer who's buying a more affordable house? Well Steve that's a great question.
And we're certainly -- we have not tapped out the higher-income first-time buyer.
There's a lot of them out there.
And when I say our buyer is different today we've been able to flex our business model and take our product lines to higher-priced submarkets.
And if you look at an Orange County California or a Bay Area even parts of Houston we have first-time buyers that make over $100 000.
These people are -- they have good jobs.
They make good money.
They have great credit.
In a lot of cases they sat on the sidelines through the frenzy when prices run up so fast and now they're able to buy in better locations at a much lower price than they would have back in '06 or '07.
So they're moving to a great location and can afford frankly in a lot of cases more house than they're buying.
So it's a nice niche that we've in an odd way kind of had to go find because underwriting remains tight.
And I would -- just a hunch but I'll bet that the lower half of the first-time buyer pool has been taken out of the market right now because of underwriting being so tight.
I shared in my comments we remain committed to that niche.
And I do expect as underwriting normalizes over time that we can flex -- we'll hold their current business because it's a great business and we're executing well on it.
But we'll hold that business scale and add to it by going back out to different communities at a lower price point because there's a lot of demand and you can make a great return on investment there as well.
Depending on the volume mix between those 2 components it could conceivably lower price.
It wouldn't surprise me if it did but you would be raising your margins and your returns along the way because it's a very good business.
So that could be.
But as we sit here today there are so many questions on underwriting and it has not loosened up.
If anything it has probably gotten a little tighter.
So we will play where the business is.
And it's a nice business for us right now.
Research Division</strong> So just to paraphrase.
Your hunch is that as we go forward there's enough depth ongoing in the sort of higher-end first-time buyer that when the lower-end first-time buyer comes in it will truly be additive not a replacement.
And that's essentially what you're thinking? Correctly.
And it has to come back Steve.
And for the housing market to have a full and sustained recovery you have to start with the true first-time buyer not this upper-tier first-time buyer that we're catering to.
Your next question comes from the line of Anto Savarirajan from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> My first question is given the robust price appreciation in many of your markets I would be curious to hear your thoughts on how your underwriting criterion is evolving.
Underwriting for investment? Research Division</strong> Yes for land investment.
We're not banking on inflation.
It's part of our core investment guidelines.
And it's a very interesting balance right now because there is a frenzy going on especially in the most desirable submarkets where land prices as always go up faster than home prices as the market starts to recover.
And we're staying disciplined to you don't underwrite to inflation and you have to hit the combination of IRR and margin that we've set.
And it's a nice balance because it's a built-in governor where you don't just run out and buy everything that's out there because you can.
You have to stay disciplined on your strategy disciplined on the price point and the income of the consumer.
And we've been able to find opportunities in every marketplace today.
So as prices go up you would have to reset what you could pay for a lot in that submarket but we wouldn't bank on additional price.
That's a dangerous game.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
My next question it's been interesting to see that your inventory balance in the 0- to 2-year bucket has been growing over the year.
Post your 4Q land spend can you update us on where that bucket would now stand? Yes I'll address that a little bit.
The chart -- you're referring to the chart in the Q or in the K? I'm asking a question.
And we're going to have to guess at what you're asking.
It sounds like you dropped off the call.
If you're talking about the chart in the K or the Q that does vary a fair amount every quarter.
It's based on final closeout deliveries in the community and that's the way we age it in the chart.
So it's -- while it's insightful to a degree it moves around quite a bit depending on sales rates and staff at communities and lots left.
And I guess just one other housekeeping item before we get back to the general Q&amp;A sorry about that Stephen it sounded like you had dropped as well.
The homes under construction the dollar amount there at the end of the quarter is roughly $450 million.
So hopefully that addresses your question.
If not we can follow up later after the call.
Your next question comes from the line of Ivy Zelman from Zelman &amp; Associates.
LLC</strong> With respect to the community count can you just clarify Jeff either one of you the year-over-year growth we understand your expectations significantly increased.
But can you talk about the actual which quarter we should start to see year-over-year growth commence.
Because it appears just looking at the numbers you began the year with -- in 2012 you began the year with 234 you're now at 191 so it would appear that your significant growth in '13 but it looks like at least the beginning portion of the year you should be down year-over-year continuing is that correct? My first question if I could have a follow-up please.
Ivy I'll let Jeff give you the numbers.
But in the comments we've referred to sequential improvement each quarter going forward so we'll see how -- depends on what we close out and what we open in Q1.
But the comment was sequential from here running up through the year.
And Jeff can share some of the numbers with you.
Right right.
Right Ivy yes we did say it's back-end loaded so you're accurate in your review on the numbers.
We do expect to open about 55 communities within the first 6 months of the year within the first 2 quarters so depending on level of closeouts we'll have a various comp to prior year.
But we are rebuilding the community count.
And as we said the growth in actual year-over-year would be more back-end loaded but the sequential improvements...
LLC</strong> No no that's helpful.
That's exactly what we just wanted to clarify.
Sorry to interrupt.
I was scared about getting cut off.
But my second question related to your prior comments to the analyst asking about your Q disclosure.
There are portions of that Q disclosure that's very helpful and it provides great transparency.
Your peers should look at that or competitors I should say.
We agree.
LLC</strong> With respect to the -- you have in there that 35% of the inventory is now expected to deliver homes for at least 6 years and 10% is not expected to generate returns for more than a decade.
Can you tell us where that land is? How much is Inspirada? What if anything do you think that you can do to accelerate returns on these communities? And are these long time lines due to the fact that they can't generate acceptable margins.
Just help us understand it because that's actually the best disclosure we've seen but we’d like some more clarity please.
Right.
No I'm glad you're asking that Ivy.
The disclosure is -- I mean there was a couple of ways we could have gone about it and one way was based on first delivery and bucketed by time horizon based on first delivery and the second way was based on last delivery.
We took the more conservative so we bucketed the disclosure based on last delivery.
And what that gives you is really a very very conservative look at the land.
So if you had for example a large land position Inspirada’s a great example or anything where you had multiyear lot supply it shows up in the buckets in the disclosure in the latest possible period of last delivery.
So if you had an asset that you thought was going to last 7 years for example and your last delivery was 7 years out the full balance is shown on that 7-year bucket or in the category that includes a 7-year bucket.
So it's a very conservative disclosure.
We think it is somewhat insightful but it does move around quite a bit based on absorption rates inside the community.
LLC</strong> Is it geographically concentrated? Is that part or a big piece of that? It's -- yes it's right.
It is a big piece because it's a large lot count although that's actually classified in the joint venture.
They're still outside of the inventory balance.
So Inspirada hasn't even hit that yet but there's other large parcels that are in that that extend out...
LLC</strong> Hey if you're a leader Jeff which you are showing that you are in disclosure maybe you can help us to at least geographical if there's concentrations or percentages for the future Ks.
Okay.
We'll have a look at it Ivy.
Your next question comes from the line of David Goldberg from UBS.
Research Division</strong> My first question I want to go back to the conversation about the design studios and the design studios being a tool to help accelerate sales.
And I think given the environment that we've been in the last 4 5 years that makes a lot of sense trying to capture more customers.
What I'm trying to get an idea of is would you guys think about kind of repositioning the strategy there to make that more of a margin leader given that it really is a big differentiator between you and the competitors.
And you are hitting a higher-end kind of first-time buyer that maybe has more borrowing capacity.
Would you think about trying to make that a tool that would drive margin as you look forward into that recovery? And what would kind of drive you to do so? David we did that in the run-up.
Once you're above normalized margins and holding your sales pace that's one of the places you can go to lift margins further.
But at this time I would rather use it to sell houses and lift the margin on the base home because it's been a very predictable margin and the studio can move -- sales can move around on you where versus a home sale is a home sale.
And I think if you tie it to my observation that we've always had just about every quarter one of the highest sales paces per community in the industry we think one of the reasons for that is the studio process.
I'd rather have predicable margin in the base home use it to sell houses.
It is accretive to margin.
Don't think that it's an anchor.
It's just not the profit center.
And if the profits on the core home sell a lot of houses it -- hold your pace lift the normal margins and then you go tweak things a little more.
But in the short run we'd rather get back to normal margins first.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then as follow-up question.
The water intrusion issue it sounds like it was fairly geographically concentrated.
Is this a subcontractor-based problem? Do you feel like you guys have properly reserved for it? Are there any kind of issues out there from a similar establishment like that? Or is it taken care of? I'll let Jeff talk to the financial side David but we had some issues in a couple of multi-family communities where there were some applications that weren't done right.
You don't recognize the issue initially it takes time to develop.
And as it developed we've gone back in done the right thing and taken care of our customers.
So we did incur the cost and we've booked an accrual for whatever the additional cost is projected to be.
And once we've settled it all out and resolved things with our customer we'll go back and collect whatever we can for whoever was accountable that we can go after.
Right yes.
As to do we think we had the right amount accrued at the end of the year of course.
We did a very careful analysis of it at year end.
It was a large issue for us during the quarter and there was a lot of resources placed on it.
And we do think we have it properly accounted.
And your last question comes from the line of Nishu Sood from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> This is Rob Hansen on for Nishu.
I just -- I wanted to see if you could talk a little bit about your impairments this year.
Other than 2Q '11 last year it's been kind of a noticeable increase.
So are these impairments on any newly acquired land or are these all kind of legacy issues? And what's the state of your watch list as it's shrinking? Now the watch list is shrinking quite dramatically as the markets have been improving.
The issue in the quarter was really predominantly one landholding with 2 product lines on it.
So technically it was kind of those 2 communities.
With a community that's into a second phase and we had to make a decision whether to keep going with the community or to basically close it down and put it back in 'moth ball' status.
It was a community that we have taken out of moth ball earlier in the year and we actually took an impairment on the same community in the first quarter.
It's generating a tremendous amount of cash per lot for us and it was very close to the mark on even having the taken impairment.
But we were seeing good pace.
We're seeing good pricing development in that community.
It was something that we wanted to continue to work through.
And we made the business decision to continue to go through it and take the pain of the impairment in the quarter.
But like I said the earlier impairment we sold through all those lots very successfully during the year and that was a decision we'd wanted to make.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on your cancellation rates.
I know you had the issue with the mortgage company earlier this year.
But on the back half of the year it looks like that's been cleared up.
But the cancellation rates have kind of remained kind of elevated where everybody else's has declined to more kind of normal levels.
So I just wanted to see what's going on there.
Any other factors we should be thinking about? And what you'd kind of -- where you expect that to kind of go next year? A couple of comments I can make Rob.
If you look at the can rate as a percent of backlog it's continued to improve through the year.
And while we've now gained momentum in our Nationstar integration and they're taking more of our customer's loan apps we are still cleaning out whatever was in the backlog that was scattered around to the outside lenders.
And they're approaching their capture rate that we targeted and we'll continue to deliver at a higher percentage next year.
We're continuing to have a decline in other lender's business and that's where a lot of the can rate was again this quarter.
So we expect that our can rate will go down next year from here.
We would hope that it would because we'll have a more predictable business.
Within the can rate and I've shared this a lot it's important to understand we actually have 2 can rates: one is before start and one is after start.
And once a buyer's told their loan’s approved and they have finalized at the studio our can rate is significantly lower than it is on a home that hasn't been started yet.
So while the can rate is still elevated in my view and we're -- we expect it to come down some more after start it's actually at historical levels again.
It's pretty predictable 10% or so maybe a little over 10%.
So we think you'll see it trend down a little bit more through the 2013.
That was it.
Okay.
Well thanks again everyone for joining us this morning.
Have a happy holiday season and a happy new year.
And we look forward to talking to you after first of the year.
Thank you.
And this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Sarah and I will be your conference operator today.
I would like to welcome everyone to KB Home 2013 First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded and a live webcast is available on KB Home's website at kbhome.com.
The company will make a presentation and then open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] KB Home's discussion today may include forward-looking statements that reflect management's current views and expectations of market conditions future events and the company's business performance.
These statements are not guarantees of future results and the company does not undertake any obligation to update them.
Due to a number of factors outside of its control including those identified in its SEC filings the company's actual results could be materially different from those expressed and/or implied by the forward-looking statements.
A reconciliation of non-GAAP measures referenced during today's discussion to their most directly comparable GAAP measures can be found in the company's earnings release issued earlier today and/or on the Investor Relations page of the company's website.
I will now turn conference over to the company's Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Jeff Mezger.
Sir you may begin.
Thanks Sarah and good morning to everyone.
Thank you for joining us today for a review of our first quarter financial results.
With me this morning are Jeff Kaminski our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Bill Hollinger our Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer.
I will start today's call with an overview of our first quarter results followed by a more detailed discussion on many of the operational drivers behind our performance and then provide an outline of the key priorities we have set for 2013.
Next Jeff Kaminski will take you through the details of our financial results.
After which I will conclude our prepared comments with a few remarks before we once again open up the call to your questions.
Over the past few years we have worked diligently to reposition our communities with a focus on 2 primary components.
We prioritize our investments in select more dynamic housing markets and optimize our product designs and model offerings for today's consumer preferences with the expectation that these 2 moves would accelerate our progress towards our goal of sustained profitability.
Our hard work on all fronts is now paying off and we are pleased that our first quarter results reflect meaningful improvement in our financial and operational metrics.
While we recognize we still have work to do in achieving normalized profit levels our actions have now positioned us for profitability and growth.
Some of the highlights of the quarter that illustrate our progress include: Our revenues increased 59% year-over-year in the first quarter and we substantially reduced our net loss.
We improved our operating margin by 12.5 percentage points and reported operating income for the third straight quarter.
Our net order value increased by 83%.
The year-over-year increase in our backlog value of 53% has us well positioned with future revenues of more than $700 million in backlog at the end of February.
We intensified our land acquisition and development activities during the quarter nearly doubling our sizable fourth quarter spend by investing approximately $350 million in land and land development.
Additionally we've strengthened our liquidity position by more than $0.5 billion through both our very successful capital raise and our recently announced revolving credit facility which further support our accelerated growth strategy.
We are confident that we will be profitable for 2013 and with the backdrop of a housing recovery that is now accelerating we feel it is the right time to step up our investment and growth.
Our KBnxt business model remains our guide that drives our key strategies actions and results.
Our fact-based approach to land acquisition enables us to identify the right land and market opportunities.
Over the past few years we have proactively focused our land investment on key states that feature high economic and demographic growth projections and in highly desirable cities with strong existing demand and in -- within submarkets of these cities that have strong consumer preference are land-constrained and which feature higher household incomes.
Our communities are then properly positioned with the right floor plans square footage and features to appeal to the income levels of our core first-time and first move-up homebuyers in these robust locations.
Our first quarter results demonstrate that this strategy is paying off.
As 2013 progresses more and more of our land investments over the past 12 months will convert to open communities supporting our expectation for a continuing trend over the balance of the year.
While our strategy is to invest in these higher priced more desirable submarkets we remain committed to our core first-time homebuyer segment.
The difference is in these higher preference locations first-time homebuyers have higher incomes and more importantly are better able to qualify for a mortgage in today's financing environment.
These buyers are responding to our Built to Order process and larger model offerings and after selecting from these larger square footage plans are also adding more structural options and design features at our studios which further contributes to the high total revenue per sale.
This strategy is playing out nationally as our average square footage continues to grow and is reflected in the fact that our year-over-year average selling price is up significantly in all 4 of our regions.
In the first quarter our average price was $271 000 which represents an increase of nearly 25% over the same period in 2012.
This marks the 11th consecutive quarter of year-over-year increases in average selling price.
And even at these higher ASPs first-time homebuyers represented 60% of the homes we delivered.
In addition to the actions we have taken to change our product positioning we opportunistically increased pricing as the market allows to control the pace of sales on valuable assets that are not easily replaceable.
We monitor sales pace and price on a weekly basis at every community to optimize each asset's profitability.
As further proof of the success of our location and product strategy we are achieving this significant increase in our average selling price while maintaining strong sales per community.
Our year-over-year sales per community improved dramatically with approximately 10 sales per community this quarter.
While I am pleased with our 40% year-over-year increase in unit sales I am even more pleased with our sales value increase of 83%.
Revenue growth is far more meaningful to our business than unit growth.
And this value result is the best illustration of the momentum our repositioning is now creating for our company's future financial results.
As I've shared on previous calls one of the key strengths of KB Home is our leading market position in California.
We continue to be the largest builder in the state and have plans in place for significant growth.
As you can see from our regional breakdown California is a major contributor to our improved results this quarter.
This state features a large and diverse population and economy.
And due to the inherent land constraints and entitlement process even in the peak years of the last cycle housing demand was still not met.
Additionally California is the largest U.S.
gateway to the international community and has historically attracted in migration from other countries.
As a result of this significant demand in place just as in previous cycles the market upturns are more dramatic here when the recovery takes hold.
You may have heard within the industry that it's difficult to find lots in California and it is.
However our large presence and long-standing track record in the state makes us the land buyer of choice and we are successfully closing on significant opportunities.
In just the first quarter we acquired several communities in the choicest locations throughout the state from the Bay Area in the North to San Diego in the South.
Many of these transactions came to us first.
And that sellers know we can and will perform because we understand the markets can navigate the entitlement challenges know our products and cost and have the financial wherewithal to move quickly.
Our reputation and relationships are valuable assets that we will continue to leverage as we tap this large vibrant housing market.
Another key driver in our improving results is our successful and maturing relationship with Nationstar our preferred lender.
As I have mentioned on previous calls the past 24 months underscored the tremendous impact that not having a true mortgage partner can have on our Built to Order business.
Our relationship with Nationstar is gaining traction and we continue to be very pleased with the results we are seeing higher levels of customer satisfaction quicker and more consistent loan approvals and more predictable deliveries.
As one example of their favorable impact on our business during the first quarter Nationstar averaged 15 days for final documentation and closing after completion of the home whereas other outside lenders averaged 24 days.
This 9-day reduction in cycle time to closing is significant for our business and we expect that these times will compress even further as the working relationship between the teams becomes more established.
In January we announced the formation of Home Community Mortgage with Nationstar creating a new mortgage company that will offer mortgage banking services to KB Home customers.
This venture is the natural progression of our relationship further aligning our 2 companies' common goals of customer satisfaction and optimal performance.
We expect that this new company should be operational by the end of the year once all licensing and agency approvals have been completed.
At that time in addition to the benefits of improved backlog management and reduced cycle time this business should also provide an attractive new earnings stream to KB Home.
We also feel that our industry-leading position in energy efficiency enhances our sales results and is an important competitive differentiator for KB Home.
Our strategy is to lower the total cost of home ownership by adding standard energy features that lower monthly utility bills while not materially adding to the cost of a home.
We have made significant progress in this area over the past few years.
While our studios offer many additional energy options for the consumer as well they also allow us to offer pilot programs for new options where we can gauge consumer interest at various price levels for new energy products.
When the buyer reaction is strong we will work to leverage our scale and to reduce our cost for the item due to a national commitment with that supplier to include it as standard.
This allows us to really zero in on to what the consumer feels is important and as critical what they are willing to pay for in this dynamic and critical area of our industry.
As a prime example of our leadership we have a very successful program with solar power options particularly in California where state and local rebates make it even more attractive for consumers.
You may have seen our recent media coverage where we celebrated the delivery of our 1 000th solar home in Southern California in a program that was introduced just 18 months ago.
We have received numerous awards for our sustainability initiatives and energy-efficient homes.
In fact earlier this month we were honored with the ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year Sustained Excellence Award by the EPA.
We are the only builder to win this most prestigious award for 3 years in a row.
While we appreciate the recognition the real win is with our homebuyers who are responding to the compelling value of our energy-efficient homes.
It is our goal to continually introduce new energy-efficient features and options and we have plans to unveil many more products over the balance of this year.
As I shared my opening comments the results of our actions give us confidence that KB Home will be profitable for 2013.
Looking ahead we have established our top company priorities for this year to capitalize on our momentum.
At a high level these priorities are first enhancing profitability; and second accelerating top line growth.
First I will share some comments on enhancing our profitability.
Although there are always opportunities to reduce overhead much of the heavy lifting has been done.
The more impactful way to improve profit per unit going forward is by attacking key areas in both revenue and cost to build.
As I mentioned we will increase base prices wherever the market allows.
But this is not our core strategy as we know it is not sustainable in the long run.
Therefore we rely on our KBnxt business model with its Built to Order approach to maximize the profit margin of these sales.
Our ability to continuously improve our product offerings streamline our processes increase premiums and option revenue per home and share these best practices across all of our divisions is a real competitive advantage.
We have held to our Built to Order discipline through the downturn and it will now play a large role in margin expansion as the markets normalize.
Examples of revenue opportunities we have identified include increasing the premiums we can command for lots pricing the plan and elevation frequencies as well as enhancing our studio revenues.
We know through our built to order experience that we can achieve higher lot premiums due to our customers selecting the lot of their choice for their personalized home.
We track lot premiums at a percent of revenue and our lot premiums today are almost a full percentage point below our average performance in a normal housing environment.
When managing in turbulent times lot premiums are one of the first things to get negotiated and compromised.
With the ongoing recovery and as we have increased focus on capturing more of this opportunity we are already seeing a positive impact on our results.
Another opportunity for pricing is in optimizing plan frequency premiums.
We know from our database which floor plans and features each consumer segment prefers and most importantly what they are willing to pay for.
An example of frequency premiums would be single stories in Nevada and Arizona where these designs are very desirable.
In tougher times when you are trying to get the sale you accept an average margin on a single story and move on.
In today's environment it is not uncommon in some markets to get a 5% or 10% premium for the single-story plan as compared to a similar sized 2-story home in the same neighborhood.
The same holds true for pricing to exterior elevation frequencies.
On all of these items we have reports that track results and are visible company-wide so we can act react and share best practices very quickly.
We're also going on offense to drive more profit from our studios.
I have always maintained that the studio strategy is primarily to help us sell homes.
Now that markets are recovering there are refinements we are making in additional product offerings and our pricing strategy on these offerings to drive more gross margin.
This was particularly the case on options that are not easily installed after the home is completed such as structural options like room additions bay windows and covered patios.
Our strategy remains the same.
But we have ways to extend and leverage this unique element of our business.
We're also identifying ways to improve our studio results by reviewing the size of our retail spaces and staffing levels to maximize products on display and ensuring optimal studio experience for our customers.
We know the consumer places a high value on the customization of their home.
We also know that it offers a great opportunity to enhance profitability today.
I believe we have as much as an additional 1% to 2% margin lift over time in our studios.
While we are concentrating our efforts on these revenue opportunities at the same time we're also working to identify ways to lower our cost to build through actions such as best practice sharing and procurement even-flow production efficiencies and value engineering in our product.
Our purchasing effort is one of the core strengths of our business model.
There is no question that as construction activity levels have increased there has been pressure on labor and material cost.
While we have been able to raise prices to offset these costs to date we know there is a limited strategy and we are constantly looking for ways to lower our cost to build.
We rely on our vendor relationships many of which have been in existence for as long as 25 years to help us identify and realize savings.
In addition most of the purchasing for a home is still performed at a local level.
And with our standardized processes and product series we can compare budgets for the same floor plans from across the system identify gaps and share best practices to capture real savings in every plan.
In essence while purchasing is local our teams benefit from the opportunity to tap the resources of a large national group of experts focused on the same task.
With our sales pace now more predictable we also now have an adequate backlog of sold and unstarted homes and as a result we're doing a far better job of even-flow starts and deliveries.
At the end of the first quarter we were positioned with the best distribution of units per construction stage that we have experienced in many years.
This is another area where through partnering with our contractor base we're able to fend off increases or actually realize decreases as we ramp up our activity levels and improve our even-flow rhythm.
Our contractors understand the benefits of even-flow production.
And in many cases they are able to improve their profitability while also offering us a lower price for their services.
In addition as our activity levels increase across the system there are cost savings realized due to economies of scale.
Over the years we have been zealous in our efforts to be the low-cost producer of new homes.
We have an in-house architecture group that does a great job of creating standardized product series designed to our surveys that balance cost-efficient construction designs with floor plans and features we know our consumers want and that have great curb appeal.
With standardized product series designed with standardized components we are very efficient in taking out cost and recognizing the savings.
Whether it is cost reduction or revenue enhancement these are only a few of the opportunities we have as a result of our companywide KBnxt business model.
None of these offer major impact in the short run.
But over time through many actions we can favorably impact our margins in a material way.
As we enter the second quarter we already have the expectation that our gross profit margin will improve sequentially each quarter for the remainder of the year.
As a result of increased focus on these types of initiatives we have a lot of for further improvement.
An equally important priority for the company this year is pushing our top line growth.
We have created momentum in our growth trajectory and we now want to take it up even further.
With markets now recovering at an accelerated pace it is the right time to really push the accelerator on growth.
Let me outline a few of the key areas we are concentrating on: Significantly increasing our land and land development investment; capturing market share in our served markets through community count growth; and driving further improvement in our sales pace per community.
As we have reported we invested approximately $350 million in land and land development in the first quarter which is a significant increase over previous quarters.
While I've already spoken about our strength in California we have seasoned land teams on the ground around the system that are finding investment opportunities that are aligned with our location and price point strategies.
With our successful equity raise and recently announced revolver we have the firepower to support our accelerated growth targets.
In fact we are now projecting that for the year we will invest in excess of $1 billion on land acquisition and development depending on market conditions and acquisition opportunities.
We are comfortable with our current geographic footprint.
We have proven expertise in our land teams and strategies in place to drive increased market share.
A core tenet of our business model is to sustain a large presence in each of our served markets.
And we know that there is still significant upside before we would come close to competing with ourselves.
To give you a sense of this opportunity we delivered approximately 25 000 homes in our peak year from our current footprint.
We also see opportunity to drive increased sales pace per community.
While we are disciplined in our effort to not let our communities run too fast not every community have this issue.
We will continue to monitor pace in our winners and at the same time work to raise the sales pace of those communities that are underperforming today.
I'm personally committed to driving this year's profit and growth initiatives and we have set specific measurable goals for each division in every component.
I look forward to updating you on our progress in these areas as the year unfolds.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jeff Kaminski who will offer the details on our financials in the quarter.
Thank you Jeff and good morning.
Our results clearly reflect another quarter of progress in improving our operating performance as most of our financial metrics are considerably better than the first quarter of 2012.
For the first quarter of 2013 we reduced our net loss by over $33 million or $0.43 per share as compared to the same period of the prior year.
Higher top line revenues combined with significant improvements in our housing gross margin percentage and SG&amp;A expense ratio accounted for the majority of the improvement.
As a result of the 29% increase in homes delivered and 24% higher average selling price our first quarter total revenues of $405 million increased by 59% versus Q1 of the prior year.
All 4 of our geographic regions reported increased housing revenues for the first quarter with the strength of our West Coast region continuing to account for the majority of the increase.
In the West Coast region our revenues were up more than $100 million or 96% from the first quarter of 2012 with the Southeast and Central regions up 68% and 33% respectively.
As Jeff described earlier our strategic land investment in highly desirable land-constrained submarkets combined with our trend of increasing square footage and a general market price lift has extended our streak of year-over-year average selling price increases to 11 consecutive quarters.
Our overall average selling price for homes delivered during the first quarter was approximately $271 000.
This represents a significant year-over-year increase of over $52 000 or 24% and is off slightly higher on a sequential basis as compared to the fourth quarter of 2012.
Average selling prices were higher in all 4 regions with year-over-year increases ranging from 13% to 22%.
We expect to see a continuation of the trend in our overall average selling price with both year-over-year and sequential improvements in each of the remaining quarters of 2013.
We anticipate that our ASP for the full 2013 fiscal year will be over $280 000 an improvement of at least 14% as compared to $246 500 for 2012.
Moving now to housing gross profit margin.
We recorded a first quarter result of 14.8% as compared to 8% in the same quarter of 2012.
Excluding the $6.6 million impairment charge in the prior year quarter we realized a 420 basis point improvement driven by community mix pricing actions improved leverage on fixed cost and lower closing cost allowances partially offset by the impact of higher direct construction costs.
The current quarter gross profit margin also reflected a slight sequential improvement as compared to the fourth quarter of 2012 despite the negative impact from the loss of fixed cost leverage due to lower revenues.
As noted in our press release we reclassified the expense relating to closing costs allowances provided to certain homebuyers from SG&amp;A expense to construction and land cost in order to be more consistent with the practice of other public homebuilders.
Prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current treatment.
We will include a schedule in the first quarter investor presentation that we will post on our website later today that summarizes the 2012 quarterly gross margin and SG&amp;A results reflecting this reclassification.
For the remainder of the year we expect to see sequential improvement in our quarterly housing gross profit margin.
While we are focused on top line growth and gross margin expansion we also maintain a close watch on controlling our overhead costs as a key component of our plan to continue to improve our operating margins.
As a result of our ongoing efforts over the last few years to reduce overhead expenses we are well positioned to leverage our lower-cost platforms at higher delivery volumes which will further improve our bottom line.
This can be seen in our first quarter results.
Even as our revenues increased significantly during the quarter and we implemented accelerated profitable growth initiatives we continued our cost containment discipline and realized a meaningful improvement in our SG&amp;A ratio.
Our selling general and administrative expenses for the quarter were $59 million or 14.7% of housing revenues as compared to $51 million or 20.4% of housing revenues in the first quarter of 2012.
This represents the lowest first quarter levels since 2007 and reflects the year-over-year improvement of nearly 600 basis points.
For the first quarter of 2013 we increased our year-over-year housing revenues by over $150 million while holding our SG&amp;A expense increase to less than $8 million.
We expect further improvement in our overall SG&amp;A expense ratio as we continue to contain costs while growing our quarterly housing revenues through the remainder of the fiscal year.
In addition as a result of the expense reclassification that I explained earlier and other previously implemented cost reduction initiatives the variable component of our SG&amp;A expense is now running at approximately 5% of housing revenue.
The significant improvements in both our housing gross margin and SG&amp;A expense ratio drove a 12.5 percentage point increase in our operating income margin as we reported $0.5 million of operating income in the first quarter of 2013 as compared to an operating loss of approximately $31 million in the same period of the prior year.
We expect to realize continued year-over-year improvement as well as better sequential performance in our operating income margin for the remainder of the year.
On the fourth quarter 2012 earnings call we told you that we were considering a revision to our community count definition.
We have completed the review of our methodology and have raised the threshold for an open selling community to 5 lots left to sell in order to improve consistency with the rest of the peer group when comparing absorption rates.
As you may recall our community count previously represented communities with one or more lots left to sell.
We are reporting our community count results for all periods using the revised methodology and will continue to do so in the future.
Later today on our website we will include a schedule that summarizes our community count for each quarter of 2011 and 2012 reflecting this methodology.
Our community count was relatively flat for the first quarter of 2013 as we opened 15 new communities and closed out 16.
As of February 28 2013 we have 171 communities open for sales.
The average for the first quarter was about 172 communities as compared to an average of 193 communities for the first quarter of 2012.
Despite the 11% decline in average community count our net orders were up 40% year-over-year reflecting an increase in our absorption rate of 56% from 6.2 net orders per community in the first quarter of 2012 to 9.7 in the same period of this year.
This improvement reflects both the positive effects of our community repositioning as we opened 60 new communities over the past 4 quarters as well as the strengthening housing markets in the cities where we operate.
We anticipate that our community count will increase sequentially for each of the remaining quarters during 2013 more heavily weighted towards the second half of the year as our land acquisitions and development activities convert into open communities.
We still plan to open a total of more than 120 new communities during the fiscal year.
We believe we can increase our fourth quarter average community count in a range of 15% as compared to prior year period depending on absorption rates and the resulting pace of closeouts.
We invested approximately $345 million in land acquisitions and development during the first quarter including land acquisitions partially funded by seller financing.
This brings our total investment over the past 4 quarters to almost $800 million driving our planned committee account expansion a key component of our profitable growth strategy.
We plan to continue to aggressively invest in land assets that meet or exceed our return expectations and anticipate that our total investment for the 2013 fiscal year will exceed $1 billion.
To continue to fuel this driver of community count growth and in turn top line revenues we added over $500 million of liquidity since the end of the fiscal year.
During the first quarter we enhanced our balance sheet and better aligned our capital structure for accelerated growth through the execution of concurrent public offerings of common stock and convertible senior notes.
These offerings were heavily oversubscribed with full exercises of overallotment options for both issuances.
We raised net proceeds of $333 million from these 2 transactions.
Following the success of the capital market transactions we recently finalized an unsecured revolving credit facility in an initial principal amount of $200 million with an option to potentially increase the principal amount to $300 million.
We obviously are extremely pleased with the success of these transactions and the meaningful impact that will have on driving future profitable growth for KB Home.
During the first quarter we had a net cash usage of $211 million from operating activities as compared to a net usage of $109 million for the same period of 2012.
However excluding cash used for land and development initiative -- investments from both periods we generated $110 million of operating cash in Q1 2013 a solid improvement of almost $107 million compared to the $3 million generated in the first quarter of last year.
We ended the quarter with $669 million in total cash to support our community expansion plan and profitable growth strategy.
Now I will turn the call back over to Jeff Mezger for some final remarks.
Thanks Jeff.
Before I make my concluding comments let me first take a moment to thank the talented KB Home employees who continue to work hard everyday to maximize shareholder value drive our business forward and help deliver the dream of homeownership to our customers.
I would also like to underscore today's key messages.
We have momentum in our business and expect to continue to generate improved quarterly financial results as the year unfolds.
The pace of the market recovery is accelerating providing a tailwind to our actions.
While we are pleased with the significant progress we have made in our financial metrics we know that we have more work to do to achieve normalized profit levels.
Our investments and product strategies are working.
And as a result we are experiencing higher sales rates per community while also driving significant growth in our average selling price.
Even though we are investing in higher-priced submarkets we remain committed to the core first-time and first move-up homebuyers.
We have rolled out our 2013 priorities of enhancing profitability and accelerating top line growth.
As part of these initiatives we have specific actions with goals in place for revenue enhancement direct cost reduction and community count growth with every division and our progress against these goals is tracked monthly.
We will capitalize on our Built to Order business model to continue to capture additional opportunities for improvement in our operational and financial results.
We intend to accelerate our top line growth by investing more than $1 billion on land acquisition and development during 2013.
Finally although the pace of the housing market recovery is gaining momentum it is important to keep in mind that we are still in the early stages of the recovery.
And there's a long way to go before  the industry reaches normalized activity levels.
Between the market recovery our business momentum and our go-forward strategies we have confidence that we will not only achieve profitability this year we will leverage the spring coil in our growth platform to drive profitable growth going forward.
Now we will be glad to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question I just wanted to focus on the gross margins.
You had nice improvement there.
And I know you pointed to several areas that could drive further improvement and of course also guided to sequential improvement throughout the year.
So in terms of the gross margins can you give us any sense of where you think you might be able to end the year given what you already have in backlog given some of the trends? And when you talk about option or lot premiums I believe you said 1% below in studio revenues another 1 or 2 points of margin.
Just want to make sure I understand those are longer-term opportunities that in aggregate would be another 200 to 300 bps to the gross margin? Okay Mike I did use those numbers and they are over the long term and that would be closer to what we've achieved in what I keep referring to as our normalized market.
I wanted to walk through those items in that frankly they may not be available to all the other builders.
Our business model provides some real opportunity to pull levers that are visible for us.
And in working with our Built to Order consumer you know where you can push a little bit here a little bit there on price and you can also lever a little bit differently on the cost.
You didn't hear me talk about banging on contractors on the cost side because they will just go run to another community somewhere.
So I think they are differentiators.
And I think they'll start to illustrate real benefit moving forward.
Same holds true on the lot premium side and everything I talked about because most of those are tied to experiences in our past over the last 15 years of running the business model.
At this time we're not going to give you a specific guidance on the gross profit for the rest here other than we expect the sequential improvement.
We'll see how the spring market unfolds and how things work out for the rest of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
No I appreciate that Jeff.
I guess the second question is around your land spend and your community count growth that would result from the acceleration you are putting in place right now.
With the guidance which is appreciated of 4Q average being up roughly 15% year-over-year it would seem that there's still a lot more runway looking into fiscal '14 in terms of additional community count growth than -- obviously you haven't given guidance for fiscal '14 but it would seem to me that given the material increase in land spend it would be safe to assume at least a double-digit or at least a 10% incremental growth on average for fiscal '14.
Is that fair to say Jeff? And I guess I'm talking not just to Jeff Mezger but Jeff Kaminski as you're looking at some of those acquisition outlays.
Sure.
Well Mike there's no question we expect to continue a strong growth trajectory.
That's our goal.
And I shared the high side number.
We've already delivered in these markets in the past.
There isn't a single market we're in that's even close to the maximum market share that we're comfortable with.
So we have a lot of upside in every market that we're in and they're now all recovering and there's opportunities in every city to push community count growth.
One of the things that slows it down a little is that the more desirable locations don't typically have a lot of finished lots on the ground.
So that's what I referred to as when '13 unfolds you'll see us open more communities because we're having to do some development or all the development to get them open.
And as we continue to increase our spend we expect to continue to grow our community count and what moves around a little bit it's how fast you sell out of the existing.
But Jeff shared the number for the year and we're certainly not going to stop there.
We want to keep pushing the envelope because we think it's the right time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Any thoughts around that 10% minimum number for fiscal '14 or you're not going to go there at this point? Mike I think at this point we're still really focused on profits and setting up a growth trajectory going forward out in the future years and prefer not to guide on '14 right now.
But your overall assumptions and the way you're thinking about it I think are correct.
I mean we spent $800 million over the last 4 quarters.
We just sort of talked about today $1 billion target for the current year.
And yes we hope to drive community count growth moving forward as a result of that.
I think it will be hard not to if we achieved with those land spend goals.
Now all at the same time upholding our discipline on returns et cetera and making sure we're making wise investments with the funds available.
But yes that's the goal of the company is to continue to drive the top line with community count increases.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Wetenhall from RBC.
This is [indiscernible] for Bob.
So I wanted to get -- I just had a question about backlog conversion rates.
It looks like this quarter sort of above trend of declining rate on a year-over-year basis.
So I was hoping to get more color on that along with what you're seeing in terms of labor availability and cycle times and how that will impact the conversion rates going forward? Right.
I guess just to start with the conversion rates and I don't know Jeff want to go after that.
But the -- on the conversion yes we did -- we came in at what we call more or less normalized.
I mean the high 50s we're looking at right around 60% as being normalized I think.
Second quarter last year third quarter last year first quarter this year we're already in that range.
Fourth quarter is typically a little bit higher.
We had a bit lower conversion rate in the first quarter of last year.
But I'd say that 60% run rate is more or less normal for us.
Really in our business model if it gets higher than that it's -- because we didn't have enough backlog in the earlier stages for the future quarters' delivery.
So in our normal rhythm we'll typically range either side of 60%.
So it is a fairly typical expectation for us going forward.
On the subcontractor side there's definitely some issues depending on which city and which trade you talk about.
And I think it's one of the strengths that we have due to our long-standing relationships or the benefits of our business model that we have an opportunity do a better job in retaining contractors.
It comes and goes.
There's nothing that's holding us up from really slowing down our construction cycle.
You just -- you move through it and deal with it and as I always say it's a much nicer problem to have than having too many subs and not enough houses under construction.
So it's just part of the challenge of an industry that's recovering.
But we're able to successfully navigate it and deliver on our expectation.
Your next question comes from the line of Megan McGrath from MKM Partners.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow up a little bit on your conversation about your shift in strategy to these higher-income submarkets.
Looking forward let's go another year or so where we're into the recovery so the volume is higher.
Do you imagine that you would sort of prefer to pursue that strategy in new geographies and target those kind of buyer let's say in a new city? Or do you see yourself rather moving outward to perhaps a lower income lower-priced consumer but taking advantage of the fact that you're already in a particular geography? Megan as I shared in the prepared comments and mentioned on a previous question we have significant upside in the markets that we're in whether it's the -- our market share frankly even at today's scale in those markets and the activity level in the cities or where they could head to.
And you're always going to make more money staying in markets you know and leveraging your current team and platform as opposed to going into a new city.
At some point in time to keep your growth trajectory you have to go into additional cities and there were some that we've been in before.
We don't see that for some time as a requirement.
If there's the right opportunity we may consider it.
But we think there's a lot of upside where we're at.
And as these recoveries continue to mature and accelerate what it does is open up more submarkets where there's a nice balance of supply and demand and there's an adequate buyer pool to fuel growth at a little bit lower price point.
And then lastly I think if mortgage underwriting were to stabilize and normalize you'll see a lot of demand unleashed as well.
So we're -- in our business model we have the ability to react and be nimble and fluid and go where the opportunities are.
And right now for the rest of this year we see this as an incredible opportunity how we're positioned today.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then I wanted to follow up a little bit on your comments around value engineering.
And there's a lot of folks talking about this.
And it's a little bit surprising that we're -- honestly that we're still kind of hearing about it now.
I mean I would assume that during the deep part of the downturn everyone was trying to squeeze every possible cost out of construction that they could.
So I guess -- and could you tell us a little bit about what's new to this process now versus a couple of years ago? And what are you able to kind of get out now? I would assume that this -- maybe I'm wrong but would have been a big part of what you were trying to do over the past 5 years or so.
It's a never ending process Megan.
As your business evolves and your product evolves and -- we keep shifting our product line whether it's a smaller footage or a larger footage and at different price points you think you need to have different features.
And then you find out maybe you didn't.
And you're constantly testing it.
And along the way there's always something in the house that you fail to recognize before that you can go back and deal with and lower your cost.
So it'll -- whether it's a spec-level item or a structural item we never compromise structure.
But there's things you can do in framing all the time in the way things are framed where there's little opportunities here and there.
So I'm not looking for major major reductions in cost.
Right now we're trying to hold cost because there's a lot of pressure on that side.
And we think there's opportunities through our approach to do that.
In the long run I think there's opportunities that walk-through whether it's leverage in our scale or you take this out over here.
But keep in mind if we have a home that we build a couple of thousand of our -- around a system a floor plan and you save $1 000 it's a meaningful number when you can leverage it across your company.
So that's why I said none of these on their own are going to be major impact to the bottom line.
But over time a little bit here a little bit there starts to add up it is a process -- ongoing process.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Oppenheim from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering you talked about some of the initiatives and priorities for 2013 in terms of maximizing revenues and such but then no one talked about the absorption here at the start of the year.
I guess wondering do these priorities get really in full swing at the start of the year? Or is it more here in the second quarter as it is now? I guess thinking about those absorption levels I want to think that you could potentially be pushing the pricing even a bit more than you are.
Good question Dan and maybe I wasn't clear in my comments.
But we have a lot of communities that are in great situations where there's incredible demand strong price and it's a land constraint situation and you will meter the sales out to optimize pricing.
But not all your communities are absolute screaming home runs.
And we're not going to push the pace higher in the winners.
You go there to keep it in balance and I keep saying optimize the asset.
But in every city we have communities that are not performing at the level you would like.
So those are the ones you go attack.
And if is something doing 2 a month then you can get it to 4 a month where you have a lot of lots so that's not selling like you would want it to.
That's where you go.
You hold the winners and you monitor your success which is what we've been doing for 1 year 1.5 years and -- on the desirable ones.
And on the underperformers well well those are the ones we'll go attack and figure out ways to make them sell better.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then a second question just wondering about land I think at the end of the last fiscal year about half the land investment was in the West Coast.
You've been talking about in the first quarter majority in California so the West Coast.
As you think about the $1 billion for this year will it be similar majority in the West? Or what balance are you thinking for in terms of targeting? It'll continue to be the majority in the West in part the lot costs are much higher than many of our other states.
But we're looking to push growth in all of our states but California is more capital intense.
I don't know if you want to give them percentage in the quarter.
Yes in the quarter we invested about 75% of the total acquisition development dollars into the West region.
And as Jeff said we see that trend more or less continuing.
The mix of the business as you know our revenues are slightly over 50% in California and the land costs are higher.
So just naturally if we were just going to replicate our current mix we'd be up over the other regions in investment in the state.
Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Kim from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> It's John filling in for Steve.
I wanted to address volumes really quick.
Back when you guys preannounced the volumes for January 18 things were running off 54%.
But since then it seems like things have slowed be an up 30% year-over-year.
With the tougher comp in 2Q how do you feel about your order trends heading into the second quarter? And could you give any color as to early -- earlier read on spring selling season? Right.
I think first of all you should probably check your math a little bit on the quarter.
The absorption rate actually in the second half of the quarter accelerated versus the first 7 weeks.
What changed was the year-over-year comparison and that was the guidance actually we put into that original release that where we said the increase would moderate the variance would moderate year-over-year but not the orders.
So the orders did accelerate for the second half of the quarter.
But as Jeff has mentioned a couple of times we are watching the pace versus price trade-off.
We do know most of our community count increase will be in the second half of the year.
So we're being careful in how we're managing our committees and what we have open and the pace of sales.
And as long as we sell strong through the spring we're going to be well set up to hit our business plan top line revenues for the year and therefore our profit objectives.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
Switching gears just to the home community JV.
Can you maybe give us any color like the -- or any impact at the recent QM regs pertaining to the affiliated mortgage services and the proposed 3% cap? How that's affecting how you're looking at structuring the JV and what businesses you may or may not be involved in.
Are you looking to be involved in title insurance appraisals or is it more going to be strictly mortgage origination? For starters QM is in a review mode I'll call it.
The regs don't kick in 'til next January and a few of them are actually still being written.
So our industry group is working on all that first to understand it so you can then link it to each company's business and they can see how it impacts them.
In our case in our venture with Nationstar this is -- we're going into this purely as a mortgage originator to service our customers and possibly some outside business depending on the strategy down the road.
We do have a small business in title insurance and homeowners insurance that we operate under KB.
And if you just put the 3% with -- and we're still trying to understand which of those regs will apply to a venture.
And whatever the regs are we'll comply with them.
But as we said here we don't see a big impact to our business combined with this venture because of the 3-point cap.
Your next question comes from the line of Buck Home from Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Quickly I was wondering could you give away or give an idea how many mothball communities you have? And maybe with the dollar value on the balance sheet of inventory associated with mothball communities? We have right around 100 communities about $650 million I think it will be in the Q in the details.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And any idea of that how many are coming back this year or next? Any schedule there? Well like we were porting last year.
I mean we activated about 21 committees fairly recently over the last few months.
Some are still in the process of being activated.
We review the communities on a very regular basis.
Monthly in at least quarterly in in every community.
And as the market conditions continue to improve and as our current portfolio shifts we'll continue to activate committees.
And what I mean by that if we have a committee down the road that's already open obviously we'll wait for that to close out or approach close out and transition over to some of the new ones.
There's -- they're on various states of development and analysis and it's a focus area for the company.
We'll continue to focus there.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And I know this may be a little bit hard to do.
But how much of the ASP increase that you're seeing right now? Is there a weight that you can estimate how much of that is product mix or geography mix versus core same plan-type price increases? Do you have an idea of kind of what same product price increases you're putting through are right now? Right.
It's a little difficult because as you can imagine with a churn of communities in and out it's never same for 2 periods in a row.
But we would say about 2/3 of the increase is really result of the strategy the repositioning of the communities of the increase in the square footage which is coming from things like modeling larger models offering larger plans et cetera.
So we think fully 2/3 of it is coming from that area.
Obviously we are going and achieving and enjoying actually some sales price increases in various markets.
But we think 2/3 is actually coming from the strategy.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So maybe like 7% 8% kind of core price increase like true price increase? It could be in that range.
I mean we think -- I would say it's probably in the 5% to 10% range.
Your next question comes from the line of David Goldberg from UBS.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Sue for David today.
Looking at your energy-efficient products and some of the solar home programs and things that you talked about around those as you move into these better located markets where you have a stronger first-time buyer or move-up buyer are you seeing any change in how the buyers value that and maybe in the sort of benefit that that can be longer term to improving your profitability? Sure.
As I've mentioned it we're a great consumer laboratory in this area because of the way we can test products with various consumer segments and run it all through our studio.
So we can see how the buyer respond.
One of the things I didn't mention that's a big part of this is educating the buyer.
First-time buyers in particular don't spend a lot of time thinking about their utility cost until they live in a home and get the first bill.
And my general summary would be all consumers are interested in lowering their utility bills.
The higher up you go in the income levels the more they're willing to pay for it because it will take a longer time for the payback.
But they'll make that investment to get the payback over time.
A great example is our solar programs in California have rebates where you can actually upsize your solar all the way to a net zero house.
And the more you go up in kilowatts the bigger the rebate from the federal government for the upgrade.
And in an odd way the upgrades are basically offset.
The cost of the upgrades are offset by the amount of the rebate.
So you pay for it now and you get it back through your tax benefit.
And in the first-time buyer communities there's not a lot of upgrading going on because it may be it's just too complex or they don't have the tax structure to see the benefit.
As you go up in the income levels it becomes a more popular option.
So that's a great example of the different consumer behaviors.
And today there's not a lot of inventory out there.
Our biggest competitor in normal times is resale.
And with the age of much of the resale stock in the most desirable areas it's an even bigger compelling reason.
We have examples around the system where people's utility bills are down $300 $400 $500 a month from what they were paying in their resale that they moved out of.
So I think the more the consumer understands it and the more technology advances and cost continue to come down for the products I think you'll see this become a very significant and integral part of homebuilding.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of the sort of the premiums the kind of options that people are taking.
Generally speaking as the homes are getting bigger and maybe people are willing to take on a little bit more are you seeing any general changes in those trends and what they're choosing for options and upgrades? A little bit.
It varies by city.
My summary comment would be the people buying the homes today are buying them to live in them.
And as we went through the housing cycle it started becoming viewed as an investment.
So that approaching the peak people are buying the biggest house because they could not because they wanted it needed it and intended to live in it.
And today we're seeing more money spent on kitchen upgrades and things like that or room additions and structural things to cater to their preferences because they're going to live there.
In the past it was more about give me the biggest home and put more frills in.
It's more of a value-oriented play today for the consumer.
Your next question comes from the line of Alan Ratner from Zelman &amp; Associates.
LLC</strong> My first question on the SG&amp;A.
So if we take the 5% variable number that you gave and kind of back that out that assumes that the fixed component there is running kind of somewhere in the $39 million to $40 million per quarter range which I think is pretty flat with where you were through 2012 but obviously well down from where you were a few years ago.
So my question is I guess as a go forward and your community count ramps and understanding the 15% growth this year is -- should we be thinking about that number creeping higher as community count grows? Or is that something you think you can keep at the current levels for a while? Well our goal is to keep it at the current levels.
We are putting a lot of pressure on cost.
And like Jeff mentioned it's cost containment really right now is the game.
We don't think there's a lot of huge benefits to accrue to the company from trying to rip off more cost at this point in the cycle.
But we do want to enjoy the leverage benefits of an increasing revenue line and holding our cost as fixed as we can keep them.
So that is certainly the objective.
In certain cases we have made some strategic investments in expenses and resources.
We talked about it in a fair amount the last couple of quarters of last year where their growth drivers and things are very associated with construction and customer facing functions where we see stress in those functions we made to put some resources back and spend a little bit more money but only to improve the bottom line.
So we're being very cautious on it.
We are going to continue to keep a very heavy discipline on the SG&amp;A side.
Of course as revenues continue to tick up the way they have been it becomes more and more difficult to do it.
But we've been very successful over the last 3 or 4 quarters especially where we see nice revenue increases and been able to keep the cost down.
And Alan if you break it down a little more by component we can do significantly more volume with our management structure today.
And when I say management that would be a corporate or down at a division level.
Many of our divisions delivered 3 4 5x in units from where they are today with the same teams.
So if we ramp up community count you're not adding to your management fix you have the community fix tied to the model cost a superintendent things -- utility bills and the models.
But with the way our committees are performing as we open them the revenue is far outpacing and the margin is far outpacing any of the community specific overhead that you have to add.
So we're very solid.
As Jeff said in cost-containment there's a strategic element here or there where we incur a little bit of cost but we -- our plan here is to continue to push revenue in very incremental at best fixed cost increase.
LLC</strong> Great that's good to hear.
And my second question on the California orders this quarter year-over-year gain was very strong.
That was on a pretty easy comp.
And when I look at it sequentially your California orders were actually down about 15%.
And I think if you go back in your first quarter you generally see a little bit of a lift there.
So given the strengths you're seeing in that market is there something else going on there either kind of timing of getting communities open or maybe pushing price intentionally to slow that volume that would have caused that sequential drop in orders? Well you hit on a lot of it Alan.
The timing in California in and out of communities when you grand open.
We had a few grand openings late in the fourth quarter.
And then they carried over early in the first quarter.
But we've been applying our discipline of don't let the sales run too hot and keep pushing the price where you can without giving up any of your sales pace.
So we have a nice balance.
I wouldn't overreact to 1 quarter of comps because there's too many things that can influence.
And I am very bullish on California in general.
Right now I would say the housing markets here the recovery is far outpacing what we're seeing in most of the markets.
So there's no sales issue here.
It's how much money can we make.
And your final question comes from the line of Michael Roxland from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just really one question.
Wondering if you could just comment more on the land market and the continued competitive environment you're particularly seeing for land in California.
On this call on past calls it seems like you guys were able to acquire some really interesting properties.
And maybe you can just expound on how you're finding those opportunities? A lot of it has to do with what I referenced in our prepared comments.
When you have a land team on the ground for a couple of decades in the same market and you have a company that's headquartered here and knows all the nuances you do become the buyer of choice for land sellers.
And there were things that came to us just in the first quarter that were somewhat opportunistic but right in the wheelhouse of our product price and geography strategy.
And I keep raising it because as these markets continue their recovery I think you'll start to see differentiation among the builders where people have more expertise in one state than they do in another.
And the example I always use is while -- we have a stronghold in California we really like our business here and we have great land teams we're new to DC.
And there's others that can do in DC what we couldn't dream of doing because we don't have the expertise or the seasoning that we will have at some point in time in our land departments.
And I could name of bunch of other cities and every builder has a different profile.
But here in California we continue to see success in finding real opportunities to continue to acquire in very high demand very valuable location.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then just real quick.
Are there any other opportunities or region cities that you're particularly interested in expanding into at this point? No not really.
We're going to push the envelope in the cities that we're at -- that we're in.
And there isn't a city we're in today that doesn't have a lot of opportunity.
The California recovery has become strong enough.
And I've been and talking about it for the last probably 6 earnings calls but every city we're in has a similar recovery occurring where there's a desirable area with no inventory a lot of price movement upward and then the recovery will ripple out to the other areas adjacent and so on and so on.
So we're hard at it seeking growth opportunities in every one of the 33 cities we're in today.
Okay.
Well I guess that's it for now.
And once again I'd like to thank all of you for joining us this morning.
Have a great day and we look forward to talk to you again soon.
Thank you.
And this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Michelle and I will be your conference operator today.
And I would like to welcome everyone to the KB Home 2013 Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded and a live webcast is available on KB Home's website at kbhome.com.
The company will make a presentation and then open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] KB Home's discussion today may include forward-looking statements that reflect management's current views and expectations of market conditions future events and the company's business performance.
These statements are not guarantees of future results and the company does not undertake any obligation to update them.
Due to a number of factors outside of its control including those identified in the SEC filings the company's actual results could be materially different from those expressed and/or implied by the forward-looking statements.
A reconciliation of non-GAAP measures referenced during today's discussion to their most directly comparable GAAP measures can be found in the company's earning release issued earlier today and/or on the Investor Relations page of the company's website.
I will now turn the conference over to the company's Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Jeff Mezger.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you Michelle and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today for a review of our second quarter financial results.
With me this morning are Jeff Kaminski our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Bill Hollinger our Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer.
I'd like to start today's call with an overview of our substantially improved operating results during the quarter which illustrates the dramatic progress we are making in our business.
I'll then provide an update on the status of our 2 strategic priorities for the year: accelerating top line growth and enhancing profitability per unit.
Following this Jeff Kaminski will take you through the details of our financial results.
After which I will conclude our prepared comments with a few remarks about how we have positioned KB Home for even stronger results heading into 2014.
As always after the prepared remarks we will open the call up to your questions.
We are very pleased with the meaningful improvement we achieved across most of our financial and operational metrics in the second quarter.
Between our enhanced company performance and the continued advancement of a sustained housing recovery we are well positioned to achieve meaningful profits in both the third and fourth quarters leading to solid profits for this fiscal year and accelerating profits and growth going forward.
Some of the significant accomplishments during the quarter are: Revenues increased by 73% year-over-year to $524 million.
Our average selling price rose 25% to $290 000 our 12th consecutive quarter of year-over-year increases.
The primary driver of this increase was our ongoing land investment and product positioning strategy which is working successfully across all of our regions.
Of note we reported operating income of $8.7 million our fourth consecutive quarter of operating income and our first operating income reported for second quarter since 2006.
We dramatically improved our adjusted growth housing margin to 18.2% which represents over a 600-basis-point increase over last year's adjusted gross margin of 12.1% and an approximately 300-basis-point sequential increase compared to our first quarter of this year.
We lowered our SG&amp;A ratio by 760 basis points to 13.4% the lowest second quarter SG&amp;A ratio since 2006.
Our net order value of $640 million was up 27% from a year ago while net orders were up 6% consistent with the guidance we've provided at our Analyst Day.
We continue to fuel our growth with land and land development investment of $230 million.
For the first half of 2013 we invested $575 million in land and land development nearly triple our investment for the first 6 months of last year.
As a result we have increased our lot count owned and controlled to almost 53 000.
We continue to identify attractive investment opportunities across all of our regions that are aligned with our strategy and we have now again increased our estimated spend now planning to invest up to $1.2 billion for the year.
Finally even with the unusual charge which I will discuss in more detail in a moment we're basically breakeven for the quarter.
Excluding this charge we would have reported a profit of approximately $13 million.
These results taken together with a quarter-end backlog value of $827 million and our expectations for continued ASP growth additional margin expansion and further improvement in our SG&amp;A leverage are strong support for accelerating profits going forward.
Before discussing our strategic priorities for the year let me address the recent concerns many have raised regarding the recent uptick in mortgage rates and its potential impact on housing.
In my view there is no question that housing dynamics are significantly better than they were a year ago.
At the same time in my view we are still in the early innings of a recovery that is continuing to accelerate.
The positive factors underpinning the current housing recovery remain fully in place and will continue to drive favorable market fundamentals.
There is substantial pent-up demand driven by population growth job growth an increase in household formation and record affordability.
At the same time in most areas of the country there is a shortage of supply and monthly mortgage payments for a typical home are lower than rent; further reinforcing the appeal of homeownership.
Despite the recent rise in rates affordability is still at extraordinary levels and demand is significantly outpacing supply in every market we serve.
Anecdotally we are hearing from the sales floor that the uptick in rates has actually created an increased sense of urgency as buyers don't want to miss out on this incredible opportunity.
Having said all of this if you get past the pure economics of interest rates and payments I have always maintained that consumer confidence is far more important to home sales than interest rates are.
The desire to live in the American dream is strong and if a consumer feels good about their personal situation they will always work through any obstacles and find a way to become a homeowner.
With job growth accelerating and consumer confidence hitting a 5-year high last month I expect the housing recovery will continue with solid advance especially in the attractive submarkets that we serve.
Turning back to our results during the second quarter we recorded a $15.9 million charge for estimated repair costs associated with water intrusion-related issues affecting certain of our communities in Central and Southwest Florida.
The charge reflects the results of a progressive assessment of these issues over the past several months and we believe it encompasses the full scope and the likely overall cost of the repair effort.
We believe this charge puts this matter behind us financially.
We became aware in the latter part of 2012 that certain homes in these Florida communities both attached and detached have not been built to our standards and required repair.
The problems involved framing stucco roofing and in some instances sealant on homes that were delivered to our customers in some instances almost 10 years ago and which resulted in more recent water intrusion-related issues.
An important fact in this situation is that we are pursuing recoveries from various sources including our subcontractors and their insurers.
Because we rely on our trade partners to build our homes we also expect them to stand behind the work they do and to respond when problems arise.
We fully intend to hold all responsible trade partners accountable for defective construction or materials and we are aggressively and diligently taking action including litigation to recover the cost of the repairs.
Although the scope and scale of these issues in the affected communities is quite unusual our response to them reflects our commitment to customer service and to taking care of our homeowners.
Jeff will provide more details on this topic later during the call.
Let me reiterate that even with this unusual charge which we feel puts the financial impact of this issue behind us we remain on track to achieve solid profits for the year.
One of the primary reasons for our improved financial performance is the land investment and product repositioning we have been executing for the past few years.
This strategy of repositioning into more desirable submarkets and featuring larger homes where demand is strong and price points are higher is working across our entire system.
This initiative has now achieved a powerful combination of significant growth in our average selling price and higher gross margins while maintaining one of the leading sales rates per community in the industry.
The net result has been a year-over-year increase in average selling price of 25% to $290 000; an advance that is well above market averages.
At the same time we remain committed to serving our core first-time and first move-up homebuyers.
Even at this higher price in the quarter first-time homebuyers still represented approximately 60% of the homes we delivered.
We've been highlighting the strategy on these calls over the last 2 years and it's gratifying to now see the results starting to play out.
I am really proud of the progress we have made with this effort.
We're a different company today with a much more dynamic submarket and community mix as compared to just a few years ago.
Additionally we have a backlog value in place that supports our expectation for continued increases in average selling price and higher gross margins going forward.
As I outlined on last quarter's call and as we reviewed in detail at our recent Analyst Day we have 2 strategic priorities for 2013: accelerating top line growth and enhancing profit per unit.
I'd like to again highlight these initiatives at a high level as they both provide significant upside to our results.
I will start with accelerating top line growth where our primary objective is to continue to gain share in each of our 33 served markets.
We have significant upside in our geographic footprint and don't need to expand in the new markets to achieve exponential growth rates.
To give you some perspective in our peak year of 2006 we delivered more than 28 000 homes out of this current footprint.
As I mentioned at the opening of today's call we are pleased with the investments we made in the first half of the year.
While it takes time for all of these investments to convert to actively selling communities we remain on track to open more than 120 new communities this year and have the expectation for continued community count expansion in 2014.
We have been finding attractive investment opportunities across our markets and as a result we're planning to invest up to $1.2 billion in 2013.
Our second strategic priority is to drive enhanced profitability per unit.
KBnxt and its Built to Order approach provide multiple levers to enhance profit per unit and we're diligently utilizing all of them.
In a market that is normalizing our Built to Order approach provides incremental revenue opportunities that are simply not available with a one-size-fits-all Speculative Start approach.
When the consumer is able to select their home and their lot of choice you can maximize the full value of premiums they are willing to pay such as lot premiums elevation premiums and premiums for structural options.
We think there is real opportunity to capture more of these premiums especially in the higher-income submarkets we are now serving.
In addition to these types of premiums we have additional opportunities for revenue enhancements in our KB Home design studios.
When it comes to offering consumers ultimate choice in value our studios have always been a strong driver of sales.
Today's consumers who are buying with the intent of living in their homes for a longer timeframe are leveraging their buying power to design the home of their dreams.
Our consumer surveys and local market knowledge continue to help us find additional options that we can offer in our studios that appeal to today's buyers.
In Southern California for example buyers are attracted to an outdoor lifestyle and are spending more in this area.
In response to this trend in some of our higher-priced coastal communities we are now offering fully retractable glass walls that open to the outside and landscape and hard-scape packages that maximize their outdoor living space.
In these examples we have seen some buyers spend more than $200 000 in the Studio truly personalizing their home for their lifestyle.
This is a great example of how we can use the Studio to drive more revenue and profit per unit.
At the same time our Studios are also a great place to educate consumers on home buying home features and the benefits of homeownership.
We utilize the Studios and our proprietary Energy Performance guide to demonstrate the material financial benefit of our industry-leading energy-efficient construction which can result in estimated monthly savings of as much as $200 on utility bills.
We also offer additional energy options in our Studio that can lower utility bills even further all the way down to a net-0 home if that is the buyer's preference.
As consumer trends emerge in our Studios we continue to quickly share best practices across our system through our common business model.
With our KBnxt Built to Order approach I feel we have significant upside profit opportunity in this area.
While continuing to seek out revenue enhancements we're also focused on our cost.
Our business model drives efficiencies through operational excellence and provides many opportunities to reduce cost through scale.
Relative to our cost of construction our healthier backlog is enabling us to leverage the benefit of even flow production.
And with standardized product lines we're working to get cost reductions through our increasing volume.
Relative to overhead our primary focus is containing cost at these levels while utilizing the tools and processes in our business model to grow our top line.
As our improvement in SG&amp;A this quarter clearly illustrates there is significant opportunity through continuing to unlock the spring coil in our growth platform.
Finally our high-performing mortgage partner Nationstar is enabling us to run a more predictable and successful Built to Order business by providing reliable loan approvals high levels of customer satisfaction and faster turns on closing.
Nationstar gained traction during the quarter continued to decrease their time from completion of the home to closing and was a major contributor to our strong closing performance.
We expect continued improvement as our relationship matures.
By year end we also expect our Home Community Mortgage joint venture with Nationstar to be operational which should provide a new earnings stream in the future.
As to sales we have shared with you on previous calls that we remain committed to optimizing the return on each asset through carefully balancing the maximum price and targeted sales pace at each community.
Our current absorption rates support our 2013 revenue goals.
Having said that we are still working to improve our sales rates in particular in those communities that are performing below their target.
In the short run we expect sales value growth will continue to significantly outpace unit growth.
As our community count continues to grow our strong sales pace per community will enable us to generate even more robust sales value growth.
In the meantime the revenue and profit growth from this strategy is driving meaningful results for our business.
To summarize as we continue to enhance the execution on our strategic initiative for 2013 we see a very bright future ahead.
Our backlog supports our accelerating revenue and profit trajectory for the remainder of this year.
We expect to see continued improvements in ASP higher gross margin and a lower SG&amp;A ratio along with sustained growth in community count.
Through our efforts we have momentum a strategic growth platform in place and with a housing recovery that is still in the early innings we expect to not only achieve our growth and profit targets for the year but also to continue our earnings growth and momentum into 2014 and beyond.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jeff Kaminski who will offer the specific details on our margins and overall financials in the quarter.
Jeff? Thank you Jeff.
And good morning everyone.
We are once again pleased with the tremendous progress we have made in many areas across our operations as reflected in the second quarter financial results.
Most of our financial metrics for the quarter were considerably better on both the sequential and year-over-year basis.
At the same time and more importantly we remain committed to further improvements as we lead the company to full year profitability in 2013 as well as drive enhanced profitability and accelerated growth for fiscal 2014 and beyond.
For the second quarter 2013 we narrowed our net loss by $21.1 million or $0.27 per share as compared to the second quarter of the prior year.
Higher revenues combined with an expansion in our housing gross profit margin and an improved SG&amp;A expense ratio drove the better bottom line results which approached breakeven.
Second quarter total revenues increased 73% over the same period a year ago to $524 million.
During the quarter our backlog conversion ratio improved to 65% helped by the continuous performance improvement of Nationstar as Jeff mentioned earlier.
Our West Coast region once again accounted for the majority of the revenue increase with revenues in the region up nearly $141 million or 106% from the second quarter of 2012.
Year-over-year revenue improvements in the Southwest Southeast and Central regions were 69% 54% and 37% respectively.
We believe the continued combination of increased average selling price and higher deliveries in the third and fourth quarters of this year will drive our total revenue for 2013 to the range of $2.1 billion to $2.2 billion.
The value of net orders generated and our net order pace during the second quarter as well as our quarter-end backlog strongly support this revenue forecast.
Our overall average selling price for homes delivered during the second quarter was approximately $290 000.
The strategic strength and favorable market position of the operations in our West Coast region were once again a tailwind for our consolidated performance during the quarter.
While average selling prices were higher in all 4 regions with year-over-year increases ranging from 15% to 26% the shift in mix towards a higher proportion of deliveries from our West Coast region which had an ASP of over $460 000 for the quarter accounted for an incremental 7 percentage points of the overall average selling price increase.
As a result of the continued success of our land investment and community management strategies we expect our overall average selling price to continue to trend higher with both year-over-year and sequential improvements for the remaining quarters of the year.
We now anticipate that our ASP for the full 2013 fiscal year will be in the range of $285 000 to $290 000 as compared to $246 500 for 2012.
Enhancing profit per unit by continuously improving our housing gross profit margin is one of our key priorities and the second quarter marked another quarter of steady progress.
On an as-reported basis our second quarter housing gross profit margin was 15.1% as compared to 15.8% in the same quarter of 2012.
However the current quarter gross margin included the $15.9 million charge we took in Florida as well as a land option abandonment of approximately $300 000.
Excluding these items the current quarter adjusted gross profit margin was 18.2%.
Adding to Jeff's earlier comments on the charge I want to point out that we initiated an intensive on-the-ground investigation relating to this item in an effort to accomplish 3 things: to identify the scope of the issues; to fully understand the causes; and to address them as quickly and completely as possible for our home buyers.
While the assessment process has been unfolding since the fourth quarter of 2012 and has been somewhat slower than we had initially hoped we believe we now have a clear path to resolution.
The unusual charge we recognized in the second quarter includes our estimate of cost associated with homes that have already been identified as having issues as well as potentially affected homes that have not yet been identified.
Prior to this quarter we had been unable to estimate the number of homes not yet identified and the repair costs associated with those homes.
That being said repairs will continue for some time and we will of course continue to assess and reassess our reserves each quarter under our normal process.
Nonetheless we believe this charge represents the culmination and conclusion of this issue from a financial perspective.
More information about this subject will be included in our Form 10-Q that we will file in the next couple of weeks.
Now back to our margin discussion.
In the second quarter 2012 the housing gross profit margin included favorable warranty adjustments and insurance recoveries partially offset by inventory impairment charges.
Excluding the $11.2 million net favorable impact of these items the adjusted housing gross profit margin was 12.1% in 2012.
On an adjusted basis we realized an impressive year-over-year improvement of more than 600 basis points in our gross profit margin as well as a meaningful and sequential increase as compared to our first quarter.
The main drivers of our strong margin improvement included a higher mix of housing revenues from our West Coast region our actions to optimize pricing greater operating efficiencies and the rotation to higher-performing land positions as we continue to open new communities and close out older ones.
For the remainder of the year we expect to see continued year-over-year and sequential improvement in our quarterly housing gross profit margin.
To complement our efforts in growing our top line and expanding our gross margin we remain disciplined in controlling our overhead costs.
We continue to be well positioned to leverage our strategic growth platform as we ramp up delivery volumes driving further enhancements to our bottom line profit performance.
Our selling general and administrative expenses for the quarter were $70 million or 13.4% of housing revenue.
This percentage represented the lowest second quarter level since 2006 and a substantial improvement as compared to the 21% ratio for the same period of the prior year.
Our SG&amp;A expense in the second quarter of 2012 included the charge for a legal judgment that we are appealing.
For the 6 months of 2013 -- the first 6 months -- we increased our year-over-year housing revenues by over $370 million while holding our SG&amp;A expense increase to less than $15 million.
As we have discussed we believe we have continued upside from operating leverage opportunities and we expect further improvement in our overall SG&amp;A expense ratio as we continue to contain costs while growing our quarterly housing revenues through the remainder of the fiscal year.
Substantial improvement in our second quarter adjusted housing gross profit margin which was offset by the unusual charge and a reduction in our SG&amp;A expense ratio drove nearly 700 basis points of improvement in our year-over-year operating income margin for the quarter.
We reported $8.7 million of operating income in Q2 of 2013 as compared to an operating loss of $15.5 million in the same period in 2012.
As with other performance metrics we expect to realize continued year-over-year improvement as well as better sequential comparisons in our operating income margin for the remainder of 2013.
Turning now to our community count we opened 37 new communities during the second quarter and closed out of 23.
The average for the second quarter was 178 open communities as compared to an average of 183 communities for the same period of the prior year.
Despite the 3% decline in our quarterly average community count our net orders were up 6% year-over-year.
Our sales absorption rate for the quarter was just over 12 net orders per community an increase of 8.5%; as compared to net orders per community of just over 11 during the second quarter of 2012.
This improvement reflects the positive effects of our community repositioning as we opened 81 new communities over the past 4 quarters partially offset by our moderation of sales pace as we continued to focus on margin improvement and maximizing the value of our land assets.
Our plan for the end of 2013 is to accelerate our community count growth and to meet our sales pace to improve gross margins while maintaining one of the highest sales rates per community in the industry.
Our strategy is to generate sales and backlog values high enough to achieve our current year revenue targets and open the new communities required to support our future revenue growth expectations.
We will continue to place a much lower emphasis on unit sales comparisons while we balance pace and price and focus on driving top line revenue improving margins and maximizing the value realized from our open communities.
Strategic land investment is critical to expanding our community count and growing our top line and we intend to continue to aggressively invest in attractive land assets.
As we are continuing to find solid opportunities that align with our strategy we now expect as Jeff referenced earlier that our total investment for the 2013 fiscal year will range from $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion.
We remain on track to increase our fourth quarter community count in the range of 15% compared to the prior year as we continue to convert our land acquisition development activities into open communities.
We still plan to open a total of more than 120 new communities during the fiscal year.
We used net cash of $56.6 million from operating activities during the second quarter as compared to $19.7 million of cash provided for the same period of 2012.
However excluding cash used for land acquisition and development activity from both periods we generated $173 million of operating cash during the second quarter 2013; an improvement of more than $70 million or 68% as compared to the $103 million generated in the same period of last year.
Before I wrap up my comments 1 accounting housekeeping item.
Our diluted EPS calculation for the quarter utilized a share count of 83.6 million shares outstanding.
As we expect to generate net income in the third and fourth quarters we will need to include the impact of our convertible senior notes and stock awards in the calculation to the extent they are dilutive.
Therefore for the remaining quarters of the fiscal year we believe the share count for the calculation to be in the range of $95 million.
In conclusion while we were disappointed with the unusual charge that we recorded in the quarter virtually all of the underlying operating and financial metrics reflected significant improvement as compared to the second quarter of 2012 and the first quarter 2013.
These favorable trends bode well for a potential to deliver strong performance through the end of 2013 and beyond.
Now I will turn the call back over to Jeff Mezger for some final remarks.
Thanks Jeff.
Before I make my concluding comments let me first take a moment to thank our dedicated team of KB Home employees who do the heavy lifting every day that enables us to maximize shareholder value and drive our business forward.
It's through their efforts that we elevated our business to a new level in the second quarter delivering significant year-over-year improvements across most of our financial and operational metrics.
We grew our revenue an impressive 73% increased our ASP by 25% improved our adjusted gross margin by 610 basis points and reduced our SG&amp;A ratio by 760 basis points.
As pleased as we are with our accomplishments during the quarter we believe we can do even better going forward.
We are aggressively pursuing our growth targets and now expect to invest up to $1.2 billion this year.
If over the balance of the year we identify opportunities that exceed this number we have the confidence and ability to invest further.
In my experience as markets normalize differentiated performance levels among the peer group will emerge at a regional or local market level and success will be driven by a homebuilder's track record and expertise in each of its served markets.
We're the biggest builder in California and we see tremendous upside in our home state.
California currently accounts for more than 50% of revenues and is the primary area for our land investment strategy.
Our leading presence long-standing experience strong and well-recognized brand and network of relationships in the state make us a preferred land buyer and enable us to grow share in the most coveted and land-constrained submarkets.
The Golden State is the largest and strongest housing market in the country with solid job growth and record-low inventory that is being pursued by an enormous and growing population.
KB Home is the leader in this market and we are well positioned to drive significant results as this market continues to rebound from the early stages of recovery.
The other very large market opportunity for us is Texas where strong job growth and an expanding economy offer tremendous upside in an area where we have historically done well.
We're quickly growing share in both states at this time and I expect them to continue to be the bookends of our growth strategy.
Having specifically called out these 2 significant regions for our company I'd also like to reiterate that our strategy is working everywhere and that we are investing across our systems.
Our actions over the last few years to reposition the company combined with a rapidly accelerating housing recovery give us confidence that the best is yet to come.
We expect to deliver meaningful profits for both the third and fourth quarters a solid profit for the full fiscal year and anticipate accelerating our results in 2014.
We're excited about our future and look forward to sharing our progress with you as you continue on our journey back to normalized profit levels.
With that we'll open up the call to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> On that topic my first question: When you discussed your expectation for further improvement in the back half of the year recognizing that you haven't given specific guidance but you did have a pretty material improvement obviously sequentially in year-over-year in this current quarter.
Given the pricing trends that you've been able to realize and the fact that we are still off from mid-cycle 18% -- I'm sorry 19% 20% or better that you saw in late '90s time period when could we expect to get back to that 20% or better type of level? Would it be in the next couple of quarters? Or would that be more of a fiscal '14 event? As you already said Mike we haven't given guidance on where we think our margins are headed.
Having said that we did share that we expect continued sequential growth in our gross margins.
But we have a lot of things in play many of which I shared in my comments and we shared at the Investor Day relative to opportunities in the Studio and the premiums and our Built to Order model.
We also have a nice mix of product rotation as we open up new communities and close out older ones.
So I can't give you the date when we'll hit the 20% you've referenced but we're continuing to actually sequentially improve and at this time we're already north of 18%.
So we've moved pretty significantly in the last year.
I'm not saying we'll -- you'll see that kind of significance going forward but we think we'll continue to improve.
And at some point we'll get there.
Research Division</strong> No I mean -- I appreciate that and certainly to be able to hold onto a 300-plus sequential improvement is impressive in itself.
And certainly the outlook for expansion is encouraging.
The second question just on the ASP guidance of $285 000 to $290 000 for the year; that kind of implies more of a flattish outlook for the back half.
I know you said that ASP should improve throughout the rest of the year.
But I would think the numbers -- the way we're looking at them -- would only bear just a very modest sequential improvement for here.
So I was wondering if you could elaborate on that a little bit if our math is correct.
And if there's some mix shift items going on? Because certainly as you mentioned before you do have positive pricing momentum and everything else equal that would imply perhaps a more material improvement in the back half.
Sure Mike.
Yes I can respond to that.
The -- during the quarter we had a nice mix shift.
It helped us about 7 percentage points actually the mix shift to the West.
So we're using a little bit of caution on our forward forecasting of where those delivery numbers will be and where the revenue will come from in the third and fourth quarter.
And that is moderating I'd say the pace of improvement but nonetheless we still see sequential improvement both in the third and in the fourth quarter of this year.
We've had some pretty high comps the last 2 quarters.
The first quarter is up 24%.
Of course this more recent quarter is up 25%.
Full year last year is up about 10%.
So we're enjoying the increases.
The strategy is working continues to work.
We're seeing everything ranging from increasing average square footage in our communities to community placements to regional shift helping us.
But we stand by the guidance for the full year of $285 000 to $290 000 for ASP.
Your next question comes from Adam Rudiger from Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I had a question about your product repositioning.
This is actually Joey on for Adam.
How far do you think you are in your product repositioning strategy? And if you're halfway there or 3/4 of the way there how much longer -- how many more quarters until you kind of get to your goal? Joey that's an interesting question because we really haven't looked at it that way.
Certainly the new communities we're opening are aligned with our strategy and are successful for the most part.
And until we get to our maximum market potential in our 33 markets I would say that we're -- we have a lot of upside still.
But it's a nice combination as we close 1 of our older communities and open a new one.
And we think through the things we've already identified in this call we'll continue to have a positive impact from all these initiatives for some time going forward.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And a question on kind of current trends in June.
If you could help us with kind of what you're hearing from the field -- real-time feedback from your communities on what's been going on with recent trends and traffic in orders -- that would be really helpful.
Right.
We typically don't give a lot of detail on intra-quarter.
But I can tell you as far as traffic trends it's going to be holding up.
I think with all the noise that you're reading in the media and the press and everything else on interest rates and what it's doing in my opinion at least in the short term I think it's going to create more urgency; and buyers that want to get to the table and get to the closing table quicker.
We're seeing it in a lot of anecdotal I guess stories from the field at this point and we're really not seeing any negative impact so far from the headlines.
Your next question comes from Bob Wetenhall from Zelman -- I'm sorry from RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> What a quarter.
Really delivering too on what you guys said at the Investor Day about Going on Offense and that's showing up in the numbers.
I just wanted to understand in your guidance of top line.
How do you see new -- how do you see the pace of orders during the balance of the year unfolding? Is it more towards like high single-digits? Is that realistic to use? Bob again we don't typically guide order comps going forward.
A lot of it depends on how many communities open and how many communities close out.
Sales and demand are strong and -- but we expect community count growth so that I would suggest if you just hold your order track you'll have positive sales comp.
And we're continuing to work on these communities we have that are not hitting their sales targets.
So we're trying to push our order growth per community a little bit and we are trying to open more communities.
We keep reiterating whatever that unit comp is it is but we expect continued exponential increases at sales value just like we did in the second quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And I -- just to add to that a little bit Bob just like we messaged during the script.
I mean we're really focused on margin improvement and supporting our revenue targets.
So to the extent we're seeing nice improvement in pricing and in our average selling price for multiple factors mainly strategic and things that we've done that's providing the revenue juice that we need to hit our targets for the year and we're going to continue to emphasize that particularly seeing such nice improvement in the margins that we've not only seen in the actual results but in our backlog numbers.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just keying off your comment about the huge focus on expanding margins and keeping them 600 basis points better on the gross -- which is really a pretty important accomplishment -- could you give us some insight on why ASPs particularly in California are so strong and robust? I think you said added 7% overall ASPs with a high 400s number.
What are you seeing in the California market? And is it just outpacing other regions by that much of a force? And also do you expect to continue? Bob if you look specific to Q2 we had a great quarter in California and it was a real driver in our results.
It actually tilted to a little stronger mix than it had been and as Jeff shared it was 7% of the ASP increase with the regional mix.
In my comments I shared I think California is the best housing market in the country.
The coastal areas are incredibly strong and they continue to push price up.
It is now rippling inland and I've been sharing that trend for over a year.
And you have to drive around the area to appreciate how strong demand is how many people are looking to buy a home and there's just no supply.
So we're finding communities where there's great demand.
We're positioning with bigger homes.
And the consumer is responding favorably.
You have millions and millions of people pursuing 25 000 or 30 000 housing starts a year with -- and there's no supply.
So prices are continuing to move quickly.
You're seeing it in the headlines.
We're opening communities that are performing very well and you don't have any inventory yet.
So we're in this economic recovery in the state that's still early yet you've already got these incredible dynamics at play.
And I think that will continue for a while.
And you'll continue to see our California presence grow.
But that's just one of the bookends.
We think we'll see -- though not at this level because it's such a strong demand today -- you'll continue to see the similar trends in our other regions as well.
Your next question comes from Ivy Zelman from Zelman &amp; Associates.
LLC</strong> Hey guys it's Alan on for Ivy.
Jeff just in terms of your backlog given your presale model and that you generally sell very few specs I was hoping you might give us a little bit of insight into the percentage of your backlog where they have already locked in their mortgage rates.
And kind of adding on to that any anecdotal commentary you could provide in terms of what your salespeople are doing to reach out to people in backlog and assure them as far as there is an increase in rates? Any color you could provide there would be helpful as well.
Okay.
We leave it up to our consumer to lock the rate.
We're not really influencing that.
And most of them like to have confidence when we start the home that they have a rate in place that they'll close with.
So for the most part and this has been the case for years our consumer will lock to cover through delivery at some point whether it's the start -- and in some cases with home lenders you have to pay a little fee to lock it if it's 3 or 4 months out.
In a little shorter window you can lock it for free and they do.
And to no surprise the consumers understand when rates are moving.
So they track it daily and they'll make their call on whether to lock at that point or not.
And so in our backlog we manage to it and it's a motivator actually to close.
If people have a rate lock that's expired and their home's done and something has to happen to get their approval or their documentation they'll move faster and want to preserve and protect their rate.
And as we've looked at it here in particular in the submarkets we're in and the price points we're playing at our consumer's not that impacted on the ratio side the income-to-debt -- it is more of a credit challenge for us.
So if rates tick up a little and payments tick up a little.
It's really not moving the consumer that much in terms of their payment and their ability to qualify for that payment.
Our bigger challenge is still underwriting the credit and if that unlocks you'd see incredible demand.
LLC</strong> And I guess on that thing.
We heard from Lennar earlier this week that they've seen some modest improvement on credit overlays and a little bit of loosening from that standpoint.
Is that something similar to you're seeing on the credit front? Any improvement? Well we're certainly seeing that anecdotally in the media and there's reports of it.
We're probably seeing some incremental.
As I'd say that it is nowhere near more normal underwriting standards today even relative to the government standards that are out there that they -- the mortgage companies can underwrite to.
And it's a classic push and pull where through a downturn underwriting tightens up.
There's been jokes running around for a few years that mortgage companies never make a bad loan at the bottom of a cycle which is when it's the best risk because prices are running up.
And markets are firming.
If the economy continues to expand like it is I think you'll see the banks loosen up.
And if sort of rates go up a little bit but underwriting loosens up a bit I think you'll see similar demand if not more.
That's why we're not troubled by a little uptick in interest rates right now.
Your next question comes from Dan Oppenheim from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> You're talking about the land investment taking place in California and also about the benefit of the community in coastal California in terms of the -- what people are paying for options and the doors opening up and such.
As you think about sort of the land spending which would be a few years out how much of that is now being focused a bit more inland? I was thinking about the recovery as it broadens across all of the state into more areas versus coastal.
How are you thinking about the investment there? I don't know that we break it out Dan between a coastal region and an inland region.
We break it up Southern Cal versus Northern Cal.
And it's obviously a larger dollar-per-lot play in the more expensive coastal region than it is inland.
But as these markets recover and we track inventory and utilize our surveys there's inland areas that are performing well that we're investing in heavily.
And in -- on the coast it's a land constraint.
You have to really mine it and get ahead of the curve and you'll take everyone you can get.
So it's -- both sides are working well.
So we're encouraging investment throughout the state not trying to balance it just in the coast today.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then in terms of the comments on the options what are you seeing in terms of just with the spending on -- in the design centers and options overall? And so what has that ended up making in terms of difference to the margins in the homes? Well our dollar spend in the Studios per sale does continue to track up.
It's not huge.
It's not the main driver in our ASP increase.
In the past call or even at our investor day I shared that I think over time there's a point or 2 of margin between all these premiums we talked about things we can do on the Studio frequency pricing leveraging our best practices.
That certainly isn't in our numbers today.
That's what we would hope to get someday.
And it will be a little bit here and a little bit there.
But with today's consumer where they intend to stay in their home longer and they're buying it as a residence not just an investment or something to flip in a year or 2 they're making it their home.
And they're spending on whatever is of value to them.
I think you'll see that trend continue for a while.
The next question comes from Alex Barrón from Housing Research Center.
LLC</strong> I wanted to ask if you can comment on your process of managing the sales pace versus the price increases? And I guess now that we've seen the -- that move in rates in the last few weeks whether that's impacting your ability to continue to raise prices? Well Alex it -- that you may have -- I think we presented this or walked through it at our Investor Day which I know you were at.
But every community has a targeted balance of margin and pace.
We say we want to optimize the return on the asset and it's turn your inventory and maximize your margin at the same time.
And there's a different balance.
And on a weekly basis we will review every community for: That week's results in a 4-week track; and what's the margin in backlog; and where's your price at; and we will make decisions each week to ensure a balance.
And if a division for a community is ahead of their goal they'll raise price.
If it's behind in their goal they won't raise price.
They're not going to cut price but we will come up with different ways to try and stimulate sales to get it back on the goal.
And it's a fairly intensive review that actually starts with participation here in Westwood from senior management and goes all the way down through to the sales manager.
So it's manage your inventory on a weekly basis.
And as I shared in the prepared comments rates have ticked up.
We haven't seen it impact sales.
I don't think they'd moved enough to offset all of the housing fundamentals that are in place today.
So we're continuing to run the business like we did a month ago or 6 months ago at this time.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And as far as the community count in California I guess that's probably been whether it's been more challenging to keep up with the demand because it seems like buyers or communities are closing out faster than your ability to open them.
So do you think we've reached the point where the community count will start trending up? Or do you think we'll -- that will take another quarter or 2 from here? Well like we've been guiding Alex we did expect the community count increase to be really back-end loaded this year.
We're talking about 15% up in the fourth quarter.
The trend is similar in California.
We're working hard to acquire land on a year-to-date basis.
64% of our spend between land acquisition and development was here in our West Coast region.
So we are really aggressively looking and as Jeff mentioned earlier it's throughout the state and the best submarkets whether they be inland or coastal.
So we do believe that we can expand community count not only across the company but here in the West Coast region this year.
Your next question comes from Jack Micenko from SIG.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Trying to look at the back half and some of the embedded opportunities you talked about: West sales Southwest sales down percentage basis; ASP is up so definitely the pace/price offset makes sense there.
With the community count growth in the back end and kind of the flattish ASP guidance does that mean that the centrums in the other areas that haven't seen as much ASP increase will see that? I'm just trying to get some sense of where the mix shift will take place on a more pronounced basis in the back half given that the West has been -- and the Southwest have been real price leaders in the last couple of quarters.
Jack I'll let Jeff give you the percentages by region.
In the prepared comments we shared that every region's price was up.
And every region's price is up more than that market's average.
And it reinforces that our strategy is working.
And as we've also already shared if your mix shifted 1 or 2 points to California versus 1 or 2 points to Houston it can move your ASP big time because a home in Houston could be $180 000 or $230 000 and a home in California could be $800 000 or $900 000.
That's why at our current scale your ASP can move around a bit on a little bit of a mix shift.
So we're not -- this guidance is not suggesting that pricing has stopped or that markets have changed or anything like that.
It's where -- the improvement relative to whatever happens with a little bit of mix shift over the next quarter or 2.
But this trajectory is firmly in place by region right now.
Want to share the...
Sure yes.
The -- I think Jeff said it right.
I mean the trend is there and we believe the trend will continue.
We had a 24% improvement in sales value year-over-year in our West Coast region.
So although the units were more or less flat year-over-year we still saw a 24% value jump.
Our lowest ASP increase of any of the regions I think was 15%.
So we're seeing nice improvement across the business and some of those numbers even at -- with our lowest region -- are better than we're seeing across the industry with some of the peers.
So we've been pretty pleased with the progress we've made and with the land repositioning and the strategic moves on our product and community placement throughout the business.
So we're trying to be a little bit cautious I guess with the rest of the year on the ASP estimate.
We do have some upside potential we believe and we'll continue with the same strategy.
We like the results we've seen.
We plan to continue with the same strategy and that's what we're trying to emphasize during the prepared remarks.
You're not seeing a shift in strategy from us just continued same strategy and hopefully continued very positive results.
LLLP Research Division</strong> And then just trying to make -- trying to figure out if a mix may be more pronounced outside of the West is all I was sort of thinking there.
On the mortgage side you talked about days to close improving and the new home community business coming online.
Can you throw out some numbers in terms of what that closing time did? What the can rate was? And then are you looking in the new partnership to do non-capture rate business third-party origination as well? Jack I can't speak to the strategy with the venture because we didn't get into too much detail on this call.
I shared it's -- we're still in the process of getting the approvals from the agencies and we still feel we're on track to have it up and running by the end of the year.
As we shared on the last call or at our analyst day it's kind of a seamless transition here in that the team's already in place.
They're already working on our business.
Our divisions are well linked and communicating with Nationstar's people.
And the venture when it's created the Nationstar people would become employees of that venture.
And through that we'll manage it just like we -- any other mortgage operation would be managed and we expect it to -- as the venture is formed you have further alignment between the teams.
I think you'll continue to see better execution as these relationships mature.
And over time I think we can see profits come out of the venture just like we did in the past with our previous venture.
Right as far as some of the specific numbers I believe the final to close cycle time for Nationstar came down 3 days.
The can rate for the quarter was about 27%; about the same as last year's second quarter which was about 26%.
And I think that covers everything else you asked.
Your next question comes from Michael Roxland from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just want to go through the rates again.
If rates hold at these levels or even rise from here how do think about your pricing strategy? I mean are you willing to continue with the strategy of slowing down the pace through price? Just trying to help us frame how are you thinking about rising rates or even rates that are maintained at these elevated levels relative to where they were about 4 or 6 weeks ago? Yes.
Well it's very interesting Michael because a lot of people are thinking elevated levels and what's happened -- rates are still at incredibly attractive levels.
And while I think it came off from the peak affordability levels are like the second best in the history of tracking affordability.
So are payments going up with the rate increase? Yes.
Is it going up enough to slow down all the underpinnings right now? No.
And to us if you tie that to our price and pace strategy whether it's a good market or a bad we're going to have a strategy in place to optimize that asset.
And if demand were to soften you'll do things to stimulate the sales pace to ensure that you hit your target to move through the asset.
But it's not something we're expecting.
And if it does happen another thing that's good for us in our business model if this trend of the consumer buying a bigger home in these more affluent areas if they selected a 3 000-foot home and their purchasing power gets cramped a little bit by an interest rate they'll go by the 2 800-foot home instead.
They'll still going to buy a home.
They want a home.
So we can flex with this thing and we're not troubled with the rates today.
There's incredible demand outpacing supply in all of our markets right now.
If it were to hit a point at some time where rates were to crimp the demand then we'll react to that.
But we have a lot of different ways to be fluid and flex with whatever market dynamics we have and right now they're very strong.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Last question.
You continue to target the more creditworthy homebuyer and improving the over-all mix and as your land base for those buyers diminishes both as you sell out of communities -- I know there's a given diminishing land availability for prime land -- can you help us think about your strategy and how you continue to plan to serve that segment? Absolutely.
Right now we're growing our position in those areas and investing heavily as we shared with our prepared comments.
So one of the beauties of the land-constrained markets we're operating in is that they're also where our best land teams are on the ground.
And we're able to get deals done whether it's California or in Texas.
We're getting deals done that others may scratch their head at because they don't have the relationship or the entitlement expertise or the understanding of the market.
And not only is the strategy working I think the fact that we grew our lot count owned and controlled by 8 000 this quarter tells you that we're continuing to find real opportunity even in these more desirable submarkets.
If they run out of lots that demand gets pushed to an adjacent submarket.
So this isn't something that will go away because the zip code runs out of lots.
It will go to a neighboring zip code.
It just won't go to a zip code 20 or 30 miles away right now.
And your final question for today comes from David Goldberg from UBS.
Research Division</strong> I want to ask a bit of a theoretical question.
I know we've hit on rates quite a bit and Jeff I agree with the assessment that rates really aren't crimping buyers today and it's certainly not going to slow down the upturn at this point.
But I guess what I want to think about is in your experience as you look out and you look at the Studio business and you look at when affordability gets constrained is that a place where buyers change their preferences? So if we think about moving to somebody's peripheral areas in the future -- I know it's not a 2013 I know or even a 2014 story -- but as you look into the future do you think we're going to see if rates come up and affordability gets less attractive or I want to think about it more constrained do you think buyers are going to take less -- have less take from the Studio? Well this is theoretical David.
You and I have these debates over time but the -- you're only telling part of the story.
If rates go up it's because the economy is better for the most part.
I mean they may move up a little bit here and there with some of these other influences.
But if rates go up it's because price inflation's occurring and that inflation's incurring because there's job growth.
And if there's job growth there's a better economy.
So if rates go up I think you'll see it's the result of a better economy and you'll still have strong demand.
If the economy is better I think you'll see underwriting loosen up.
And I've shared on this call now qualifying from an income perspective and not the issue for a lot of the first-time buyers in particular today.
They've been blocked out because the mortgage companies have elected to really tighten up on their underwriting until there's clarity on the direction of things.
So if you unlock all that demand and rates go up a little bit you're going to see even more demand than we have here today.
And underneath all that you have no supply large demographics a lot of demand and affordability that's still at incredible levels.
And when I say the strategy is working it's not just in Orange County for $800 million to $1 million.
It's out in the Inland Empire for $400 000 or $500 000; and it's a Texas at $180 000; and it it's in Florida at $180 000 or $200 000.
And with our business model if they get maxed on their payment they have the choice of a different-sized home which a lot of them will do.
Or instead of the granite they'll take the extra bedroom.
Or instead of the -- whatever a separate tub and shower they'll take a kitchen option for a bigger kitchen.
And that's why our business model works so well because we can move with the trends of the consumer the demands of the consumer the needs and continue to meet their lifestyle.
I just said a mouthful.
But there's a lot of things that play here and they're -- there's a lot of push and pull and offsetting things.
But underneath it there's the underpinnings of a real recovery going on that I think is going to go on for some time.
So we'll continue to navigate and pull the levers and work through it with the consumer.
Research Division</strong> And I appreciate the color and it's good insight I think into the business model.
The last question I had is something we've been thinking about and I just want to get your view on this as effect to the industry and as effect to KB.
I think we've had great home price appreciation.
I think that's obvious in your numbers and certainly some of it's mix shift some of it's real price appreciation.
But if the rate of home price appreciation were to stabilize or even decline -- still stay positive still have growing prices but not at the same rate -- how would that impact margins on a go-forward basis? Well it would soften whatever percentage of our margin expansion is is tied to opportunistic price increases.
But the biggest chunk of our margin expansion right now is what we're doing that because prices in a city are increasing.
So if prices actually stabilize right here today and then go up further we would love that opportunity.
We'll continue to grow our margin and continue to grow share.
This concludes today's question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Jeff Mezger for closing remarks.
Please go ahead sir.
Okay.
Thanks everyone for joining us today and we look forward to talking with you again soon in the future.
Have a great day.
Thank you everyone.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Michelle and I will be your conference operator today.
And I would like to welcome everyone to the KB Home 2013 Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded and a live webcast is available on KB Home's website at kbhome.com.
The company will make a presentation then open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] KB Home's discussion today may include forward-looking statements that reflect management's current views and expectations of market conditions future events and the company's business performance.
These statements are not guarantees of future results and the company does not undertake any obligation to update them.
Due to a number of factors outside its control including those identified in the SEC filings the company's actual results could materially differ from those expressed and/or implied by the forward-looking statements.
A reconciliation of non-GAAP measures referenced during today's discussion to their most directly comparable GAAP measures can be found in the company's earning release issued earlier today and/or on the Investor Relations page of the company's website.
I will now turn the conference over to the company's Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Jeff Mezger.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you Michelle.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today for a review of our third quarter financial results.
With me this morning are Jeff Kaminski our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Bill Hollinger our Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer.
I'd like to start off today's call with an overview of the significantly improved results we delivered in the third quarter highlighted by our solid bottom line profit.
We are now profitable over the first 9 months of our fiscal year the first time we have achieved cumulative profits at this point of the year since 2006.
We also have the backlog and gross margin in place to drive even stronger bottom line results in our fourth quarter.
This momentum reflects the continued positive impact of the strategies we put in place to reposition our geographic footprint and product offerings along with leveraging our business model to drive revenue growth and enhanced profitability.
Next I'll review current market conditions and provide a few comments on how we believe we are well positioned for sustained improvement in our bottom line results as we continue to navigate a housing market that is strengthening in its recovery.
Jeff Kaminski will then take you through the details of our financial results.
After which I will wrap up our prepared remarks with a few observations about our positive momentum and expectations as we head into 2014.
As I mentioned the significant improvements in our business results reinforce that our growth and profitability initiatives are playing out as we intended.
While we grew revenues 51% in the first 9 months of this year I am especially pleased with the continued progress in our housing gross margin which at 18.2% for the quarter continued our trajectory toward our stated goal of returning the gross margin levels in the low- to mid-20s.
Between revenue growth and a continued focus on containing fixed cost we are also leveraging our growth platform for significant SG&amp;A ratio improvement along the way.
For the third quarter the combination of gross margin and SG&amp;A improvements resulted in an operating income of $36 million.
Our inventory balance continues to grow ending the quarter at $2.2 billion evidence that our investment strategy is positioning us for future growth.
We are putting our balance sheet to work more effectively and in turn through having a higher level of qualifying inventory also lowering our interest expense.
Taken together our margin improvements cost discipline and investment strategy led to a third quarter profit of $27 million or $0.30 per diluted share.
With our current backlog value and its embedded margin along with the community openings we have in the pipeline we expect to deliver not only stronger financial results in the fourth quarter we also expect to be positioned to drive further improvements in our financial results in 2014.
Today we are a different business than we were even 12 months ago.
We continue to push for accelerated growth and the land investments we have made are reshaping the dynamics of our geographic mix our product mix and our customer base across our business.
By repositioning our community footprint we have been able to expand our customer base and today achieve a better balance of first-time and move-up buyers.
For the quarter our first-time buyer percentage on deliveries dropped to 54% the lowest level since 2007.
In addition the first-time buyers we are attracting today have much higher income levels and stronger credit ratings.
They're typically buying larger homes at higher price points and also spend more at our studios.
This transformation that is attracting a better qualified buyer base has led to substantial improvements to both our top and bottom line.
As we continue to invest in growth and our community mix continues to evolve and in order to sustain our favorable revenue and profit trajectory we are maintaining a delicate balance among 3 interconnected components of this strategy: Optimizing the sales pace while maximizing margin and growing community count.
The best and most critical example of this is the evolution of our California business over the past 18 months.
In the third quarter 66% of our California revenue came from our coastal divisions which is a significant flip from where our mix has been historically.
The difference in sales price and margin is considerable between the coastal and inland regions in many cases more than double.
And as a result we have been able to generate significantly more revenue and profits on fewer units.
In our third quarter we delivered 14 additional units in California compared to the prior year yet our revenue was up by approximately $60 million.
This ability to successfully identify acquire and open high-priced communities in the coastal region is a direct reflection of the distinct competitive advantage of our KB Home brand our knowledge of the markets and almost 50 years of experience in California building relationships with land sellers developers and cities.
New communities located in these land constrained areas are highly sought after and take time to replace.
Accordingly the last thing we would want to do is push absorption rates compromise margin and in turn sell through these communities before our new acquisitions are brought online.
Our coastal business continues to grow as we have made significant investments in communities that have not yet open for sale.
We will continue to maintain this discipline of balancing price and pace with the goal of growing revenue expanding gross margins and elevating profitability.
In this context I would like to address our lower unit sales comp for the third quarter.
Our approach to optimizing each community asset and our investment strategy favoring coastal California contributed to our significantly higher profits for the quarter but it came with a reduction in unit sales caused by 2 interrelated factors.
The first was the shift to a more coastal business and a related drop in community count in our inland regions.
Specifically for the quarter our Inland California divisions had a combined year-over-year negative unit comp of 164 sales.
But I was okay with this because in the third quarter of last year we sold through many communities in our Inland business where we booked unit sales that frankly had mediocre margins and the communities were intentionally not replaced until local market dynamics improved.
The second factor that impacted our California unit comp was the timing of new openings.
We had 7 communities opened in August that had been delayed.
And as a result they contributed less than 1 month of sales to our quarterly totals.
In these land constrained areas finished lots are all but gone and we are now acquiring more land that typically requires some level of entitlement and development and both municipal processing and development times have extended.
When these 7 communities opened they all opened to a very favorable buyer response with pricing and gross margin well above projections and all are expected to be strong contributors to our fourth quarter results.
In addition to these 7 openings we have 12 more community openings planned in the state for the fourth quarter.
In essence this intentional shift to quality locations has resulted in significantly more profit for the company along with revenue growth albeit at lower unit volumes in the short term.
We expect our community count in California to be about flat in the fourth quarter versus last year and tilted toward slower absorbing coastal communities.
As a result we are projecting a negative unit comp but a positive sales value comp for California.
Most importantly we are projecting a significantly higher gross margin value from our fourth quarter sales versus last year.
As the coastal markets has strengthened demand and strong pricing power is spreading to the Inland areas and we have recently been investing more aggressively in the most desirable submarkets of the Inland regions as well.
With the investments we have already made we anticipate our year-over-year community count in the state to increase in the first quarter of next year and expect a positive unit sales comp for 2014.
While I focus my comments on California due to its relative scale and impact on our third quarter sales comp our investment and product strategy is working across our business.
Outside of California our business generated positive unit and sales value comps for the quarter.
And as a result even with a company-wide unit sales drop of 9% our sales value increased 7%.
We anticipate the trend of sales value growth outpacing unit count growth to continue.
Let me turn now to the broader housing market and economy.
A lot has been written lately about higher mortgage rates potentially putting a damper on things.
The housing recovery is fully in place and continuing to gain strength.
Inventory levels remain tight across our markets.
Housing affordability is still at attractive levels.
There is large pent-up demand due to demographics and increasing household formation and the desire for home ownership continues to be strong.
There is no question that a rise in interest rates increases monthly mortgage payments and impacts affordability.
But it's only one of many factors influencing the current recovery.
When interest rates moved as quickly as they did over the last few months it caught some buyers by surprise and a few backed out of their purchases.
We're also seeing some potential buyers who are taking a little longer to make the home buying decision as they digest the combination of increased mortgage rates and higher prices in any given market.
We believe both of these events are short term in nature and are fairly typical of the twist and turns housing markets experience in a recovery.
We continue to maintain the tight underwriting standards and employment growth have more of an impact on demand than higher interest rates.
Several of the large mortgage lenders recently announced that they plan to ease underwriting overlays.
It is an encouraging sign and we hope that they do.
When underwriting normalizes and credit becomes more readily available you will see significant pent-up demand unleashed.
Some who follow our company view KB Home as a builder catering primarily to first-time homebuyers.
This is somewhat of a misconception that I would like to address.
Our business philosophy is to focus on demand within the largest consumer segments of first-time and move-up buyers.
We can flex up or down in square footage features and price point and our Built to Order approach appeals to consumers across the spectrum.
Over the past 10 years as we have endeavored to follow demand in a fluid and changing housing market our first-time buyer mix has ranged from a low of 37% to a high of 78%.
Today we are appealing to many more experienced buyers who are drawn to our locations and appreciate the value of our Built to Order process.
These experienced buyers also typically have an easier time qualifying for a mortgage.
As a result our percentage of first-time buyers was down in the third quarter to 54% from 67% just a year ago.
The shift has been most pronounced in California where first-time buyers now represent only 47% of our business.
Moving back to our results once again this quarter our average sales price increased at a much greater rate than the overall market up 22%.
Our ASP growth was healthy due to the shift in California deliveries to higher-priced coastal areas along with higher ASPs in every other region.
To reiterate a point that I've raised in the past while we are always going to opportunistically increase prices where the market allows it is our investment and product strategy that is the primary driver of our ASP and revenue growth.
As a result of our evolution in product and community mix during the quarter while deliveries increased 6% we grew our revenues by 29% and our profits were significantly higher as well.
We have many initiatives in play to drive gross margin improvements.
As I've discussed in the past there are unique levers available in our KBnxt business model that provide profit opportunities.
When customers are enabled to our Built to Order approach to select their specific lot floor plan exterior structural options and design finishes we can recognize additional revenue enhancements.
I outlined this strategy on revenue enhancement opportunities on a previous call where I noted that one of the first things you can see in a downturn is lot premiums.
We have really focused in this area and have made a lot of progress.
The average lot premium per delivery for the third quarter was the highest we've seen in many years.
We also continue to see increased revenue per unit through the KB Home Design Studios.
Our studio sales per home are up $5 300 or 22% since the start of the year.
Moving forward we will continue to work on ways to realize additional revenue enhancements through our Built to Order model.
Finally a key factor driving our solid and growing profitability is our relentless focus on cost containment while leveraging our growth platform.
We feel we have a significant opportunity to grow the top line with our current platform without expanding to new geography.
As a result of our success in this area in the first 9 months of 2013 we grew home building revenues by approximately $500 million while increasing our SG&amp;A expenses by only $19 million.
This is a great illustration of the potential of our operating leverage.
Before I turn to a discussion of our land investments let me take a moment to comment on the contribution of our mortgage partner Nationstar.
Nationstar continues to gain traction and is having a very positive impact on the predictability of deliveries and the home buying experience for our customers.
We are on track with the regulatory approval process for our jointly owned Home Community Mortgage.
And when deployed will further strengthen our alliance while also providing a positive financial benefit.
In addition to accelerating revenue and enhancing profit per unit our third strategic initiative is investing in future growth.
We have now invested $890 million in land and land development through the first 9 months of the year and are on pace to spend about $1.2 billion for the full year.
This will be more than double what we spent in 2012.
As of August 31 our lots owned and controlled is about 56 000 an increase of 25% since the end of last year.
We continue to find investment opportunities in all of our markets that are aligned with our growth and product strategies and meet our financial hurdles.
At the same time we have many assets in our balance sheet that we continue to put to work.
I'd like to tell you about one in particular.
You may have seen the news out of Las Vegas regarding the Inspirada master plan where the Henderson City Council approved our development agreement.
We are working to complete the final steps in the approval and documentation process and are hopeful a full resolution around the end of the year.
It is our expectation that once Inspirada comes fully online we can support 5 to 6 open communities and up to 400 deliveries per year going forward.
Land values in Las Vegas have gone up significantly over the last few years and Inspirada has become a real crown jewel for KB Home.
In closing we are proud of our results in the third quarter.
We have momentum and we'll continue to refine and enhance our strategies to set us up for a strong 2014.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Jeff Kaminski for a closer look at the numbers.
Thank you Jeff and good morning.
We continue to make substantial progress across our business as evidenced by our third quarter financial results.
A number of ongoing operational enhancements and strategic moves produced meaningful improvements in the majority of our financial metrics in Q3 on both a sequential and year-over-year basis.
We are committed to achieving further gains in the fourth quarter and accelerating our earnings and revenue growth in fiscal 2014 and beyond.
For the third quarter of 2013 our net income grew to $27.3 million or $0.30 per diluted share representing a significant improvement as compared to the prior-year period.
The improvement in our bottom line was driven by a combination of higher revenues from increased deliveries and higher average selling prices continued significant progress in expanding our gross profit margin and a lower SG&amp;A expense ratio.
We have now reported net income in 3 of the last 5 quarters and generated positive cumulative net income over that period.
Third quarter total revenues of $549 million grew by over $124 million or 29% compared to the same period of 2012 with healthy year-over-year increases across all 4 homebuilding regions ranging from 25% to 33%.
The largest contributors in dollar terms were the West and Central regions which were up $97 million on a combined basis.
We currently expect an increase of approximately 40% in our full year housing revenues as compared to 2012 based on the projected fourth quarter backlog conversion rate of about 70% and an average selling price of over $300 000.
Our overall average selling price for homes delivered during the third quarter was approximately $299 000 representing a year-over-year increase of 22%.
This marks the fourth consecutive quarter of double-digit year-over-year increases in our average selling price.
This trend in combination with our improved housing gross profit margin clearly reflects a significant favorable impact of our strategic focus on opening communities in desirable locations with limited housing inventory and higher household incomes.
A key result of this strategic positioning has been a shift in our buyer profile from first time towards more experienced buyers.
It has also contributed to the continued trend of sequential and year-over-year increases in the average square footage of our homes.
This favorable ASP trend and our housing gross profit margin improvements are rooted in our ongoing execution of a very substantial repositioning of both our active communities and the products sold within those communities.
From the launch of our Going on Offense strategy in early 2012 to the end of the 2013 third quarter we have sold out and closed 110 of the 188 active communities that were opened as of the end of the 2012 first quarter.
During that same time period we opened 124 new communities closed out of 13 of them and continue to operate from the remaining 111 new communities in addition to 78 older communities as of the end of our most recent quarter.
Approximately 60% of our active communities at the end of the most recent quarter were opened within the last 1.5 years which reflects how quickly and successfully we are able to implement this transition.
Reflecting our strategic priorities many of these communities are in land constrained growth markets that featured creditworthy customers who desire larger homes and purchase more options.
This dynamic from our strategic community shift has favorably impacted our average selling prices and housing gross profit margin over the past several quarters contributing significantly to our strengthening financial performance.
Complementing our community transition and to maximize the performance potential of the premium submarkets we have been targeting we also adjusted our model home strategy within our new communities to focus on displaying larger floor plans with enhanced option packages.
This tactical shift has favorably impacted the mix of deliveries in our new communities and along with the related increases in KB Home's Studio sales and lot premiums is driving both higher selling prices and enhanced margins.
These factors along with rebounding market conditions across our footprint drove double-digit year-over-year Q3 increases in our average selling prices in each of our 4 homebuilding regions ranging from 15% to 28%.
We continue to enhance profitability per unit in the third quarter through ongoing improvements in our housing gross profit margin.
Our third quarter gross margin was 18.2% as compared to 16.7% in the same quarter of 2012.
In the third quarter 2012 the housing gross profit margin included insurance recoveries of $16.5 million partially offset by inventory impairment charges of $6.4 million.
The current quarter gross margin included the impact of a $5.9 million charge associated with water intrusion related warranty repairs.
As we indicated during the second quarter earnings call we continue to assess progress in completing repairs on affected homes in Central and Southwest Florida as part of our normal process.
Our further analysis of the repair effort during the current quarter led us to increase our estimate of repair cost for one attached home community which while unexpected represented the majority of the charge.
We are actively managing monitoring and analyzing this situation and we'll update our repair cost estimate in the future as warranted.
After adjusting for the items that I just discussed our housing gross profit margin improved from 14.3% in the third quarter of 2012 to 19.3% in the current quarter a notable year-over-year improvement of 500 basis points as well as a solid sequential increase compared to our second quarter.
This sizable improvement primarily reflected the impact of the strategic initiatives we have implemented our ongoing emphasis on pricing discipline and the strengthening housing market.
Partly offsetting these positive gross profit margin factors was the impact of higher direct construction cost.
We are pleased with the significant progress that we have made in expanding our housing gross profit margin closer to what we see as our normalized level of the low- to mid-20s.
We are working on implementing a number of specific profit enhancement initiatives to continue the success we have achieved to date from our land investment and product strategies and to take advantage of the generally more favorable housing market conditions.
Our focus on enhancing profitability also clearly includes controlling overhead cost which we believe can be seen in our third quarter results.
Our selling general and administrative expenses for the quarter were $63.5 million or 11.6% of housing revenues a solid improvement as compared to the 14.1% ratio for the same period of the prior year.
The current quarter ratio was also favorably impacted by higher housing revenues and income associated with outstanding cash settled equity-based compensation awards.
As we ramp-up revenues we plan to continue to realize the potential of our operating leverage to drive further improvement in our operating earnings and net income.
Getting back to our community count we opened 27 new communities during the quarter and closed out of 23.
We averaged 187 active communities for the third quarter 2013 as compared to an average of 172 active communities for the same period of the prior year an increase of approximately 9%.
As we discussed during the second quarter earnings call our primary revenue growth related goals for 2013 are to generate net order and backlog values that will enable us to achieve our fiscal year revenue targets.
While at the same time opening the new communities necessary to support future revenue growth.
Therefore to maximize the value realized from our active communities we have been carefully balancing pace and price and focusing on top line revenue growth and margin expansion with less emphasis on unit net order comparisons between reporting periods.
As I mentioned earlier we expect a year-over-year increase in housing revenues for fiscal 2013 of approximately 40% with a significant improvement in our housing gross profit margin and overall financial results while we continue to work to generate sustained growth in our community count across all 4 of our homebuilding regions.
Looking ahead we believe our increased investment and attractive land assets and development during 2013 will drive continued increases in our community count throughout 2014.
We believe this will be a primary driver of increased future revenues in combination with expanding average selling prices and sales pace for community.
We currently expect our full year land acquisition development investments to be approximately $1.2 billion the upper end of the range of our prior guidance and more than double the level of investment during 2012.
We are also still on track to achieve our targeted new community openings of approximately 120 and an increase in our year-end community count in the range of 15% as compared to 2012.
We expanded net cash of $133.9 million from operating activities during the third quarter as compared to $14.1 million of cash provided for the same period of 2012.
Yet excluding cash used for land acquisition and development activity from both periods we generated $180.7 million of operating cash during the third quarter of 2013 an improvement of more than $32 million or 22% as compared to the same period of last year.
In conclusion we are pleased that nearly all of our underlying operating and financial metrics reflected significant improvement as compared to the third quarter 2012 and the second quarter 2013.
We believe our solid operating momentum leave us well positioned to deliver strong performance for the fourth quarter of 2013 and beyond.
Now I will turn the call back over to Jeff Mezger for some final remarks.
Thanks Jeff.
Before sharing my concluding comments i would like to first recognize the outstanding contributions of all KB Home employees who enabled us to deliver the strong results that drive our business forward.
Today we are not only profitable we are well positioned to keep elevating our business to higher levels of growth and profitability going forward.
We have momentum and expect to benefit even more from the transformation of our business across markets and products in the fourth quarter and into 2014.
As pleased as we are with our progress we understand there is plenty more work to be done.
Sales unit growth is critical to maintaining a healthy backlog and leveraging the benefits of even-flow production.
We're focused on ramping up our community count to drive unit volume increases.
Thanks to our continued success in acquiring and developing land in premium locations we are confident our expansion of communities will accelerate in the fourth quarter and continue throughout 2014.
The housing recovery is firmly in place across our markets.
And we are beginning to reap the financial rewards of this strategy scale and consumer values that we have worked diligently to establish in our business.
Our current results combined with our quarter-end backlog value of more than $800 million has set us up for continued revenue growth margin expansion and cost leverage and provide a strong foundation as we head into 2014.
We look forward to sharing our progress and more positive results with you at the end of the year.
With that we'll open up the call for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Bob Wetenhall.
LLC Research Division</strong> On a very nice quarter just wanted to see how much upside is there to ASP slot given the fact you're up 22% year-over-year? And I was hoping Jeff if you could give us a little bit more color on your outlook for Inspirada as we go into '14? Okay.
Well as Jeff shared in his comments Bob we do expect our sales price to go up a little bit more in the fourth quarter.
299 in the third quarter and a little above 300 is what we guided for the fourth quarter.
Moving forward a lot of it will depend on mix of what's opening and closing and we think we'll continue to be able to push our overall pricing up through the mix of the communities that we're bringing to market.
We don't bank on prices going up as we project our business and my hunch is that the little uptick in interest rates probably slowed down the inflation side of things for awhile in housing which I actually think is healthy for the recovery in the long run.
As to Inspirada there's a few moving parts to it as you know and the development agreement applies to the villages primarily 3 4 5 and beyond.
We do have assets in village 2 that are in the entitlement process that we intend to open up in 2014 hopefully in the spring and we'll come right behind that as the development agreement turns into actual development on sites and all the builders are hopeful of getting communities opened later in the year in the ensuing villages beyond.
So it's a pretty exciting development in a very land-constrained market and we think it's an incredible opportunity for us now.
LLC Research Division</strong> Good.
And just as a follow-up.
Jeff you've done a great job on managing costs.
Are we kind of at the end of the rope in terms of getting the SG&amp;A ratio to where it's at? Or is there room for improvement as sales continue to grow? Right Bob we believe there's generally some room for improvement.
Obviously we made tremendous progress over the last 18 months or so in improving the SG&amp;A ratio.
But as the volume continues to come on the top line and we're continuing to contain costs within the operations and control basically both resources and where we're spending we do believe there's some incremental improvement.
We are starting to put some money back into the business to continue to generate top line growth as we've mentioned in previous quarters.
We've added quite a few land resources for example supporting what we're estimating to be $1.2 billion of land investment this quarter.
And we think we're making some pretty wise decisions as far as what areas of the business to invest in to drive future revenues and profits and where we look to continue to control cost to drive a consistently improving SG&amp;A ratio.
Your next question comes from Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> My first question is just on actually the gross margins.
You noted that you actually hit a little bit above 19% excluding the water intrusion charge.
And given the trends that you're seeing in backlog and ASPs et cetera is that a good number to work off of in terms of going into 4Q in 2014 from which would it be reasonable to expect incremental improvement from that 19.3% level? Right Mike just specifically talking about Q4 I guess first we do see in our backlog the potential for improved sequential increase in our gross margin and we are expecting a sequential increase in the fourth quarter.
We've seen some nice increases as we move through this year particularly year-over-year and also sequentially and we think that trend will continue through the fourth quarter.
We're really at this point not guiding out into 2014 yet.
But based on what we're seeing in our new communities and the communities we currently have in the portfolio we're certainly not looking to step backward.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And just to be clear though in terms of like what base to think of in terms of from 3Q and given that I wouldn't expect you to be -- obviously you think you're fully reserved hopefully for the water intrusion that that...
I would move it off our adjusted base of about 19.3%.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
Also on the SG&amp;A you mentioned that benefit a little bit by a change in income associated with equity compensation.
What was the amount of that benefit roughly on a dollar basis point level? And is that something that we should think about as an ongoing improvement or kind of think of that SG&amp;A on an ongoing basis that maybe if that was more of a onetime adjustment? Right.
I'll make a few comments on the SG&amp;A just to add a little context to the number in the quarter.
First of all as most of you guys are aware we've always looked at it as a variable component in our SG&amp;A and what we call a fixed component.
On the variable side we're running at about 4.5% of our top line revenue right now and while that can range 10 20 30 basis points up or down in a particular quarter a 4.5% number on top line revenue is a pretty good number to use for the variable piece.
And the fixed component side it does include certain expenses that are not tied to top line revenue but very based on other factors.
And one such item was referenced in the press release which was cash-based comp that's tied to our equity value the dollar amount of impact in the current quarter on that was about $6 million.
And we also have a couple of other legacy benefit programs that vary quarter-to-quarter as well and those were actually about a negative $1 million in the quarter.
So on a net basis between all those plans it contributed about $5 million of income or an SG&amp;A offset depending on how you look at it during the current quarter.
As far as repeatability it all really depends on stock price and with our benefit plans the overall performance of the stock market actuarial valuations and other things.
So while we call that piece fixed there are like I said often times in the past there are variations in it but not tied to the top line.
Your next question comes from Ivy Zelman from Zelman &amp; Associates.
LLC</strong> Jeff maybe if you can just help us with a little bit more clarity around the trends today.
You talked about your pleasure or you were pleased with the fact that your community count year-over-year -- your orders I'm sorry may not have shown the same increases and you explained the negative comp but you attributed it to the profitability per unit was much more where you'd like to see it going forward.
Can you talk about the impact from rising rates and whether you're using selling incentives and what you're seeing in traffic? And about the first-time buyer with the affordability with pricing up so much? Because you're -- it sounds like you're confident that you can continue to see price appreciation.
And also it looks as if gross margins are in an upward trajectory benefiting from add-ons in the design studios that you spoke of.
So I just don't want anyone to be confused where the expectations are so if your gross margins were certainly a lot higher than where we thought they would be.
In fact you're about a year ahead of where we modeled you.
So I just want to appreciate what your current trends are and how it impacts profitability going forward if you could revisit that please? Sure.
Ivy I want to clarify I wasn't pleased with the unit comp down.
I was okay that we didn't have the same sales experience we did a year ago in the inland regions of California.
And I went through that at length because this transformation of our California business sometimes people especially from New York that may not understand the geography don't fully comprehend the difference between well inland and coastal housing within the state.
And if you think about how California has recovered it's been fairly typical that coast show the strength first the closer to the ocean you are the more desirable and valuable the real estate is and once that lists it slowly ripples inland.
And at the time of the downturn we had far more assets inland than we did along the coast.
So you work through those and you're not going to invest heavily in the inland areas because they haven't shown signs of recovery.
The coast recovers first.
You invest over there.
And we went through this dynamic this year where the coast became the lion's share of our business 66% of the revenue in the quarter.
So we closed out of the communities where land is plentiful and you would typically run more unit volumes and have opened up a lot along the coast where you love every lot and you'll take your time and maximize the margin.
And now that the coast has strengthened so much it's moving back inland.
So we're investing in the closer and desirable inland areas and we'll have a nice one too going forward.
Underneath that within the state and you look at the consumer a lot of our communities in the coastal areas we have waiting lists still today and the interest rate moved it's not even a blink for that consumer.
The incomes are probably $200 000-ish or more.
And a payment going up a couple of hundred bucks does not even come close to moving them off of their buying decision.
And the lower you go in price points around our company the more impact it could have.
But it still hasn't been enough to really change the qualifying.
We've had very few cancels due to inability to qualify with the rate uptick.
We have had cancels due to buyer's remorse where the buyer just didn't -- wasn't comfortable.
Not a big number but we did have some when rates moved the way they do.
With the quality of the buyers that we're attracting today it is more -- it is not whether they can qualify it's how much they want to spend on the house.
So they'll take their money and put it into maybe a smaller house and more into Studio maybe a bigger house and less with the Studio and we're able to flex up or down with whatever the consumer wants.
And through that we're finding ways with those buyers that have the desire to spend more in the Studio.
We're finding ways to enhance our revenue specifically with those consumers while others don't spend as much as is typical in the Studio.
So it's a nice flex for us.
And I think overall while I -- as I referred to it there's been a slight pause in the market that we saw.
I think it's very short term in nature.
I do think with inventory at the levels that that is at in every market that we're open in today you're not going to see any real pressure on price.
I think prices will hold.
And as the economy continues to improve and demand comes back I think you'll see them continue to go up albeit at a much lower rate than we saw over the last 18 months.
LLC</strong> That helped to clarify.
If you were to look at your gross margins without specifying guidance just in terms of the ability to still see home price inflation as well as the investments you've made in new communities that you're opening today is there any reason even if we see this pause that we shouldn't see the continued improvement in margins or do you hit a wall because you're more -- your mix associated with inland versus coastal? How do we think about a longer-term gross margin trajectory? Well as I shared Ivy and you know over the years we've had years with our margin up low to mid-20s and that's our stated goal.
We've already guided that margins will be higher in Q4 and we're hopeful of sustaining that trajectory in 2014.
And the inland areas where we're investing now the margins are just fine percentage-wise albeit at a lower dollar value than what you'll get on a higher ASP.
But the percentages on the communities we're opening now more inland are just as strong...
LLC</strong> That's what I was looking for.
So your new communities are going to be able to perform up to the company average now even though they're inland? Absolutely.
Yes we believe so.
And Ivy it's Jeff K a couple of other comments I think in gross margin.
We often get asked that question of what's driving the improvement in the future and whether we see additional runway which we do.
I think at this point I always believe margin improvement is an incremental gain.
You get 10 20 30 basis points out of a number of different activities and they accumulate to significant margin improvement over time.
As Jeff mentioned we mentioned during the prepared remarks we are targeting that normalized range as a minimum to get back to as a business and we have a fairly long list of actions and activities that we're looking at.
And by way of example just to provide a few we're working very hard right now on product standardization we're value engineering some of the standardized product again and again and again to get our bill cost down.
Of course on the pricing side we'll continue to look opportunistically for some market conditions that would imply that we could again raise prices in certain of those submarkets.
We're focusing on lot premiums.
Studio revenue increases should continue to contribute.
We -- as we're selling higher-priced homes to more creditworthy buyers that have more disposable income we're seeing increases certainly in the dollar amount of Studio revenue that's coming through the system.
We have supply rationalization initiatives in place.
We're looking at synergies on purchasing side both from a national and a regional level.
And we're also seeing a positive impact of our higher ASP due to all the factors we mentioned earlier on the higher ASP but not to mention the changing buyer demographics but that higher ASP is leveraging our land cost more favorably.
So while each of those may be small on the increment a long list of small improvements we hope to drive continued gross margin improvement based on that.
Question comes from Stephen King of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> It's Steve Kim from Barclays.
I guess my first question relates to the strategy of moving a little bit more up in terms of the price point I know you talked about flexibility there.
And in particular what I'm curious Jeff is if you could provide a little bit of color as to what you think the duration of this opportunity is going to be for your company.
Is this something that we should be getting accustomed to from a longer-term perspective? And is that reflected in sort of the land purchases you're anticipating to make over the next year or so given that you will then ultimately deliver out maybe as far out as 3 to 5 years? Or is this sort of more of a near-term opportunity that you see that exists in the market today? Frankly Stephen it's both.
What happened here we were very successful investing more money in the coastal area a few years back and it takes time to bring it through to revenue and we intend to continue to grow that business.
So you'll see it stay a high percentage until markets have fully recovered and we can be more broad-based in our activity levels out in the inland areas.
The inland areas we're still fairly selective.
While I'd say they're strengthening they're strengthening in the geographies that are closest to the urban cores.
And you get out to where the land is plentiful the markets aren't that strong yet.
So I think this will take a little while before we would tilt back to more revenue inland.
But it will happen at some point in time as the markets recover.
And at the same time I think you'll see us continue to push this business probably to a bigger percentage than it's been in the time I've been with this company because we're finding it pretty successful and it's working extremely well.
Right.
And I think for the purposes of short term long term how you want to look at it I mean we now have 13 quarters in a row of improving ASP and the last 4 quarters were all double-digits.
So we've been pretty successful with the strategy.
And like Jeff said we'll see what conditions hold in the future.
But we don't think it's run out yet at this point.
Research Division</strong> I guess where this is kind of going in my mind is the ultimate opportunity for KB Home as you approach mid-cycle or even later and beyond.
In particular where you were at the peak of the last cycle was obviously a level of revenue that was quite high relative to where we are today.
But it was also one where you were somewhat more focused on the entry-level than it sounds like you might be this cycle.
And as a result I'm curious as to whether you've thought about longer term what the size or the ability to scale this business might be given that you now have what you see as a competitive advantage or a core competency now in moving higher up the price point.
You think you could have maybe a bigger opportunity set later this cycle than you had last cycle? Stephen that was what I refer to as a misconception.
And maybe it goes back to even the Eli road days of the '60s and '70s.
But in '06 we were around 35% 40% first time.
We were predominantly move-up builder at the peak of the market.
And that's why I wanted to say that people think we're just a first time builder.
The beauty of our business model is we go where the demand is and we can flex up and down.
And right now it's 2 things.
It's a flex to higher-priced areas where our model's working well.
And in many cases it's the bigger homes being modeled than we have over the last 4 or 5 years.
So I think what we've recognized is the ability to push both ends whether it's a first-time buyer business which will come back as underwriting loosens up and continue to attack the demand of the move-up buyers so I think we can be more balanced than we have been in the past.
Your next question comes from Megan McGrath from MKM Partners.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up question you gave a lot of good color on California and your expectations in the fourth quarter that you would see a unit comp decline.
Can you give us any more color outside of California around community count openings and your expectations so we have sort of a clear idea of how that community count growth is going to play out over the next couple of quarters? Right.
I guess first just starting with California we do expect to be basically flat from prior year in community count in California in the fourth quarter.
For the business overall however we are still on target to achieve about a 15% year-over-year increase by the end of the year in community count.
We're going to continue to drive openings in the fourth quarter to achieve that.
So we're seeing nice growth across the business.
As Jeff mentioned we are seeing different changing mix in our communities.
We're seeing an increase in our move-up buyers and the buyer profile and some other factors that may or may not be impacting absorption rates but that's what the community count profile looks like going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then you talked a lot about inland empire versus coastal.
Again can you give us any color on margins California margins versus other parts of the U.S.
where you're focused.
And if we see a somewhat -- even somewhat temporary mix away from California as you try to get those communities open is that something we should be aware of as we move into 2014 if you start to mix away temporary California into Texas or the Southeast? Megan I'll let Jeff talk the numbers because I don't know how much guidance we're going to give you within each of the regions right now for '14.
But I shared in my prepared remarks that our strategy is working company-wide.
There's a part of every city where demand is the strongest and it's land-constrained and we're going upstream in products a little bit to cater to that demand.
And that was in large part what triggered the ASP increase you saw by region in the quarter.
It wasn't just a California ASP.
And as each market recovers at its own pace we would expand our business to the next layer of suburbs depending on how that economy's recovered and how our returns are working in that city.
But we have a growth mandate for every business right now.
And it all rolls up to a nice projection for where we can get to as a company.
And we're not going to invest anywhere unless our margins are going to hit our hurdles and our returns.
So it's a broad base but the margin upside I think is more driven by the price similar percentages but by the price of any given community that we open.
You want to make any more comments on that? Other than -- I really have not much to add to that other than the mix of that California business has been pretty consistent as we go through the year.
We're investing at a rate that will keep it at least consistent if not drive it further up.
As Jeff mentioned some of the communities in the state are taking a little bit longer to open because of longer development timeframes but it's an important component of our business and one that we fully expect to continue to drive into the future.
Your next question comes from Joel Locker from FBN.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just I was looking at your community count change out west if -- what had ended the quarter on a year-over-year basis? I'm sorry I missed the end of that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just in the west what was the year-over-year change in community count? Year-over-year change on average for the quarter we were down 22% in the west region.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Down 22%.
And do you guys carry like from your mortgage division if you have a DTI in backlog both front-end and back-end? We don't really get those numbers Joel.
Our mortgage relationship is still independent with Nation Star where we have a preferred marketing relationship.
So they're not going to give us the credit and the ratios of their customers.
But I do know on average one of the things that shifted a little bit that they did share is in their closings between Q1 and Q3 are buyers putting a couple more percentage points of down payment which is a nice trend it's another way to reinforce that the quality of our buyers getting better.
But in the third quarter our average at Nation Star was an LTV under 87% so about 13.5% down.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Just last question on the -- if you look to the fourth quarter for orders are you trying to hold it at 3 a month or if you have to increase incentives do it that way or would you let it fall below there and just kind of maximize mortgages like you kind of have? Joel my comment across the company is optimize every asset.
So we will set our run rate in a margin that you toggle back-and-forth to per community.
And if it's a coastal California community like I talked about a high-margin high-priced can't be replaced we'd rather hold on those and let them play out and take another sale or 2 in the first quarter.
If it's an area with a lot of lots that are replaceable the run rate may be a little higher and we'll take steps to move the run rate if it were to fall behind the absorption.
So as a company on average right now we're targeting around 4 a month with the move-up stuff a little less and the first-time buyers stuff a little more and it will vary with every community in every division.
But we'll take the steps to make sure that we hit the margin and the sales pace that we targeted.
I just want to come back Joel just for a second on the community count in the west region just to reinforce a point we made earlier.
In the fourth quarter we do expect to catch up to get at least equal to last year with that community count where some of the delayed openings and other initiatives we have in place and the investment that we put into the state we are looking we to rebuild that community count in California.
This is lagging a little bit of the overall company in that rebuilding process.
So we are expecting flat in Q4 and then building from there as we go into 2014.
Your next question comes from Dan Oppenheim from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you can just talk in terms of the change in mix and saying the high-end buyers won't blink at all but you also talked about some of the buyer's remorse.
So should we interpret that as much more of that buyer's remorse was sort of the fact that half of the buyers were first-time buyers that we were seeing most of the impact there? I wouldn't just lay it on the first-time buyers Dan.
It's just things change.
And when things change people get unsettled.
And there was a lot of talk in the media that interest rates were going up and housing markets were going to stall and the economy is going down and I think it rattles consumer confidence.
So it was more buyer remorse than consumer confidence than it was that they don't qualify.
Now having said that there's obviously more pressure the lower you go in income but if you look at our ASP I remember I forgot to share before but in the Nationstar powers I want to say our average income was $91 000 in the quarter.
So a payment moving up $100 or whatever it was in the quarter is not going to move that buyer.
If that went up another 1.5 I think it starts to become material but the move that we had it was just -- it was so quick I think it caught people off guard.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then you talked -- with the communities that ended up opening late but sort of opened in August rather than a little bit earlier can you talk about the success you ended up having with those in terms of just some of the initial results there and strength in sort of trends in August? Yes.
I touched on that in my comments Dan they all opened strong.
The buyers were waiting on us frankly.
And when you have the type of community locations we have you're going to take your time and open them right.
So we will not open until they're fully presented merchandised landscaped decorated.
The waiting list grow you actually can take the buyer enthusiasm then turn it into a little bit even better price and sales out of the opening if you're successful where you're opening in.
All of them exceeded our projections on price and margins.
So this is not that the market was different or anything.
It's that we didn't get them open as early as we thought in the quarter.
So it's a great reinforcement that the market's still there.
Your next question comes from Adam Rudiger from Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> In your opening remarks you commented a little bit on some pressure on direct construction costs I was wondering if you'd just elaborate a little bit there and could you quantify how much and if there was any -- what the specific categories you were seeing the most pressure? Right yes I think it's been pretty consistent with what we've seen for the earlier parts of the year and the earlier quarters.
The category I mean generally labor we've seen labor pressures across one of the businesses.
It's subsiding in certain areas other areas we're still seeing some concerns there.
Concrete has been a hotspot for us.
Of course earlier in the year the drywall increases continue to ratchet through the system and provide a negative on a year-over-year basis in each of the quarters.
Lumber was up earlier in the year it has come down off the highs.
But I think in certain divisions where we have lumber locks it still may have had a slight negative on the third quarter results and we're hoping to see some positive benefit or some retraction I guess of that in the future.
I think in the quarter in total it was about 400 basis points compared to prior year in movements in commodities and labor and we see that as being mainly offset by what I call pure market price increases as distinct and separate from the pricing and the lift in top line that we've seen from some of the strategic initiatives that we've taken.
So we think our market -- the market movements in prices is offsetting the commodity increases and we're looking to control that further as we go into the fourth quarter and into 2014.
Your next question comes from Eli Hackel from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 questions.
So rates seem to have stabilized for a little bit now.
Clearly the move-up was quite quick.
Just curious in your view as in previous cycles how long does it take people to sort of realize okay maybe they steadied here they're going a little bit lower to get some of that momentum coming back? And then just on California do you have all the land you need for 2014 in California and now it's more 2015 and beyond? Eli on the interest rates I think the consumer has already adjusted to them.
If you think about it in a recovery normally you'll get activity levels the economy gets better you get price and then rates would slowly tick up because the Feds worried about inflation.
This time around they've kept rates on the floor.
We didn't get activity we've got price because there ended up being no inventory out there.
Then you had the price -- this price spike and I think the little rate uptick -- and rates do need to go up over time.
The rate uptick probably cooled the pricing down some.
so I think again it's the normal push and pull and twist and turn you'll see in a market recovery.
We don't expect rates to move up dramatically until the economy is in much better condition.
It's improving.
But it's a slow recovery.
And I think everybody's watchful of what happens in D.C.
relative to the housing policy and the GSEs and all the other things we all keep reading about in the paper.
But we don't expect a significant rate increase.
We think it will just slowly grind up and we'll manage to it along the way.
But I don't think it's the big driver right now in demand as I've said.
If underwriting were going to loosen -- if underwriting were to loosen up it will more than offset any kind of interest rate uptick.
Research Division</strong> No I agree with you.
I just -- from the big sharp uptick that we had it did cause maybe a little bit of a pause that you were talking about and your view now is that consumers have already adjusted and things are maybe as you moved into September a little bit more back to I don't know if normal's the right word but adjusted normal? An analogy from me would be when gas prices go way up people are shocked and then they settle in and then people wonder if price are going to go back down then they don't go back down.
And rates were so low I think the consumer got a little complacent.
And we had a lot of people that weren't even thinking about locking their interest rates because rates haven't moved in such a long period of time.
Now everybody sensitized the rates and our buyers are more savvy and in touch and when they make the buying decision they're protecting their mortgage rate a little more than they were back in April May and June.
So it's one of those dynamics you deal with in a recovery market.
Research Division</strong> And just on the California land position? We're covered for '14.
We'll operate -- if we can find some opportunities we'll take them for '14 and we're working on '15 as well.
But '14 is covered right now.
Ladies and gentlemen this will conclude today's question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Jeff Mezger for closing remarks.
Please go ahead sir.
Okay.
Thanks again everyone for joining us today.
We are pleased with our progress and excited about our future and we look forward to sharing our results with you again in the very near term.
Thank you.
Thank you everyone.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning my name Kyle.
I will be your conference operator today and I'd like to welcome everyone to the KB Home 2013 Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded and a live webcast is available on KB Home's website at kbhome.com.
The company will make a presentation and then open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] KB Home's discussion today may include forward-looking statements that reflect management's current views and expectations of market conditions future events and the company's business performance.
These statements are not guarantees of future results and the company does not undertake any obligation to update them.
Due to the number of factors outside of its control including those identified in the SEC filings the company's actual results could be materially different from those expressed and/or implied by the forward-looking statements.
A reconciliation of non-GAAP measures referenced today to the most directly comparable GAAP measures can be found in the company's earning release issued earlier today and/or on the Investor Relations page of the company's website.
I'll now turn the conference over to the company's Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Jeff Mezger.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you Kyle and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today for a review of our fourth quarter and full year results.
With me this morning are Jeff Kaminski our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Bill Hollinger our Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer; and Thad Johnson our Vice President and Treasurer.
I'd like to start today's call with a review of our results for 2013 a year in which we made significant progress highlighted by our return to full-year profitability.
I'll then review highlights of our fourth quarter and the ongoing actions we are taking to further enhance our results.
Jeff Kaminski will provide a detailed look at our financials after which I will conclude with a few final comments about our expectations for 2014.
We will then open the call to your questions.
As we look back on 2013 we're pleased with our achievements.
First and foremost we restored profitability.
Moreover we were successful in driving results through execution on our 2 key strategic initiatives for the year enhancing profitability per unit and accelerating top line growth.
We've been sharing updates on these initiatives during our quarterly calls.
And I am proud to say that the results of our actions are clearly reflected in our financial accomplishments.
For the year we reported net income of $40 million.
Revenues grew by 34% to $2.1 billion.
Our operating income was $92 million an improvement of $112 million over 2012.
We grew our net order value by 24%.
We are entering the new year with a healthy backlog value of $682 million that carries a much higher gross profit per unit than a year ago.
We invested more than $1.1 billion in land and development and at year end owned and controlled over 61 000 lots a 37% increase over the prior year.
Along the way we continued to take steps to strengthen our balance sheet and are well positioned to fuel our growth moving forward.
Overall it was a much improved year compared to 2012.
While we realized we have a lot more to do to achieve our targeted margins our strategy is clearly working and we believe there is tremendous upside ahead for our business.
Let me highlight a few of the key actions that drove our profit improvement and growth this year.
With our fact-based approach to community and product positioning we focused our investments in attractive locations where housing demand is strong and median income levels are higher which in turn supports higher price points.
These locations feature buyers who purchased larger homes along with selecting structural options that create additional living space.
As a result the average size of the homes we delivered continued to increase throughout the year.
With our average square footage delivered in the fourth quarter at 2 293 square feet an increase of 7% from a year ago.
In addition to purchasing larger homes these consumers are investing more in customizing their homes that are studios.
And with our Built to Order approach we continue to successfully capture incremental revenue opportunities such as lot and elevation premiums.
The combination of these actions along with favorable market conditions resulted in an 18% increase in our average selling price versus the prior year and also an expansion of our gross margins.
At the same time our ability to contain fixed costs while leveraging our strategic growth platform provided solid SG&amp;A leverage.
For the year we grew our homebuilding revenues by over $0.5 billion with limited increase in our SG&amp;A expense.
Between our gross margin improvements and SG&amp;A controls we improved operating margin by 570 basis points in 2013 and expect additional improvement going forward.
Before reviewing our fourth quarter results I'd like to offer a few comments on the state of the housing market and its relationship to the national economy.
The fundamental drivers of a housing recovery remain in place although conditions are not as favorable as they were 6 months ago.
Resell inventory levels have been slowly increasing but still remain low by historical standards.
Affordability is at attractive levels demographics remain strong and there is pent-up demand due to delayed household formation.
During the last half of the year however higher mortgage rates higher home prices and lowered consumer confidence due to uncertainty in Washington triggered a pause among homebuyers who are now being more cautious as they consider their purchase.
We believe this pause is short term in nature as buyers digest higher rates and higher prices.
In the meantime we feel that less upward pressure on home prices is healthy for a measured sustainable housing recovery.
In this environment we expect to continue to see a supply-constrained housing recovery as some areas in most cities feature median home pricing that still does not support additional investment in new community development.
Housing starts remained well below historical averages and while the long-term trend is positive we believe it will still take time to reach normalized activity levels.
As the recovery continues to move forward we expect housing will resume its traditional role of creating jobs and helping to drive a stronger economy.
Against this backdrop let me turn now to our fourth quarter results.
Revenue was $619 million an increase of 7% from a year ago.
Net income was $28 million up from $8 million the prior year.
Our gross margin continued to improve on a year-over-year basis as did our SG&amp;A ratio.
Due to our increasing land investments our average community count for the quarter was up 12% versus the fourth quarter a year ago.
Net orders were 1 556 and net order value was $482 million.
Our backlog value at year end was up 10% with per unit gross profit that is nearly double that of a year ago.
At a high level our financial results were very positive.
Our strategic actions enabled us to continue the trend of increasing sales prices expanding gross margins levering SG&amp;A and growing revenues which led to substantially better bottom line results.
While we delivered fewer homes this quarter than last year we were significantly more profitable.
And more importantly it was our most profitable quarter in many years.
Moving on to sales.
While net orders were flat our net order value increased 5%.
Our sales results varied by region across the country.
Starting with California unit sales were down by 248.
This weak result was more related to our ongoing repositioning strategy and the timing of community openings and sellouts than it was a reflection of current market conditions.
In our Inland business which accounted for the majority of the shortfall we continue to sell through existing communities and are experiencing a lag before our more recent investments come online.
In our coastal business any given quarter can have a wide variance in unit comparables due to the timing of community openings sellouts and the opening of the follow-on community.
As a great example of this we successfully grand-opened 2 communities in Irvine in the fourth quarter of 2012 that reported 46 sales for that quarter.
Both were sold out by the fourth quarter of this year and the follow-on communities in Irvine don't start opening for sale until January.
Looking forward as we ramp up a more consistent flow of community openings with higher lot counts in California we expect to see less quarter-to-quarter variance.
We remain very bullish on our home state where market demand remains strong supply is limited and we will continue to balance our sales pace to optimize margin.
An excellent illustration of the underlying strength of our California business is that while our backlog value in the state is down 17% at year end our profit in backlog is up 34%.
In our other 3 regions our sales results were positive.
Most significantly our Central region which includes Texas and Colorado booked a 37% increase in net orders and is well positioned entering the new year with a backlog value that grew 37%.
In the Southwest region net orders were up a very healthy 34% and backlog value grew 26%.
The Southeast region also generated increases in both net orders and backlog value evidence that our strategy is working across our entire system.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jeff for a detailed update on our financial performance after which I'll make a few final comments.
Jeff? Thank you Jeff and good morning.
Our ongoing focus on repositioning our community and product mix as well as enhancing the execution of our business strategies led to improvements in the majority of our financial and operational metrics in the fourth quarter on both a sequential and year-over-year basis.
We are committed to building on these favorable trends and continuing our earnings and revenue growth in fiscal 2014.
We believe that the primary driver for our improved results has been the strategic targeting of our investments during the last few years towards land-constrained submarkets with strong economies and other attributes that appeal to higher-income creditworthy customers who want larger homes and more options and upgrades.
In continuing to open more new home communities in these areas and by balancing our sales pace and pricing we have been able to drive increases in our average selling prices and housing gross profit margin over the past several quarters as the housing recovery has progressed.
At the same time we have streamlined and leveraged our overhead and improved our operating efficiencies enhancing our profitability.
The success we have achieved from these combined initiatives can be seen in our fourth quarter and full year performance.
For the fourth quarter of 2013 our net income grew to $28 million or $0.31 per diluted share representing a more than threefold improvement as compared to the prior year period.
The gains to our bottom line resulted from a combination of higher revenues from higher average selling prices continued expansion in our gross profit margin and an improved SG&amp;A expense ratio.
Fourth quarter total revenues of $618.5 million increased by over $40 million or 7% compared to the same period of 2012 with year-over-year growth ranging from 22% to 43% in the Southwest Central and Southeast regions partially offset by a 12% decline in the West Coast region.
It is important to note that in the West Coast region even with the decline in revenues the pretax profit was up nearly 130% versus the fourth quarter of 2012 due primarily to significant improvements in housing gross profit margin.
Our overall average selling price for homes delivered during the fourth quarter was approximately $301 000 representing a year-over-year increase of 11%.
This marks a fifth consecutive quarter of double-digit increases in our average selling price.
All 4 of our homebuilding regions also saw double-digit year-over-year Q4 increases ranging from 10% to 29%.
As I noted earlier this trajectory of higher average selling prices stems from our ongoing operational initiatives as well as generally favorable housing market conditions within our community footprint.
In addition as we reported on our last call our strategic moves have resulted in a more balanced mix of first-time and experienced buyers and contributed to sequential and year-over-year increases in the average square footage of our homes delivered.
And these trends continued in the fourth quarter.
At the end of the year we owned or controlled 61 095 lots an increase of 37% as compared to 44 752 lots at the end of fiscal 2012.
This significant increase reflected the success of our aggressive land acquisition strategy.
And these lot positions are expected to drive continued growth in our community count and housing revenues in 2014.
The ongoing execution of our land acquisition and development repositioning strategy is quickly transforming our community profile.
During 2012 and 2013 we closed out of 132 of the 198 active communities that were opened as of the end of 2011.
During that same time period we opened 157 new communities and closed out of 32 of them.
As of the end of the fourth quarter we operated from 191 active communities 65% of which have opened since the end of 2011.
During the 2013 fourth quarter alone while we opened 22 new communities and closed out of 20 we had 15 scheduled community openings in the quarter that were impacted by land development and/or governmental delays along with some weather-related issues experienced in Colorado.
Virtually all of these communities have either opened or are expected to open during the first quarter of 2014.
We averaged 190 active communities for the fourth quarter of 2013 an increase of approximately 12% from an average of 169 active communities in the year-earlier quarter.
Positive trends and profitability per unit continued in the fourth quarter in line with continued improvement in our housing gross profit margin.
Our fourth quarter gross margin was 17.9% as compared to 13.7% in the same quarter a year ago.
The current quarter gross margin included a $2.9 million charge for the abandonment of option land mostly in the Bay Area and the inventory impairment charge of $0.4 million and an $8.5 million charge associated with water intrusion-related warranty repairs at certain of our communities in Central and Southwest Florida.
In the fourth quarter of 2012 the housing gross profit margin included $5.6 million of inventory impairment and land option contract abandonment charges and $2.6 million for water intrusion-related repair costs.
As we indicated on previous earnings calls we continue to assess our progress and refine the estimates of future costs relating to water intrusion-related warranty repairs.
We're actively managing monitoring and analyzing the situation and we'll continue to update our repair cost estimates in the future as warranted.
Factoring in the adjustments that I just discussed our housing gross profit margin improved from 15.1% in the fourth quarter of 2012 to 19.8% in the current quarter a meaningful year-over-year improvement of 470 basis points as well as a sequential increase over third quarter adjusted gross profit margin.
As I noted earlier controlling overhead cost is a crucial part of our profitability enhancement initiatives.
In the fourth quarter our selling general and administrative expenses were $63.2 million or 10.3% of housing revenues compared to $63 million or 11% of housing revenues for the same period the prior year.
The current quarter included the reversal of a previously established accrual of $8.2 million due to the favorable court decision.
During the fourth quarter in connection with our retirement of senior notes due in 2014 and 2015 we recorded a $10.4 million loss on the early extinguishment of debt which was included in interest expense.
The retirement of these notes combined with the successful issuance of new senior notes in October extended our near-term debt maturities.
And as a result the next maturity date for our public debt is in June 2015 when approximately $200 million of notes become due.
This represents the only maturity of senior notes over the next 3.5 years.
As Jeff alluded to earlier fiscal 2013 was a major turning point for KB Home.
We achieved our first full year profitability since 2006.
We realized improvements in most of our metrics and we took several steps both operationally and financially to position the company for profitable growth in 2014.
For the full year we reported net income of $40 million or $0.46 per diluted share a substantial improvement of nearly $99 million over our 2012 fiscal year net loss of approximately $59 million or $0.76 per share.
Housing revenues for the year were up 35% to $2.1 billion driven by a 14% increase in homes delivered and an 18% improvement in average selling price.
Our adjusted gross profit margin increased by 490 basis points and our SG&amp;A expense as a percentage of housing revenues improved by 300 basis points.
Excluding the reversal of the $8.2 million accrual in 2013 and an $8.8 million court decision charge in 2012 our adjusted selling general and administrative expense ratio improved by 200 basis points in 2013.
Finally we recorded the operating profits in each quarter of 2013 and significantly enhanced our liquidity position and debt maturity profile through successful capital market transactions in the first and fourth quarters and the establishment of an unsecured revolving credit facility in Q2.
We look forward to driving further improvements in our financial performance during the coming year as we continue to focus on generating profitable growth.
Now I will turn the call back over to Jeff Mezger for some final remarks.
Thanks Jeff.
Before sharing my concluding comments I would like to take a moment and recognize the hard work and commitment of all KB Home employees who enable us to deliver the profitable results that will drive our business forward.
More importantly I also want to thank our more than 7 000 new homeowners who will be enjoying a brand-new KB Homes this holiday season.
As I have shared 2013 was a good year.
Looking ahead we have the fundamentals in place for an even better year in 2014.
Our strategy is working and I am confident that the expansion of our business will continue driven by aggressive land investment and community development.
We have the backlog in place to start the year with momentum.
And with the substantial number of community openings on the horizon we expect to grow revenue while continuing to enhance margins.
While we continue to balance price and pace to optimize the returns for each community the real profit driver going forward will be increasing community count.
Growing our number of opened communities remains a top priority for 2014.
As I said earlier we have substantial pipeline of communities already acquired that are working through the process and for the grand opening.
While some communities are taking longer than planned to get opened we anticipate that our community count will grow moderately in the first quarter and build momentum from this level throughout the year.
We expect to grand open considerably more communities in 2014 than we did this past year.
While our community count at any one time is a function of the pace of grand openings and closeouts we anticipate that our community count will be up in the range of 10% to 20% by the end of the year with most of the growth occurring in the back half of the year.
Our community rotation should lead to continued growth in our average selling price for 2014 although we expect the percentage growth to moderate as we are starting from a much higher base.
We anticipate that our ASP percentage growth will be in the mid to high single-digit range for the year.
We will also continue to drive investment in land and development.
And we intend to build on the momentum of the $1.1 billion we invested in 2013.
And we have balance sheet in place to fuel this growth.
In 2014 our business will also start to benefit from a new profit stream as Home Community Mortgage our joint venture with Nationstar becomes operational.
We experienced a brief delay in regulatory approvals caused by the government shutdown but the process is back on track and the new entity should begin operations in the first quarter.
Nationstar has been a great business partner and the execution levels continue to elevate as our relationship matures.
The alignment as a joint venture should increase capture rates.
And while the profit is important more importantly we should continue to benefit from more reliable loan approvals better predictability in deliveries and outstanding customer service.
In closing our strategy is working and we have momentum entering the year.
We have the investments in place and we have a lot of upside opportunity inherent in our KBnxt business model.
As the housing recovery continues to expand our opportunities will become even greater and we have the strategy to build on our 2014 momentum.
I look forward to sharing our progress with you throughout the year.
Now I'd be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> The first question I had was on the gross margins.
You continue to demonstrate real solid improvement sequentially and you continue to point to that improved mix and even further ASP gains in 2014 as the community count continues to bear out your investment there.
As you look backwards historically you were able to do gross margins in mid-cycle past cycle in the low 20s.
Can you give us a sense assuming that you're going to get more of this moderate home price gains that you referenced over the next couple of years more moderate pace than previously.
Do you have a sense of when perhaps you could get back to that low-20s type margin and any guidance in terms of what we could expect for '14? Sure Mike I can cover that.
And you're right on the gains we've enjoyed some nice gains.
I mean if you look all the way back to the beginning of 2012 we were in the low double digits.
By the end of the year we were just touching a little over 15%.
I'm going to talk here about adjusted gross margins so it takes out a lot of the noise in the various quarters.
I also want to point out that I'm not adding back capitalized interest.
These numbers are including the amortization of capitalized interest in the numbers.
Going into the first quarter a little over 15%; second quarter a little over 18%; third quarter a little over 19%; and then almost 20% now in the fourth quarter.
We're pleased with the result.
We're not say -- I would say pleased with the absolute end result at this point.
We still have significant focus on further improvements and admittedly the improvements and the improvement trend will likely moderate a bit as we saw this quarter.
We were up only 50 basis points this quarter versus the third quarter than prior.
But we're still striving to achieve as you described the normalized margin in that low to mid-20s area.
When -- and as we're moving in to 2014 I think I'll talk first a little bit about the first quarter.
We certainly expect the first quarter to reflect improvement on a year-over-year basis.
But we are forecasting perhaps a slight decline versus our current fourth quarter rate.
And it's really due to 2 factors.
One the typical loss and leverage on fixed cost that we include in SG&amp;A due to seasonally lower Q1 revenues.
And secondly we are seeing a slight mix shift towards deliveries out of some of our lower margin communities in the first quarter.
That said for the full year we still believe we'll see improvements in gross margin.
We're still targeting improvements.
And I think actually even more importantly continued expansion in the operating margin as we plan to achieve continued success in leveraging our SG&amp;A's fixed cost.
So the combination of those factors I think is positive for us as we look out into next year.
As you pointed out we do expect pricing to moderate in the markets and we'll redouble our efforts on cost control and on our strategies on community openings and then we'll offset that.
And I think one big point of understanding on the margin has been and that's why I went through a lot of the description I did in the prepared remarks on the churn of our communities is as we're positioning communities and repositioning product within those communities that's bringing in the majority of the margin improvement in fact.
So when you look at it as a business and you look how different we are in 2013 entering '14 than we were even a year ago and particularly 2 years ago it's had that pretty significant impact on our gross and our operating margins.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And I'm just going to ask a quick follow-on and then my second question as well.
When you say slight decline sequentially Jeff certainly that's inconsistent with historically the slight mean in the 50 to 100 bps range.
And just in terms of the overall second question the water intrusion charges continued to come up.
Now we're looking at 3 straight quarters.
And I think perhaps it's behind a little bit in the reaction in the stock today.
And I was hoping if you could just give us a broader update in terms of what's going on in Florida for this issue.
If you could give us any further granularity in terms of just kind of seems like it's an ongoing issue that we were hopeful may have been behind us last quarter.
And are there any efforts in terms of recovery or from the responsible -- if there's any issue in terms of responsible parties? Sure.
I think I'll start with the margin question first.
What we're seeing -- what I'm seeing right now is in your range 50 to 100 bps of impact I mean just from the leverage issue and then there's some additional impact that we think we may see from the shift to the lower margin communities.
That needs to play out and we obviously need to see what we deliver out of the backlog.
But I think that would be incremental on top of the 50 to 100 basis points on the leverage issue.
And Mike a couple of comments I can add on to that.
We should -- I don't know about the percentage because we aren't sure of that but our dollars of gross margin are higher in backlog today.
And what I keep trying to point out is as our ASP moves up even though the gross margin percentage doesn't necessarily move up.
With it your dollars of margin move up and helps you on the SG&amp;A side.
Looking forward the guidance we gave on ASP is not assuming any inflation.
That's just the rotation of our product mix.
And a lot of our margin lift has been or the majority of it I would say is not the market lift it's what we've done in rotating communities and changing product and all the things that I've shared over the years that we leverage in our business model.
So we're definitely on the quest to continue to pursue our normalized gross margins.
And any given quarter it'll move around some because mix can still drive it in our scale.
As our scale gets bigger and our new products continue to open I think you'll see us continue to advance toward our stated goal even if prices stay where they are today.
Because we're focused on how do we grow margin without growing price.
Back to water intrusion I can say some high-level comments and then kick it back to Jeff.
First and foremost in this situation we're putting the customer first.
So it's important for us to take care of our customer and we are.
I have various senior management involved in this deal and have for quite some time.
We continue to keep our arms around it.
We like the trend.
We'll see out what the future brings.
But along the way as I've shared on past calls we're going to vigorously go after collection from contractors if they perform work that was substandard and created the problem.
So it's a frustrating situation for me.
But it's one that we'll continue to deal with put our customers first and get it behind us.
Right.
And relating to the numbers there are a lot of moving parts in this thing.
We're trying to estimate cost on remaining homes to be repaired as well as estimating how many potential future claims we'll get and then the severity of the problems out of those future claims.
So it's a very difficult situation to try to estimate.
And we are monitoring it very closely.
We're making adjustments as we need to as facts become known.
We're using the most up-to-date information we have in order to book the accruals at the end of each quarter.
And I do believe right now our understanding of the situation and ability to estimate its impact has continued to improve although there are still a lot of uncertainty around it.
We're going to continue to manage and monitor it analyze the situation.
We'll continue to update our repair cost estimates as warranted like I've mentioned in prepared remarks.
And we'll see where it goes.
Like Jeff said there is a lot of focus and resource on it as a company.
We don't expect to complete all of the repairs until at least the end of 2014 as disclosed in our filings.
So we do have some time to continue to deal with the situation.
But just like we try to do every quarter we try to peg it as best we know of what that future exposure is and book the appropriate accrual.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Oppenheim from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering I guess just to start off with the question on margins.
You talked about some of the lower margin communities impacting the first quarter.
Is it really communities or is it sort of a regional issue? I'm just trying to think about communities as they -- some of delays and as they're coming online in the first quarter.
Is that likely to have some impact still in the second quarter more sort of the mix towards the central and southeast as opposed to the west? Yes.
Dan I don't think it'll be as much on regional shifts as more communities.
I mean when I look at for example our west region the forecast right now on the west region in the first quarter is pretty similar to where we're at today.
But within the west region there's -- obviously we have 4 divisions in the west region.
And there's some divisional differences in particular community differences within that.
And you are right in saying as some of those new communities come online that we had anticipated having opened in the fourth quarter and now like I said are either already opened or will open sometime during the quarter.
That will affect obviously that delivery mix slightly in the first quarter as to we need to get the communities up and running make sales and build and deliver homes which will likely happen towards either the end of the quarter now or more into the second quarter.
So it's more of a function like I said during the prior response more a function of community mix.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I was wondering about -- as you talked about the community growth coming but likely in the back half of the year how are you thinking about that sort of across the different regions? Yes.
Well I guess first of all starting with the west region that's definitely following the company trend as a back-half weighted increase.
A couple of the other regions we're seeing a little more growth earlier in the year.
But overall we'll be comping to the prior year.
The comps will be pretty strong starting right in Q1 because we're already at 191 communities.
And at the end of last year as a company we were only at 171 communities.
So we're already ahead of the end of the first quarter of 2013.
And we're intending to grow from here.
It is difficult as we often point out on these conference calls to actually forecast net communities due to just speed of closeouts and sales impacts quite a bit and then some of the uncertainty around openings and timing of openings.
But right now that estimate of 10% to 20% by the end of the year up on the 191 I think is best as we could see at this moment.
And Dan if I could add a couple of comments and you can relate to this since California is your home state now.
It's not just the number.
It's the quality of what's opening.
I can give you a couple of examples down here in SoCal.
We're opening in January in 2 communities in Playa Vista which is arguably the most land-constrained dynamic housing market in California possibly even in the whole country.
And we're excited and that the interest lists are strong.
We've already got pre-approval.
That's going to be an incredibly successful community.
And one community there could offset 5 communities in a much lower priced city somewhere else in our system.
Up in the Bay Area we have a large -- we call it a mini master plan in San Jose a 300-lot community with 3 product lines that's in the process of opening right now that initial response is great prices are much higher than pro forma.
We have a long list of reservations.
And that's why I made the comment in my prepared remarks on it's not just the number it's the size of the communities.
Because over the last couple of years in our coastal business we were picking off a 30 lot distressed deal here a 40 or 50 lot development deal there.
And you're in and out of I mean the same year.
Now with the scale that we're creating in these communities like the San Jose example they have a longer shelf life.
And that'll be around and it'll help drive a much better business.
And having said that we expect all 4 regions to grow community count through the year.
And I think we have a nice growth engine going forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Wetenhall from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask you what's going on with cancellation rates? And going into '14 how should we be thinking about the conversion rate of backlog? Well yes on the can rates we disclosed in the release the numbers.
I think there's a couple of things important for me on that one.
The first is what I like to do is look at -- I look at the net sales and irregardless of the cancellation rate that's sort of the number that we really focus on.
In our case you see a little bit of difference in the cancellation rate as a percentage of our growth sales versus the cancellation rate as a percentage of our backlog.
And it's kind of interesting this year as a percent of backlog our can rate really hasn't moved much as we've gone through the year.
It was 30% in the first quarter 29% in the second quarter 27% in the third quarter and 29% in the fourth quarter.
So it's been very consistent.
As a percentage of growth it's moved around more.
And you get that kind of relationship when you grow sales are bearing as much as we do in this industry on a seasonal basis.
So that's kind of how we look at it.
I often say "Look we look at can rate as an indicator." I mean when we look at hotspots within the company if we have a division where we see the can rates spiking up a little bit we try to dig in and see what's going on and see what the drivers are.
But generally it's a net sales focus for us.
LLC Research Division</strong> And conversion rate just a little bit of housekeeping how do you like us to think about conversion rates next year? And final question any thoughts on land spend? It was $1.1 billion.
It seems like you got a good supply good visibility for the next 2 years.
What should we be thinking about 2014? On the conversion rate question what we've been running is I'd say give or take 60% for the last 2 years.
It spikes up a little bit in the fourth quarter as we're closing out the year.
I think this year we did 67%; last year we did 68%.
But outside of those 2 quarters that 60% range plus or minus is probably a good number.
On the land spend as Jeff indicated we're building off a $1.1 billion -- actually close to $1.2 billion a year.
I think it was $1.140 billion in total as we go into next year.
And we like the growth that's provided in our lot count.
It's given us a really nice boost to what we see in community openings as we move forward.
And we're going to really look at market conditions as we move through the first quarter on opportunities I think very importantly with land opportunities.
So we're still staying very disciplined in our land investment approach.
As those opportunities come in we'll aggressively invest as we have been.
If we don't see the right opportunities at the right returns and margins then we'll pull back a bit.
So at this point we're not really giving number guidance on the spend in '14.
But directionally we intend to continue with the aggressive land investments and development that we've started and continue to build our community count.
Your next question comes from the line of Alan Ratner from Zelman &amp; Associates.
LLC</strong> Jeff I was hoping to ask another question on the regional mix because when I look at your dollar backlog California right now is about 30%.
And a year ago that figure was 40%.
And that region has consistently been generating margins 500 to 1 000 basis points above your other regions.
So when I hear your comments about improving margins in '14 it would assume that you would here expect to see some pretty significant improvement in the other regions or maybe see the order declines that we've witnessed over the past few quarters in California reversing to gains throughout the year.
So I'm just curious if you could add some more color to that.
Alan for starters the GAAP in percentage margins closed a bunch from that range.
That's your raise and I think that was true in the past.
But our other regions' margins are improving.
And it's not that big a GAAP in percent.
The dollars are still huge because of the ASP.
And within backlog it will move around a little bit from quarter-to-quarter based on what I walked through in California.
And outside of California it's been fairly fairly consistent as we go through openings and closings and the rhythm of building our backlog.
So as we've shared for a long time our revenue out of California has typically been close to half of our business.
I think you'll see that go down a little bit as we strategically grow outside of California with California growing along the way.
And as already shared on this call it's our expectation all 4 regions are going to grow at the top line and the deliveries for the year.
So we're positioned to grow.
And it's the -- been an odd dynamic this quarter with openings and closings in California that we can quickly shore up and build as we get into '14 here.
You'll see California continue to be the weighted business for us.
LLC</strong> So I mean we'll get the numbers in the K but I would imagine that and we should expect to see that GAAP shrinking between California and the other regions because the range I gave was at least was through the first 3 quarters of '13.
Yes that's right.
And I think the other important thing is the community openings.
As Jeff was referencing we're very excited about some of the new community openings that we have coming on stream in the first half of 2014 out of the state.
A large result from the land investment that we've put into place in '13 as we're getting those communities developed and opened obviously it takes longer to do that in California than it does in other parts of the country.
And we're very excited about some of those new openings that we have coming online.
Part of the other reason I like I can share on why I think you'll see the GAAP close a bit if you think of the investment cycle we've been through a couple of years ago we were only investing in coastal California and desirable areas in Texas.
And as markets recovered and we put the open for business sign-up at our investment committee around the system we're now investing in higher price points in the cities we're in.
And a great example Denver where our business is performing very well and growing at a nice pace.
We've got communities opening where the ASP is in California but it's not 180 000 anymore.
It'll be 300 000 350 000 400 000 with very healthy margins.
And you'll see that evolve around the system this year as all the investing we've started to do in '12 and late '12 and through '13 will come to market at higher price points in all of our markets.
LLC</strong> That's very helpful.
And if I could just change gears for a second.
I'm curious if you've had any conversations with the folks in Nationstar about some of the recent announcement of changes in the mortgage industry obviously the lower FHA loan limits as well as the increased GSE loan level pricing adjustments.
And curious if you've had any early take on what impact that might have on your buyer? We definitely had discussions and definitely as an industry been discussing things in Washington as well.
Then each one of these little changes on its own.
The housing industry absorbs but they start to add up.
And we expect that the FHA loan limits to drop to the 600s on the coast.
And no problem with that.
Okay fine let's move on.
But some of the inland cities like a Phoenix or a Vegas took a pretty significant drop as well.
And that's where we were surprised at the level they dropped to.
As we got into our business we found that with the mortgage insurance changes that had been ongoing at FHA payments were actually much higher than comparable conventional product even when a conventional product's at a higher rate.
The mortgage insurance has been moving up for the last couple of years.
And our FHA book of business has been going down along the way because the customer was opting for a 5% conventional loan at a higher rate but a lower payment.
So I think the impact will be somewhat muted on new home construction of that specific item.
These g-fee change is going to raise rates over time.
The dust is still settling on this announcement.
And it will -- it's a risk-based g-fee now.
So the lower the FICO the higher the rate will be.
And it's a government's effort to try to get more private money into the mortgage world so they can withdraw a little bit.
And what our industry keeps pushing for is let's do things at a slow pace to make sure there's not some unintended consequence.
In order of magnitude if you're a 750 FICO this g-fee is 1/8 of a percentage point.
So it's not a big deal.
You get down to a 650 or a 670 or 80 which historically is a good buyer and your interest rate could go up 1%.
So there's a new head of FHFA coming in.
They'll have the ability to go adjust and monitor things.
And we're trying to get our arms around those 2 what's the impact.
And also QM and QR are finally getting results.
So there's a lot of swirl in the mortgage markets that we're trying to get our arms around and understand but none of it so far has created a tailwind for the consumer.
None of them on their own are significant but each little one over time could be.
And that's part of our -- we're being watchful right now on the trends and how this develops over the next 60 days.
Your next question comes from the line of the Stephen Kim from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> It's actually John filling in for Steve today.
I just wanted to touch on cost.
Land aside what have you been seeing as far as materials and labor go? What we're hearing is things are generally up about 10% to 12%.
But if you could weigh in there that'd be helpful.
Yes.
I'm not sure we could compare some point as the 10% to 12% of prior year or prior quarter.
Research Division</strong> Year ago.
Year ago.
It's industry not us.
Right.
No that's -- just trying to get a base in that.
What we've seen more recently in the fourth quarter is actually more of a net flattening.
We have had some price inflation in the fourth quarter between materials and labor but it's been more of an offset.
Lumbers come down a bit.
It's offset some of the material or some of the labor increases that we've seen.
And the -- from that point of view it did not have as much impact on us in the fourth quarter as prior quarters.
We're concerned obviously going into next year as we always are about all of our costs of what could happen particularly in the spring on the labor cost side.
But we're mindful of that and we have a lot of resources focused on it from the purchasing side.
We've been doing a lot with our supply base and really very actively working to develop additional suppliers in certain markets and to enhance the position of certain -- of our traditional suppliers across the network.
And really just very cognizant that this could continue to have impacts on us as we get into next year and really looking to offset it as we go.
Research Division</strong> Now on the price side you've indicated that mix alone you think prices will be up mid to high-single digits.
Kind of what inning are we at in the story of your product and market mix shift? Because last year you meaningfully exceeded the industry and you've had another year of mid to high-single digits in excess of inflation and broad home price appreciation.
Maybe if you can help us there? Yes let me start with what we said and what we've been saying for quite a few quarters on our ASP.
The ASP growth that we've seen as a company does not reflect just pure prices as you kind of implied there.
We don't expect I don't expect market prices to go up 5% to 10%.
It'd be nice if it does.
We're not planning for it.
But we do expect our ASP to increase in that range.
And the reason for that is continued strategic shifts for the company continued new community openings at higher price points larger square footage of deliveries and all the other factors that we talked about in the past that's really driving our ASP outperformance versus the industry.
So it's not really just a pure price game.
And I wanted to kind of clarify that before -- I don't know Jeff do you want to make any comments on the general pricing that you expect in the marketplace? We're not seeing anything in the markets that suggest there's a risk of deflation right now.
While there's been a pause inventory levels are still low.
The economy is getting better.
So we don't think there's a lot of downside pressure on pricing.
It's just that the upside pressure has eased right now which I observed is actually a healthy thing.
And what's going on with our company as you look at our scale growing and where we were and where we are you can move price pretty quickly by opening a handful of communities in coastal California and close out a handful in Houston.
So part of our price was just simply that the regional mix.
But strategically within the State of California our investment tilted to the coast.
And higher demand land constrain hard to get deals.
When you do they work extremely well.
And they're at significantly higher prices.
So within California that shift in the strategy drove a much higher price.
As '13 evolved the recovering California moved inland which we shared and we started investing more aggressively in the more desirable locations inland in California.
And as the economy recovers further we'll grow our coastal business but the unit growth will come more from inland that it will coastal.
It wouldn't surprise me at some point.
We'll be a larger business but our ASP in California could actually stop going up because the whole state has recovered and the more moderate price markets become a much bigger part of our business.
You're seeing some of that going on right now and that we're investing in the coast.
And we're going to grow our coastal business.
But we invested a lot inland.
That's going to come online later here in '13 -- or '14 I'm sorry.
And when -- as I say all that it's taken us about if you look in California there's not a lot of lots hanging around in solid locations.
So you're either buying the partial-developed and those are mostly gone or you're having to entitle.
And when you get into entitlement and development it's taken us 18 24 months depending on the location to bring the lots to market.
So there's a delay that's extended a little because of some of the staffing levels in the government agencies.
But it wouldn't surprise me if at some point in time our price goes down in California because a bigger chunk -- our margins will be great business and our business will be great and -- but in the short run it's been this mix shift to the coast that we invested in a couple of years ago.
Research Division</strong> Jeff that's a really interesting point you make on California.
Just to maybe take that one step further.
As we see more broadly speaking outside of California more of the traditional first-time homebuyer coming back into the market do you think that your company-wide mix shift would maybe dial back a bit and you could ultimately in years out see negative price not because of macro environment but just because your mix has to shift to where the market is in these years out? Well you used the right term.
We'll shift to where the market is in our business model.
We've shared back in '06 we were about 30% first time.
We were heavily weighted to move up.
And then through the downturn we shifted the other way.
And now we're pretty much 50-50 I guess in range between first time and move up.
And that's because that's where the demand has gone to.
If first-time buyers their mortgage situation improves so they can get a loan and that demand opens up that'll be a beautiful thing because it will really trigger a solid housing recovery across the nation.
And it's a sweet spot for our company.
And what you'll see happen is we will open up more business to the lower-price first-time buyer.
They'll be at similar if not higher margin percentages.
And you'll turn faster because there's a bigger buying pool.
So that it doesn't mean where we are today would shrink.
It means you'll just offset it by a bigger business with another segment.
And as years unfold we'll continue to migrate to where the demand is.
That's one of the strengths of our business model and the adaptability we have.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Roxland from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just quickly can we talk about the vintage of land flowing through the P&amp;L currently? And when you expect land the purchase whether it'd be over the last 12 18 24 months to begin flowing through the P&amp;L? Obviously some of it's hitting now but how should we think about how the land purchase that you made over the last 1.5 years or 2 years hits the P&amp;L? Well yes I'll go back to the -- to some of the prepared remarks on that one.
That was one of the reasons why I went through Mike some of the detail [ph] I did on the communities.
In the last 2 years like I'd mentioned we closed out of about 65% of the communities that were opened at the end of 2011.
So by default almost all the -- other than 35% that same percentage are all recent land acquisitions.
So the vintage in land in the current portfolio is actually fairly recent.
And we're still working through some of the larger land positions that we had in place let's say in communities opened at the end of '11.
But obviously the vast majority now is more recent land.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So then given rising land costs and the fact that you've aggressively acquired land in '13 and will be opportunistic in '14 how should we think about how you plan getting back to low 20s gross margin on a normalized basis given -- probably given the fact that you're dealing with higher land cost that will continue to flow through the P&amp;L? The land cost is always going to flow with the market in normal times whatever that may be qualified.
But in normal times you'll get a couple points for margin coming out of a community.
And you'll go into it at whatever margin you underwrote to.
Typically as prices go up all it does is cover cost that goes up.
And you get your margin improvement through execution or changing your product.
And that's why we keep sharing while we benefited from some price and we always will opportunistically take it we don't count on it.
And we think we can get to our historical margin levels again.
And we're marching toward it through running a better business.
You don't need the market lift at that time.
So there's -- you're only going to build the homes if you can get a return.
And if the cost of build goes up you factor that in and you'll invest in that location if you can get to your margin.
And you pick it up in opportunities like lot premiums and elevation premiums and our studios and the efficiencies of scale.
There's a lot of different things we can do to get to our margin without having to bank on price.
Your final question will come from David Goldberg from UBS.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to actually take a step back here and go back to Bob's question on the cancellation rate.
And I appreciate the color about the variability of sales in the quarter but if you look at the cancellations as a percent of backlog it's actually been pretty consistent for some time.
And what I'm trying to get an idea of is as you guys move forward to Home Community Mortgage and the JV would you expect cancellation rates to come down in the business? In other words is the prescreening kind of thing where maybe a little bit more aggressive prescreening you're not going to have as many kind of cancellations.
And I know they tend to be earlier in the process.
Or is that kind of the right level for you guys in terms of the business model? David let me make a few comments because you went to a great topic.
And because you have followed us for some time you understand that we have really 2 different can rates.
One is before start and one is after start.
And if you think about it if someone is told they're approved they final it to Studio.
And they have now released and they're watching their own customed home get built.
Your can rate drops significantly.
And there's many divisions where post-start the can rate's single digit.
And their can rate will be from homes that haven't been started yet and haven't made it through the screening process.
Having said that our capture rate right now at Nationstar right around 60% I'd say.
Their can rate or let me say their predictability after an approval is significantly higher than the other lenders who will give us a letter that says they're approved go ahead and start.
And then later on they'll say "Wait a minute not so fast." So we do think that our can rate will moderate some as capture rate elevates through Home Community Mortgage.
But over the years my hunch will be our can rate will be in the range I'd say settle down probably around 25%.
It's always been that way since we rolled out this business model.
It may go down a little.
But as Jeff said we focus more on the net sales.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And that's very helpful.
The other question I had was kind of more of a general question with the land market.
I think during the call you've done a great job on touching on some of the potential hurdles that we faced then also some of the upside opportunities.
But are you finding that as some of these hurdles are coming to light in land markets that have been more aggressive early in the year when prices were going up a lot have you found the behavior of other builders has changed a little bit? In other words here we are looking at a mortgage market that's less uncertain.
We have the FHFA the g-fees.
We had the FHA loan limit changes.
We potentially have higher rates in caper [ph].
And all this stuff's kind of going on along with all the other hurdles that we face in the market are you finding that to being reflective in buyer behavior in terms of the land market? Or is everyone still fairly aggressive to go out and buy a lot? Well I think we're all aggressive to go buy lots in the right locations at the right prices.
I think the builders have stayed fairly disciplined.
And I can speak for KB.
There's been many deals where there were 2 or 3 builders bid on a piece.
We were not the high bid.
We lose the bid.
We are not going to chase it.
And then somebody will try to re-trade the deal before it closes.
And the seller will come right back to us at a lower price than we bid.
And we do that all the time because we're going to stay disciplined to the price points the returns and the product strategies that we follow.
And I would say for the most part the public builders in particular stand pretty disciplined in that regard.
Having said that I also think that right now the land markets have softened a little bit.
They're nowhere near as strong as they were back in May June or July.
And that's part of why I said it's healthy for pricing to take a pause and let the market just settle out because it was running off pretty good back in the spring.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's question-and-answer session.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Jeff Mezger for closing remarks.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Kyle.
And thank you everyone for joining us here today.
I hope you all have a wonderful holiday season.
And we look forward to sharing our progress as 2014 unfolds.
Have a great day.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning my name is Michele and I will be your conference operator today and I would like to welcome everyone to the KB Home 2014 First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Today's conference is being recorded and a live webcast is available on KB Home's website at kbhome.com.
Following the company's opening remarks we will open the lines for questions.
KB Home's discussion today may include forward-looking statements that reflect management's current views and expectations of market conditions future events and the company's business performance.
These statements are not guarantees of future results and the company does not undertake any obligation to update them.
Due to a number of factors outside of its control including those identified in the SEC filings the company's actual results could be materially different from those expressed and/or implied by the forward-looking statements.
A reconciliation of non-GAAP measures referenced during today's discussion to their most directly comparable GAAP measures can be found in the company's earnings release issued earlier today and/or on the Investor Relations page of the company's website.
I'll now turn the conference call over to the company's Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Jeff Mezger.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you Michele and thank you everyone for joining us today for a review of our first quarter results.
With me this morning are Jeff Kaminski our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Bill Hollinger our Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer; and Thad Johnson our Vice President and Treasurer.
I'll start today's call by reviewing many of the highlights of our first quarter results which illustrate the substantial progress we continue to make in our business.
We were particularly pleased with reporting a profit of $10.6 million as this is the first time we generated a profit in the first quarter since 2007.
I view this as a positive inflection point in our business one that we intend to build on over the course of the year.
Following a review of the highlights I will offer few comments on the continued improvement we are seeing in housing market conditions before turning the call over to Jeff Kaminski who will present a detailed look at our financial results.
I will then provide a few closing comments before we open up the call to your questions.
To begin our first quarter results confirmed that our strategy is working as we reported year-over-year improvements in nearly all key financial metrics.
We reported revenues of over $450 million an increase of 11%.
While our unit deliveries were down slightly our average selling price rose by 12% contributing to our positive revenue growth.
This revenue growth is a direct result of the community positioning strategy that I've been sharing with you on prior calls; a strategy in which we have been focusing on acquiring lands and developing communities in well located land constrained and highly desirable submarkets and featuring homes design to appeal to today’s home buyers.
We are targeting submarkets with higher household incomes and our communities now feature larger square footage and command higher prices.
Our average selling price increase of 12% our sixth consecutive quarter of double digit percentage growth is even more meaningful when you consider it comes on top of the 24% increase in ASP we achieved in the first quarter of 2013.
During the quarter we improved our housing gross margin to 17.7% the highest first quarter gross margin since 2006.
We expect continued gross margin expansion over the balance of the year as we endeavor to close the gap on our stated goal of gross margins exceeding 20%.
At the same time we remain committed to containing overhead cost while positioning for future revenue growth.
This quarter’s results reflect the strategy as we grew revenues year-over-year by $45 million while our total SG&amp;A expenses increased by a nominal amount.
Through the combination of our revenue growth higher gross margin and cost discipline we achieved a profit of nearly $11 million for the quarter or $0.12 per diluted share.
This represents a bottom line improvement of $23 million year-over-year.
On a cumulative basis we have now been profitable for the last two years and with our momentum we expect to continue to deliver year-over-year profit improvement going forward.
Moving on to sales we generated net order value of $600 million an 18% increase on a net order unit increase of 6% which further underscores the success of our community and product strategy.
With this sales result our quarter end backlog value grew 21% over the prior year to $852 million which sets up our business for revenue growth moving forward.
While our company backlog value is up significantly as important is the fact that our quarter-end backlog value in California was the state’s highest first quarter level since 2008.
As we continue bringing more communities online these new community openings are generating a predictable sale pace at higher sales values resulting in our sales per community holding relatively steady for the quarter.
We will continue to balance the blend of absorption pace and price to optimize each asset and maximize our gross margin opportunity.
With this dynamic in place the key to unit sales growth now rests in growing our community count.
During the quarter we increased our average community count by 10% our second quarter in a row of double digit growth.
While this community count growth has taken longer to occur than we anticipated due in part to delays in municipal approvals and land development schedules we now have momentum and this growth was a key contributor to our positive sales comp.
We continue to find compelling investment opportunities in our served markets that meet our underwriting standards and are aligned with our strategy.
During the quarter we invested $354 million in land and land development in support of our growth strategy.
Another critical accomplishment occurred this quarter at our Inspirada master plan community in Henderson a desirable suburb of Las Vegas.
We successfully concluded negotiations and executed a new development agreement with the city and in turn distributed the land out of the Inspirada joint-venture and back to the participating builders.
In our case this placed the valuable 550 acre asset representing approximately 4 000 lots into inventory on our balance sheet.
The Inspirada builders are now working together to fund and develop the infrastructure for future phases including having already broken ground on 38 acres of parks trails and open spaces.
We expect to open three new communities later this year with a fourth product line planned for early 2015.
Inspirada is a crown jewel and a very desirable location in an extremely land constrained market.
With this new development agreement in place and infrastructure improvements underway we are confident Inspirada will become the destination community it was envisioned to be.
As we bring these new communities online Inspirada will now be a significant source of growth and profits for us in Las Vegas for years to come.
Turning now to our strategic initiatives I would like to share with you the priorities we have set for the year ahead.
In 2013 we achieved our primary goal of full year profitability by delivering on last year’s initiatives of growing community count accelerating top line growth and enhancing profit per unit.
Building on the success of 2013 we have established these same three strategic initiatives as our top priorities for this year and are focused on enhancing execution to deliver even better results.
Starting with community count our pipeline of new community openings finally has us positioned to drive unit growth through community count growth.
While our average community count was up 10% for the first quarter we expect this growth to accelerate especially in the second half of the year.
During the first quarter we continued to fuel future growth with land and land development investment of $354 million.
With our investments in land we now own or control more than 57 000 lots a year-over-year increase of 21%.
We have the communities in place or scheduled for opening to fully support our 2014 delivery goals as well as a significant majority of our deliveries for 2015.
In our current operating footprint our peak annual deliveries reached 28 000 homes so we believe we have significant upside in the markets we serve.
To help realize that upside our local land teams continue to find new and attractive opportunities in all regions that are aligned with our investment strategy and adhere to our strict underwriting requirements.
We will continue to seek out shorter term opportunities to enhance our 2014 and 2015 deliveries while at the same time we are excited to be working on our growth targets for 2016 and beyond.
Turning now to our ASP growth as I have discussed on previous calls we have not been reliant on market lift to drive our increase in average selling price.
Instead we are driving our ASP higher through our targeted investment and product strategy.
In many of our markets pricing has moderated over the last six months yet in these same markets our ASP gains are significant.
Our home state of California provides some of the most dramatic examples of how our repositioning strategy is resonating with consumers and enhancing our business.
To illustrate during the quarter our ASP in California deliveries was $525 000 a year-over-year increase of more than $120 000.
This represents a price 30% higher than we generated in the first quarter of 2013 and 54% higher than for the first quarter of 2012.
While there is no question that the state has benefited from home price appreciation as the markets have recovered the magnitude of our increase far outpaces the market.
We have been diligently working on our strategy of transitioning our California footprint to stronger locations with more of a coastal orientation.
These areas are land-constrained with very few developed lots available.
As a result with the required entitlement and development work necessary to open a community they typically take time before coming to market.
While we have been working diligently over the last 18 months to open these new communities we continue to build through many of our existing communities in locations that commanded lower price points but sold at our average sales pace.
This transition had a temporary impact on our net order and delivery comps in the first quarter.
While unit deliveries were down 32% with our higher ASP revenues were down substantially less and our California profits were meaningfully higher.
Today we have a much stronger California business than we have had for many years.
Looking forward based on momentum we are gaining in California community count we expect to see a crossover to positive unit sales comps at some point later this year.
The combination of unit growth and our significantly higher ASP will result in very favorable future revenue growth and profits for the state.
While the impact of our strategy on ASP is most significant in California this dynamic is playing out favorably in each of our regions.
As an example in our Bay Pines community in Saint Petersburg Florida an infill location close to the beach we grand opened and recorded 17 sales during the quarter at an ASP of $374 000 which is significantly higher than the market median.
At Alcantara Villas an infill location in North Phoenix we recorded 27 sales since grand opening in December at an ASP of $346 000.
Just like Bay Pines in Florida this pricing is significantly above the medium price for the Phoenix market.
These are just two examples and I could go along with more success stories from each of our markets.
As a result we do expect continued growth in our ASP as our community and product rotation continues to evolve across the country.
I would also note that we're using our locations and product mix to attract the higher income segments of our traditional buyer groups primarily the first time and first move-up customer.
As we open new communities we continue to be diligent in pursuing our strategic initiative of enhancing profit per unit.
The consumers in these higher income areas are interested in larger homes and we have been featuring larger models to meet this demand.
As a result our average square footage increased 8% year-over-year in the first quarter.
Our built-to-order approach also creates multiple profit opportunities through the many levers we can pull to enhance revenue.
When you offer the buyer the opportunity to pick their lot with structural features that meet their taste such as an extra-large kitchen island or a media room instead of extra bedroom they're willing to pay more to get exactly what they want.
I'll give two specific illustrations of the positive impact we are now seeing from revenue opportunities we have available in our business model.
First our studio revenue per home rose 27% year-over-year in the first quarter as these higher income customers are spending more to customize interior features and options in their home.
At the same time our average lot premium per unit has also been steadily growing from $2 900 in the first quarter of 2011 to over $5 600 this year a 91% increase in our revenue line item that drops straight to our bottom line.
We also enhance our profit per unit through the cost efficiencies available in our business model.
Because we offer standardized product series on a national scale and we offer the same options and features in all of our studios we are able to leverage our relationships with national suppliers to realize cost saving.
In addition we share best practices from our sales and studio teams across the company which not only improves the buying experience for our customers it helps us generate incremental revenue and profit with these learnings.
As we have successfully done in the last few quarters we once again drove bottom line improvement by leveraging the efficiencies of our growth platform to increase revenues while containing cost.
As I mentioned earlier we have significant upside potential in our served markets and we have the management teams in place to take out more capacity.
While we are investing in overhead to support future growth we expect to continue to see leverage going forward as we add to our top line while remaining committed to our cost discipline.
In addition to our three strategic initiatives key differentiators for consumers that we feel are driving results in our industry are our industry leading energy efficiency and water conservation programs that can lower the total cost of home ownership while helping the environment.
By utilizing our strong supplier relationships we have been successful in offering many innovative features at minimal cost to our home buyers that have significantly advanced the efficiency in our homes.
Through our efforts we have lowered the average energy consumption of our homes for seven consecutive years and our new homes today are 35% more energy efficient than a typical new home and 65% more efficient than a typical resale home.
We build every home to exceed EPA's stringent ENERGY STAR Version 3 standards and we offer items such as solar power as a standard feature or option in many of the markets we serve.
We’ve been recognized for energy commitment by being named an ENERGY STAR Sustained Excellence Award winner for three consecutive years.
KB Home was also recently honored by RESNET the residential energy services network that established and monitors HERS ratings through the ENERGY STAR program with the President’s award for achieving the highest energy efficiency rating for standard production homes built in 2013.
These accolades are important third party endorsements that our sales teams use every day to reinforce the additional value of a KB Home.
We also utilize our proprietary energy performance guide and MCG Light Certification of Energy Savings that we provide for every home to help educate consumers on the importance of understanding monthly energy cost and the significant savings offered by our energy efficient homes.
We’re equally dedicated to drive innovation and savings in the area of water conservation.
As you’re all well aware water shortages have become a national concern over the last several years as drought conditions have spread across large parts of the country including most of our served markets.
We are committed to taking a leadership role in the industry and water savings are built into every KB Home we deliver.
We exclusively install water sensor by plumbing fixtures as well as water efficient appliances drought tolerant landscaping that combined save home owners 30 000 gallons of water per year over a typical resale home.
The EPA has acknowledged our leadership in water efficiency by recognizing KB Home as WaterSense Partner of the Year for three years in a row and we remain the only national home builder to receive this distinction.
As an example of our continued innovation in the area of sustainability we recently introduced the first double zero house in Southern California; a home which not only features net zero energy usage which means it produces as much energy as it uses but also a first of its kind water recycling system that results in zero fresh water usage for landscape irrigation.
The California Energy Commissioner attended the grand opening and the event received tremendous positive coverage from the local media and TV networks.
With its advanced water saving features we estimate this home can reduce water usage by up to 70% per year compared to the water usage of an average resale home.
This 70% reduction equates to 150 000 gallons while it helps the environment it will also result in significant cost savings for the home owner.
I look forward to sharing additional innovations in energy and water efficiency with you in the months and years ahead.
Let me take a moment to give you a quick update regarding the launch of our mortgage joint venture with Nationstar Home Community Mortgage.
While the regulatory approvals have taken longer than we originally anticipated we continue to clear hurdles and expect to complete the approval process within this quarter.
Meanwhile we are fully staffed and positioned to make a rapid transition to the joint venture once everything is clear.
In the meantime Nationstar continues to outperform the other lenders selected by our buyers providing reliable loan approvals and contributing to more predictable deliveries.
Turning now to the national economy the recovery continues at a measured rate.
Job growth is slowly improving which is an especially encouraging trend and consumer confidence is near six year highs.
Consistent job growth and rising confidence are prerequisites that lead not only to an acceleration in the overall economy they were also the fundamental drivers of a sustained recovery in the housing market.
Mirroring the national economy the housing market also continues its recovery at a steady pace.
Mortgage underwriting standards remain tight which does the limit the number of qualified buyers in the market.
Meanwhile Dodd-Frank continues to be clarified and adopted and proposals in Congress for GSE reform are creating additional uncertainty for the mortgage industry.
Despite these headwinds the fundamental supporting longer term housing demand remain in place such as population growth increase in household formation rising rents low inventory levels and attractive affordability of new homes.
While it will take some time the housing industry is continuing on the path back to normalized activity levels.
As I've often said housing is a very localized business and each market is affected by its own unique factors.
With the success we are seeing in our new communities and the response to our product offerings I am very pleased with the opportunities we have created for ourselves in the local markets we serve.
In our communities traffic and sales have clearly improved over the last few months.
January and February sales and traffic were strong in fact our traffic was up dramatically in February over the prior year a great indication that the spring selling season is well underway and also a precursor of our future sales.
In summary with our expanding community count and attractive locations we are solidly positioned with sales momentum and we expect to sustain profitable growth going forward.
Now I'll hand the call over to Jeff Kaminski who will offer the specific details on our financial performance in the quarter.
Jeff?  Thank you Jeff and good morning.
Our targeted investment in locations desired by higher income home buyers and the higher average selling prices generated from the products we offer to these buyers were the chief drivers of our improved performance for the quarter.
As Jeff highlighted in his remarks by opening more new home communities in highly attractive areas we have been able to improve our net orders revenues and gross profit margins while establishing a healthy backlog of homes.
We have also further enhanced our profitability by taking advantage of the many levers available in our business model to generate incremental revenues and margin from homes delivered.
In addition we have reduced our SG&amp;A expenses as a percentage of revenues.
The success of our investment product and sales strategies are reflected in our first quarter results and we remain focused on year-over-year community count growth and gross profit margin expansion for 2014.
For the first quarter of 2014 our net income increased to $10.6 million or $0.12 per diluted share as compared to a loss of $12.5 million for the prior year period.
The bottom line improvement was primarily driven by a mix of revenue growth from higher selling prices continued strong gross profit margin performance and an improved SG&amp;A expense ratio.
We believe our reporting of first quarter net income for the first time since 2007 marks a certain inflection point for our business and we expect to continue to generate profitable growth for the remainder of the year.
First quarter total revenues of $451 million rose by over $45 million or 11% compared to the same period of 2013 with year-over-year growth ranging from 18% to 63% in the Southwest Central and Southeast regions more than offsetting a decline in the our West Coast region.
The lower revenues in our West Coast region primarily reflected the impact of the strategic evolution of our community mix in California toward coastal submarkets.
As we discussed during our earnings call last quarter this shift led to year-over-year decreases in our fourth quarter 2013 regional community count and net orders thereby impacting our yearend backlog value which was down 17% from the prior year.
The strong revenue growth in our other regions during the quarter reflected conversion of higher relative backlog values at the start of the current quarter as compared to the year earlier quarter.
Our overall average selling price of homes delivered in the first quarter increased by almost $34 000 or 12% from the year earlier quarter to approximately $305 000.
This marks the sixth consecutive quarter of double digit year-over-year percentage increases in our average selling price.
During the first quarter all of our home building regions had double digit growth in average selling prices with increases ranging from 13% in our Central region to 30% in our West Coast region.
The significant year-over-year improvement in the West Coast and Southwest regions of over $120 000 and $59 000 per home respectively and the consistent increases in each of our other regions illustrates the success of our targeted community and product positioning efforts and generally improved market conditions.
In the Southwest region alone our average selling prices almost doubled from the first quarter of 2011.
Also we continue to see benefits from our KB Home Studios as our design option revenues per home for the first quarter of 2014 increased 27% year-over-year.
The benefits of our increased average selling price can also be seen in the year-over-year growth in each regions first quarter backlog value.
As we mentioned in our last quarter’s earnings call we expect that our average selling price will continue to trend higher in the remainder of 2014 though the percentage growth is expected to moderate to the high single digit to low double digit range for the year as compared to the 18% increase generated in 2013.
Our strategic moves have given us a more balanced mix of first time and experienced buyers and contributed to the year-over-year increase in our ASP.
In addition the average square footage of our homes delivered has steadily increased on a year-over-year basis for the past few years with the average for the current quarter up 8% from the first quarter of 2013.
The transition of our buyer profile is reflected in our first quarter results where approximately 52% of deliveries were to first time buyers.
Moving now to land investment and driving future growth over the past 12 months we have invested almost $1.2 billion in land and land development.
Reflecting these substantial investments our inventory balance of February 28 2014 increased to $2.6 billion.
At the end of the first quarter we owned or controlled over 57 000 lots representing a year-over-year increase of 21% as compared to approximately 47 000 at the end of the first quarter of 2013.
We expect our healthy lot position to drive sustained growth in our community count and housing revenues for the balance of 2014 and beyond.
During the first quarter we opened 29 new communities almost double the number of communities we opened in the first quarter of last year.
The majority of the current quarter openings were in our West Coast and Central regions.
We operated from an average of 190 active communities during the quarter an increase of approximately 10% from an average of 172 active communities in the year earlier quarter.
We are pleased that the aggressive land investment and organic growth strategy that we launched in early 2012 is delivering results and we expect our community count to expand on both a sequential and year-over-year basis for the remainder of the year.
We are refining our guidance in this area and expect to see an increase in our year-end community count in the range of 15% to 20% as compared to year-end 2013.
Our focus on enhancing profitability per unit continued during the first quarter as we realized an expansion of 290 basis points in housing gross profit margin as compared to Q1 2013 moving from 14.8% in the year earlier quarter to 17.7% in the current quarter.
We achieved this improvement despite the pressure of increased land labor and material cost.
Our adjusted gross profit margin improved to 17.8% in the first quarter of 2014 compared to 15.2% in the year earlier quarter representing an increase in adjusted gross profit per home of more than $13 000.
This marked the fifth consecutive quarter of year-over-year improvements in adjusted housing gross profit margin.
As we have emphasized during prior earnings calls controlling and limiting overhead expense is a critical component of our profitability initiatives and a major focus area for our operations.
In the first quarter our selling general and administrative expenses were 13.9% of housing revenues compared to 14.7% for the same period in 2013.
This result represents our lowest first quarter SG&amp;A expense ratio since 2007 when we had revenues of over $1.4 billion.
We are pleased with the efficiencies that we have driven in to the business and are committed to maintaining this focus along with generating additional operating leverage through revenue expansion driven by increase in community count and improvements in housing market conditions.
For the full year we expect to continue to realize year-over-year improvement in our SG&amp;A expense ratio as we work to control cost and leverage revenue growth.
Turning now to our deferred tax asset which represents another significant potential upside for the company and is currently fully offset by reserve we are now able to provide more guidance as to our expectations relating to the reserve -- reversal of our DTA valuation allowance.
As a result of improvements in our financial performance combined with our expectations of a continued housing market recovery we currently expect to reverse a significant portion of our deferred tax asset valuation allowance by the end of the year.
While we still have to complete the specific detailed calculations to determine the price size amount we anticipate the reverse of the valuation allowance is expected to more than double our book value prior to year-end in addition to significantly reducing our leverage ratios.
As of the end of the first quarter our deferred tax asset valuation allowance was $855 million.
We look forward to realizing further improvements in our financial performance during the coming year as we continue to focus on generating profitable growth driven by expanding community count and top line revenues enhance gross margins and increase operating leverage.
Now I would turn the call back over to Jeff Mezger for some closing remarks.
Thanks Jeff.
Before sharing my concluding comments I would like to take a moment and recognize the dedication and commitment of all KB Home employees who continue to do the hard work that delivers our profitable results satisfies our customers and builds our momentum for the future.
The combination of our strategic investments new product offerings and improved execution now coupled with sustained community count growth has us extremely well positioned for accelerated profits and growth.
The significant number of brand openings on the horizon across our footprint gives us confidence that we will deliver meaningful increases in revenue and profit throughout the remainder of 2014.
We remain committed to restoring our gross margins to over 20% as well as leveraging our existing growth platform to contain SG&amp;A.
We are building on a foundation of a profitable 2013 and we have momentum in our business.
Our dedication to our business model and the insight and opportunities it provides has enabled us to find success in today’s housing market and we are excited about the incredible opportunities we have created for our company.
We’re off to a solid start to the year and I know the best is yet to come.
With that Michele we’ll be happy to take questions.
Okay.
(Operator Instructions).
Your first question comes from Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
First question I had was on sales pace you had a nice or a better than expected result relative to our estimates and I think most expectations down 4% year-over-year and that certainly is a lower decline than the previous two quarters or a lesser decline just wanted to get a sense of where you saw some of the -- maybe by from a regional perspective which regions showed a greater decline than that 4% or if there are any regions that were up year-over-year and what maybe perhaps drove the sequential improvement given that you're still kind off facing a relatively tough comp in the first half of the year.
Michael what are you referring to when you say the 4% decline.
That will be sales per community on a year-over-year basis.
Okay.
And you are talking sequential or year-over-year? Year-over-year so your orders were up 6% your community count was up about 10% 11% and so the offset was the decline in the sales base on a year-over-year basis.
Okay I got it.
And I don't recall the specific three point whatever it was last year versus three point whatever it was this year but they're within range of each other.
I think it was down slightly and in any given month Mike there is seasonal things and you got a community opening or another one closing.
And if you look at our business we're at a scale now where we're profitable and we're focused on continuing to improve our gross margins.
So we're not going to let communities run away with sales.
We could have sold more homes in the quarter but well as I said in my comments we're going to balance the optimal sales pace and the best price to give us the best returns and hopefully the highest gross margins.
Lot of communities opened later in the quarter it's part of the average as we shared we think that with our community count momentum we'll continue to see expanding sales going forward.
I would say in general that all of our regions were good in January and February I can't think about single region that was struggling.
Coast of California in particular remains very strong and we're very pleased with that.
But as I go around the various markets they're all because of where we're open they are outperforming quite nicely for us today.
To add to it just a little bit Jeff I mean our focus remains on sales value and driving sales value especially with our community repositioning efforts across our business.
We saw double-digit increases in order values in all of our regions low 11% a high of 27% in central region which is particularly strong and an overall increase in sales value of 18% for the quarter which was pleasing given the environment.
Okay great.
I guess that kind of leads me to the second question given the improvement in sales value and ASPs and you continue to execute well in terms of the gross margin improvement and it was helpful that you stated that you expected continued improvement in gross margins for the balance of the year.
You reiterated a couple of times Jeff you have the commitment to get to 20% or better and obviously again you still have that positive momentum at your -- the tailwind.
Can you give us any sense if you would expect to hit that number by the end of this year or would that be more of a 2015 event I guess particularly as you look at your backlogs today.
Mike we would love to -- where we want to be there today.
Obviously there is a lot of moving parts that play into it whether its cost or price and all the things that we shared.
Frankly a lot of it will depend on how strong the spring season is for us as to when we would get there.
We're not going to commit that we'll get there this year but we are going to commit that we'll continue to expand as the year unfolds.
Okay and just one last one for modeling purposes helpful in terms of the expected tax rate or a DTA reversal Jeff Kaminski do you have any sense of -- as that were to occur what and for modeling purposes what an ongoing fully loaded tax rate would be the effective tax rate? Yeah we believe once we have a reversal in the full DTA back on the balance sheet and we are back in the normalized tax rate we think it will probably be in the range of 35% to 38% going forward.
Great thank you.
LLC </strong> Good morning.
Thanks Jeff for telling the world that spring is not [above] congratulations on a good quarter and nice to see such strong activity.
I guess one of the things that you can clarify just for everyone's understanding given your success you talked about North Phoenix Scottsdale and market concern over Phoenix and it sounds like you guys are outperforming the general market.
Is it your price point that you are doing so well is it your location? So that's an easy one I hope.
And then the second one more specific to the reduction in loan limits for FHA.
There has been some concerns in some markets where there has been an outsized decrease in loan limits that those markets are really being negatively impacted.
So I know you indicated Jeff in your opening comments that mortgage is still tight.
We’ve heard some modest easing.
So if you can help us on broader understanding FHA loan limit impact to your especially newer communities you opened in some of those affected markets and what near term headwind that will continue but congratulations great results.
Okay thanks Ivy.
As to Phoenix community it's Northeast Phoenix not Scottsdale it's very close obviously to Scottsdale and Paradise Valley.
So it is a -- I used it as an example of a land constrained play where we came in with a higher density detached product that is well under the price points of traditional lot sized products in the area.
The closest volume builder is five six seven miles away.
So you have no real new home competition.
And in this example we actually talked with the seller and targeted this community almost 15 years ago.
And through our relationships we’re finally able to nail it and then bring it to the market.
So in this case you have incredible demand incredible traffic and visibility a lot of people want to live there.
So it’s a conventional FHA cash there.
We’re seeing all the buyers there and demand so strong you don't worry about it.
And I would say the same of other desirable land constrained high demand low inventory locations across the country.
Again similar to the St.
Petersburg story we shared over in Florida if you look at the FHA loan limits we’re monitoring it and we haven’t seen a significant impact on our business.
I do think in some of the markets that it’s going to have an impact in lower demand submarkets where if prices are above loan limits and FHA was the vehicle for that consumer it could add some pressure there.
So it will be an overall market pressure in the what I’d call it B minus submarkets and the As and Bs to B plus will continue to perform and at the time the limits went down as I recall our FHA business was 30% 35% whatever.
So it's -- it was less than half of our business and in most of our markets that change still leaves the loan limit above our pricing.
Where it came below our pricing is in parts of inland California which is an area that’s recovering and it's following the wave that’s coming out from the coast where we’re playing closer to the coast.
It’s not an impact.
In order for the more inland regions to recover I think you’ll have to see a loan product that can accommodate that buyer but again we’re not that large there.
The other two markets that we’ve heard FHA impacts in are Las Vegas and Phoenix and if you look at the Phoenix story I shared for many of our communities in Las Vegas demand is so strong because there is no supply that the buyer doesn’t need the FHA products today.
So it will be interesting to see how it plays out as you know there is a lot of moving parts right now in the mortgage business.
Underwriting does seem to losing up some FICO scores are coming down and many large lenders have announced that it’s still early in that process but we haven’t seen a material impact with our concerns.
LLC </strong> And just lastly just in terms of community openings you mentioned there is timing delays et cetera within the footprint would you -- so you 10% would you say that you pushed out the annual expectation or are you still on track for the full year with your guidance? Actually we increased our guidance a bit.
I think last quarter we were -- we had a pretty wide range of 10% to 20%.
We tightened that up now to be between 15% and 20% and that’s end of year versus end of year.
We were up 10% on average in the quarter and we’re obviously pleased with that and we’ll continue to push that ahead.
And the other pleasing piece was we opened 29 communities during the quarter and that’s off a comp in the prior year of only 15.
So we more than doubled and that’s about half the communities that we opened in the full fiscal year of 2012.
So it’s on a good pace the land development and acquisition work that we’ve been doing and working really hard at last couple of years that certainly pay off with community count expansion and we’re pleased to see that trend continue this quarter.
LLC </strong> Hey Jeff just to sneak with more in on incentive there is a lot of concern about the market and a pickup in incentives.
It sounds like not only are you not seeing a pickup in incentives but you’re getting pricing.
Can you talk about the market sort of percentagewise how many of your communities you actually raised prices during the quarter or held prices and maybe just a commentary on incentives generally? Ivy I couldn't even tell you what the percentage is where we raised prices.
It’s selective.
We do have communities where we are raising prices some significantly due to demand.
Then there are others where we are not raising prices at all at which we keep the sales price.
As you know in our business model we are not incentive heavy.
We always go for offering the consumer the best value out of the gate.
So it will be an attractive pricing you build up from there at the studios.
So if you look at our financials over the years incentives have never been a big number and right now our incentives are no different than they were a year ago or two years ago.
So we are not seeing a big spike in incentives around our business.
If you think about the type of communities that I have shared we are opening your biggest competitor is resale.
So we are not faced with a competitor that’s out there offering heavier incentives to go get sales in most of our locations and overall based on the anecdotes I am hearing from the field people are being pretty disciplined and going after the spring market.
So we’re not hearing of big incentives coming out there.
LLC </strong> Great thanks guys.
Could you elaborate a bit more in terms of talking about the start to the spring selling season so you have traffic up dramatically versus the prior year? Was that coming based on the -- you think that was across the board you are seeing it specifically in the new communities that were opening up I'll start there I guess? We always have higher traffic counts in openings Dan and many of our communities where we are opening especially in Coastal California the traffic numbers are very very strong.
So that some but we did open communities in the first quarter last year in Coastal California as well so it’s some of it but overall we’re seeing traffic lift across the system.
I think it was system wide through January and February February in particular it accelerated so to me it’s the start of a fairly normal kick off to the spring selling season.
Great and I guess wondering about in terms of the trends over the course of the three months do you see on a year-over-year basis do you see February much stronger in terms of the orders relative to December or January? You want to answer? Sure yes the trend in the quarter was a typical seasonal trend.
I mean we had strengthening sales and higher numbers in February than we did in January and January outpaced December.
Year-over-year I think we are flattish actually in February and had a very very strong January but last year it was more of component what happened last year I would say than this year in the trending during the quarter and opening new communities and things like that.
So it gets very specific for us when we look at it or view it we like to look more at the division level and even more specifically at the community level to see where the strength is coming from.
So we are pleased with the openings we had during the quarter and we are pleased with the performance.
Like I said earlier we opened 29 new communities and that certainly helps out to have some fresh land on the books and some fresh communities opened during the quarter and we are pleased with it and we are going to continue to drive community openings for the remainder of the year.
Great and then last question just you talked about the accelerated community growth in the second half of the year will lot of it be focused on the west as it was here in the first quarter? Right on a percentage basis we expect the west and the southwest regions to be the highest increases on a percentage basis in net community count by the end of the year.
Central and southwest were both also expecting double digit increases in averages but really focused mostly on the west and southwest as far as count as pure numbers and as well as percentage increase.
Great thank you.
Hey this is actually [inaudible] filling in for Bob.
Thanks for taking my question.
Touching back on what was just discussed about the west region having some for the biggest increase in community count and then just looking at deliveries also is there a reason to believe that once that turns around and you start to have a pick-up in the west that it could be a big driver of gross margin improvement so are margins in the west higher than they would be elsewhere given your focus on your higher income buyer there? Well overtime certainly the California margins have been higher certainly in dollars if not also in percent and a lot of it has to do with what the mix is at that point in time.
How many California communities come online and how many in Texas and it will be the blend of the book at that time but it typically our California communities do carry a higher margins.
I referred in my comments to an inflection point and if you think about it we've been battling through for the last few quarters this dynamic were we were called out with the old and in with the new.
And we sold through and delivered through many communities in inland California while the coastal communities were taking longer to bring online.
And then when they come online you are not going to let him run fast.
You meter out your sales so it was a unit comp that dropped and also a revenue comp that would be… What's now occurring is this inflection point where we've powered through that bridge and we bridged the gap of the trough here and now you will see our trajectory go up in California and community comp growth unit growth and a significant ASP growth.
So we have a nice combo going forward that will bring a lot of gross margin.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
And then last question here on with the increase in community count and the rising prices it looks like you are well positioned for the spring selling season.
Now looking pace sales pace and are you comfortable with the current sales pace across the portfolio or are you going to try to drive that higher.
Yes and yes we call it optimizing the asset and if it's a location that has a high lot count that you can replace or run a higher unit sales pace typically those are in the less land-constrained areas.
And if it’s [at Wisden South Cal] or Berryessa up in San Jose we're going to meter the sales out because it's what I call a jewel box you can't replace it.
So you are going to mine it for all the margins that you can get.
Historically typically we're on much higher sales paces than you've seen from us in the last few years.
And in part we have to get back to profits.
We've done that.
We're at a scale that can sustain profits and right now it's about improving our profitability per unit and our top line.
So we'll stay focused on the balance of best price for best pace in each community.
Great thank you.
Hi guys this is actually [Freda Joan] on for Steve.
Thanks for taking my question.
The first question I had was on land spend which was pretty high in the quarter at about $354 million I mean that's about 80% of revenues I am just noticing the cadence of land spend that you had in 2013 when it was similar like an 80% type of home building revenues in the first quarter kind of moderating throughout the year how can we read into what land spend is likely going to look like in '14? Are you going to spend less or more than the $1.2 billion you've done? Right I think when you look at we were about $10 million higher than last year in the first quarter and a lot of it just comes down opportunities and the pace of development.
So as we're phasing it out and we're looking at new land acquisition opportunities we don't specifically look to spend a higher percentage in one quarter over the other.
Obviously we have full year budgets that we work to but as far as the quarter-over-quarter look it's more about opportunities.
Once we have the lands on the books we look to aggressively develop it.
During the quarter we had over $130 million at development investment contained in that number which outpaced last year and I guess that was a significant difference between 2014 first quarter and 2013 first quarter where we actually had higher development spend in last year and lower acquisition spend.
As far as pegging it for the full year we're going to continue to see how markets develop for us and what it looks like out there and the external environment.
The land spend that we did put in place last year as you noted over $1.1 billion was more than double what we had spent in 2012 and that was done with intent as we wanted to get our community count growth back on-track and as we saw the right opportunities in the marketplace.
So we'll continue to monitor that as we go.
At this point obviously based on our first quarter spend we are very successful in identifying opportunities and very optimistic about the growth that that will provide to us in the future.
Okay great.
And just turning attention towards sort of ASPs the average square footage increased about 8% year-over-year.
So you could say that maybe your price was in the range of 5% looking through where ASPs can go throughout the balance of the year how much do you think is going to be more on the size more on the mix versus the price? Right it’s a difficult metric I mean to compare in that terms because what we’re talking about doing is opening a significant amount of new communities this year which we’ll be delivering out in to the third and fourth quarters as well as some of the new communities that we had opened in the last year that are really determining the ASP.
So a lot of its just mix related.
As I mentioned during the prepared remarks we do believe that we will still have a high single-digit or low double-digit year-over-year increase in our ASP by the time it wraps up for the full year and we’re off to a really good start with a 12% increase in the first quarter but as we continue to emphasize we do believe a majority of our increases really coming from our community positioning and where we’re placing communities getting a higher income buyers they are selecting more options in our studios the underlying land is obviously more expensive they are paying higher price points for their product and its helping to generate better margins and obviously continuing to enhance and accelerate our ASP.
So that’s how we really see the rest of the year shaping up.
Okay great thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Jack Micenko from SIG.
Your line is open.
Hi guys.
Thanks for your update on the mortgage JV thinking about that going forward as that JV closes is it right to think that structurally there may be a different profit model for that business on your income statement going forward or will it be more from a traditional sort of caps rate gain on sale margin adjustment or is there? Should we think about maybe more financial service revenue as that JV comes through later in the year? Jack we definitely have shared that in the past as our expectation that it’s a revenue and profit driver.
It's been a little frustrating to try to get through the regulatory maze and it reminded me of how difficult it is to be a mortgage company as Nationstar has been working on it.
But once it’s fully deployed and capture rates are up it will be a profit and revenue driver.
Probably more importantly for me as the operator it will give us a better delivery stream because they perform well.
In the venture we expect capture rates to go up and they are far more predictable than many of the other lenders that our buyers have selected.
I don't know if you want to add any other color on that the financial impact on it.
No I think as we’ve talked about modeling in that.
We used to have a joint venture obviously 50:50 very similar to how this going to be structured.
As Jeff mentioned it is very much related to closings and if you look back at when we have a joint venture model that we were employing in our business it will be very similar to that.
Okay great.
And then just to get clarify you definitely think you’re going to be able to reverse all the DTA evaluation allowance this year or that is how we should think about it?  We said a significant portion of it and between utilization for the remainder of the year so obviously we’re offsetting some of the DTAs as we are having profitable quarters for the remainder of the year and then we believe we have a very significant reverse in the fourth quarter and I think that’s quite a proper way to look at it.
There may be another piece that we’ll take back in 2015 as we continue to evaluate but we are not done with all the précised calculations but we are very confident in a significant reversal by the year end.
Okay thank you.
Your next question comes from Adam Rudiger from Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Thanks for taking my question.
There is so much focus on weather and given your footprint I'm guessing you were less adversely impacted by weather than your peers.
So my question is do you think your quarter was relatively clean of weather if that’s a right word to use? Adam there was some weather impact in a few of our businesses but not much all our Colorado business was hurt a little and DC.
Other than that maybe some extent Raleigh but those are lesser percentage and I think it reinforced due to the majority of our business being in the Sunbelt where less exposed to weather.
I think it did rain three days in the quarter in SoCal.
So we may have lost an hour or two of production but it’s a nice footprint to have when it comes to the winter time of the year.
Okay.
My second question is more a theoretical one as it relates to first time buyer you know I know that you said about half your business was first time buyer but it was higher priced first time buyer so maybe not the traditional first time buyer that everyone is talking about that's absent from the market.
So the question relates to the availability of product for the more lower income first time buyer is all the discussion about the absence of that buyer related to a supply is there no product or do you think it’s demand driven and how do you think that plays out in terms of driving the recovery the next couple of years? Well one of the things that we have demonstrated in our business model is the ability to move to where demand is and with the mortgage headwinds and the lack of job growth and everything else that we dealt with through this housing cycle and now into recovery the typical first time buyer got recap they were out of the market so there is no demand there and we found a way to go flex up and change product and move as quickly as we could to where the demand was.
In my view in order to have a full sustained typical housing recovery we have to get the traditional first time buyer back.
It will take job growth and it will take fulsome mortgage underwriting when that occurs if the demand is there and things pencil we can quickly go right back to meeting the demands of that buyer while at the same time sustaining the business that we’re now putting together that’s working so well.
We’ll flex and go where the demand is.
So you think that you and your some of your other competitors have also moved up price a bit so do you think when there’s job and the demand comes back at a price point of the industry can pan quickly offer that kind of supply that’s needed? Yes.
Okay.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Okay thanks again everyone for joining us on the call.
We’re excited about our momentum and where our year is heading and we look forward to sharing progress as the year unfolds.
Thank you and have a great day.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning.
My name is Rob and I will be your conference operator today.
I would like to welcome everyone to the KB Home 2014 Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Today’s conference is being recorded and a live webcast is available on KB Home’s website at kbhome.com.
Following the company’s opening remarks we will open the line for questions.
(Operator Instructions) KB Home’s discussion today may include forward-looking statements that reflect management’s current views and expectations of market conditions future events and the company’s business performance.
These statements are not guarantees of future results and the company does not undertake any obligation to update them.
Due to a number of factors outside of its control including those identified in its SEC filings the company’s actual results could be materially different from those expressed and/or implied by the forward-looking statements.
A reconciliation of non-GAAP measures referenced during today’s discussion to their most directly comparable GAAP measures can be found in the company’s earnings release issued earlier today and/or on the Investor Relations page of the company’s website.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Chief Executive Officer for KB Home Mr.
Jeff Mezger.
Mr.
Mezger you may begin.
Thank you Rob and thank you everyone for joining us today for a review of our second quarter results.
With me are Jeff Kaminski our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Bill Hollinger our Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer; and Thad Johnson our Vice President and Treasurer.
Today I will begin with an overview of our performance for the quarter.
I will then provide an update on the progress we have made on our three key initiatives and how we are continuing to drive our profitable growth trajectories.
We are proud of our performance in the second quarter as we continue to build momentum.
Once again we improved in all of our key financial metrics which reinforces that our strategy is working.
We are achieving our growth targets and continue to enhance our execution to further improve profitability.
We remain on offense and are continuing to invest in land to support future growth.
We are now consistently putting points on our strategic scoreboard for growth and profitability and are winning.
This is a new chapter at KB Home.
We have restored solid profitability and are well-positioned strategically.
We look forward to capturing additional profit opportunities in the current housing environment which is characterized by steady yet moderate growth at levels which vary dramatically in strength from city to city.
After I share comments on our strategy and a macro view of housing Jeff Kaminski will provide details on our financial results.
Then I will provide concluding remarks before opening the call up for your questions.
As I have already said we are very pleased with our improved performance in the second quarter.
Let me share some of the highlights with you.
Revenues for the quarter increased to $565 million and net income rose to $27 million.
Our average selling price was $319 700 a 10% increase over the prior year.
We improved our operating margin by 440 basis points year-over-year.
Our gross profit margin rose 380 basis points to 18.9% and we reduced our SG&amp;A ratio to 12.8%.
Both of these results were our best performance for a second quarter since 2006.
Net order value increased 19% year-over-year to $763 million on a net order unit increase of 5% our quarter end backlog value increased by 24% year-over-year to just over $1 billion reinforcing our expectation that our favorable trajectory will continue.
Our solid financial improvement in the second quarter is a direct result of our strategic shift to highly desirable and land constrained submarkets that support both higher prices and higher margins.
We are seeing the impact of the successful repositioning of our communities reflected in our average selling price which increased 10% to $319 000 marking the seventh consecutive year-over-year quarter of double-digit growth.
By opening communities in more desirable submarkets and introducing products that resonate with higher income consumers we have been able to materially shift our product mix to higher price bands while maintaining a strong sales pace and achieving significant revenue growth.
An important point is that our community repositioning is working across all four regions.
This is illustrated in our quarter end backlog value of over $1 billion an increase of approximately $200 million or 24% on a 9% backlog unit growth.
California is a great example of our strategy at work.
During the quarter our net order value per unit was just over $591 000 an increase of about $92 000 over the prior year.
Within the Northern California portion of the region a decline in net orders from the Central Valley in Sacramento was offset by an equal sized 38% increase in net orders in the Bay Area where prices and margins are significantly higher.
As a result of our success in repositioning our community mix net order unit value in California reached an all-time high in the second quarter.
Our Central region which includes Texas and Colorado is our second largest region by revenue and reported solid growth in markets that feature vibrant economies.
In the current quarter net order value in the region increased by 26% while net orders rose 12% year-over-year.
With the quarter end backlog value of over $400 million the highest level of any region Central is positioned to become a meaningful revenue and profit contributor over the second half of the year.
In both the Southeast and Southwest regions we generated positive sales value growth and ended the quarter with a backlog value in place that was up appreciably over the prior year.
In the Southwest we are looking forward to the July grand opening of multiple product lines at our Inspirada master plan community in Las Vegas which we believe offers an incredible growth opportunity for many years.
At the same time we are expanding our community presence in Arizona which had a positive impact on our backlog comp as well.
In the Southeast while units and backlog were flat at quarter end our backlog value was up almost 14% providing another example of our community positioning at work.
Going forward as our community count growth accelerates across all four regions both our net orders and deliveries should accelerate as well.
Having said that as a result of the success of our product and community positioning we expect that our revenue growth will continue to outpace our unit growth.
Let me now provide updates on our progress with our three key initiatives to increase community count grow revenue per community and enhance profitability per unit.
All three of these initiatives help fuel our success in the quarter and will continue to be key drivers of growth and profitability going forward.
As a result of our increased land investment we expect our community count to continue to grow.
Since we announced that we are going on offense in mid-2012 we have opened roughly 190 communities and our average community count is now up 17% from the low point in the third quarter of 2012.
We expect our community growth to accelerate in the second half of the year with more than 80 community openings planned.
Our second strategic initiative is to grow revenue per community and we are achieving this through a nice combination of our product mix capturing higher ASPs while maintaining one of the highest sales rates per community in the peer group.
We will continue to focus on the balance of price versus pace in each community in order to optimize the returns on every asset.
Our third initiative is to enhance profit per unit.
And as I have shared with you on many calls our built-to-order process offers both revenue opportunities and cost efficiencies.
On the revenue side as we continue to attract higher income consumers we are capturing additional revenue through premiums on preferred lots structural floor plan options and exterior elevations.
We have also been on offense with our design studios through both opening additional stores and expanding the size of existing while introducing new product displays that resonate with today’s consumers.
We are finding new ways to capture additional revenue per unit as we expand the array of appealing choices available to our customers.
In our business model where a consumer is selecting their home on their lot with only the features they value they are willing to pay more for this benefit.
On the cost side with our backlog growing we are now in a position to capture more of the efficiencies made possible by inflow production.
In addition with our larger scale combined with our standardized product series and value engineering we are constantly identifying opportunities to lower our cost of built helping to offset the labor and material cost pressures the industry has been facing.
We also remain committed to containing our overhead costs while growing our top line as we leverage our growth platform for further SG&amp;A improvements.
At our quarterly Division Presidents Meeting earlier this month we spent an entire day exploring opportunities to grow profit margins and our time together was high-energy and very productive.
When you operate with one business model across the system it is easier to introduce new ideas and deploy best practices quickly that can help grow revenues and improve margins.
Through our collective efforts we will continue to push toward our stated goal of a gross margin over 20% and an operating income margin in excess of 10%.
Typically at this point on the call I would now discuss trends in the macro economy and housing.
You have all seen the economic models that suggest a slow and steady recovery as ongoing.
There were many favorable data reports this week that reinforce that the housing recovery is proceeding.
Consumer confidence reached its highest level since 2008.
Resales were reported at a healthy annualized rate of 4.9 million units while resale inventory levels remain in balance.
On Tuesday new home sales were reported at an annualized rate of over 500 000 the highest level in many years.
And as just reported yesterday by the Labor Department that the private sector has grown 200 000 jobs per month for the last four months in a row a leading indicator of future demand.
Meanwhile interest rates remain at historically low ranges supporting favorable affordability levels.
While mortgage underwriter remains tight we are seeing signs of loosening among the mortgage companies.
And in our served markets we are beginning to see evidence of the reemergence of the first-time homebuyer.
While these favorable trends are very encouraging it is still going to take some time until we reach historical new home activity levels.
As a result many outlooks on the housing industry are measured but we are optimistic as we are building a real growth story in the current environment.
As I always maintain homebuilding is a local business and as our business has evolved we are really operating today in two distinct market environments that are being driven by different dynamics.
The first is in the highly desirable markets such as Costal California which are driven by strong demand due to large populations and very low inventory.
In these land-constrained densely populated areas where it is very difficult to bring new communities to market our strategy is working quite well.
In these areas there is a price driven recovery.
And as prices continue to increase this trend will spread to adjacent areas with more readily available buildable land.
While I use Coastal California as the example this dynamic exists in the most desirable areas of many of the cities in which we operate.
The second market dynamic that we are targeting features the more traditional demand we are seeing in Texas Orlando or Denver fueled by employment and population growth.
It is in these markets with their more traditional recovery where we are starting to see the reemergence of the first-time buyer a critical consumer segment necessary to assure a broad based housing recovery.
The important takeaway is that our business model allows us to move with demand and by leveraging our strengths we feel that we have real role growth stories emerging in both market scenarios.
The buyer of $160 000 KB Home in Houston is responding just as favorably to our core value proposition as the buyer of $1.6 million KB Home in Northern California.
We execute equally well on delivering a built-to-order experience in either location.
This is our roadmap in today’s environment.
We move with demand.
While advancing our strategic initiatives we are well positioned to fuel our growth engine in the coming years.
Our local land teams continue to identify opportunities in premium locations that are aligned with our product and price point strategy and that meet our financial underwriting criteria.
I was happy to host many of you on the call today at our investor conference last month where we were able to showcase our two product lines at Playa Vista on the west side of Los Angeles.
Some of you shared that it helped you appreciate that our Coastal business is different and is a key differentiator for us.
Playa Vista is located a mile from the beach in an extremely desirable and land constrained area.
What those in attendance who are able to experience was a sophisticated product presentation that at $1.5 million is affordable by Westside standards.
With decades of experience in our own backyard we are leaders in acquiring communities in the highly land constrained Coastal California market.
I would like to share two significant California acquisitions we made in the second quarter that featured desirable and land constrained submarkets similar to Playa Vista.
Patterson Ranch located in Fremont California is a perfect example of the types of investments we are pursuing.
This is a 500 lot fully entitled property in the East Bay with convenient commuter access to both the Silicon Valley and Sam Francisco and is located in what many view as the strongest housing market in the country.
We have been operating in Fremont for decades.
We understand the city and how to successfully do business there.
We were very familiar with this particular property and the seller new we would perform.
It was a relationship driven transaction.
Similarly in Southern California we acquired 278 finished or partially finished lots in the Plum Canyon area of Santa Clarita a highly desirable suburb of Los Angeles.
We had specifically identified these lots as a very desirable opportunity located across the street from one of our own active communities.
Once again we have operated in Santa Clarita for decades an area that is highly desirable land constrained and considered to have one of the strongest job markets and best school systems in the state.
We were able to acquire this property due to our relationships and expertise in Santa Clarita which we have built over the last 30 years.
We announced this acquisition in early May and we have already started models in this new location.
I wanted to share some of the specifics behind these two exceptional acquisitions due to their size and very land-constrained locations and the positive impact they will have on our results in 2015.
I could have just as easily shared successful acquisitions that have occurred in many of our other cities such as Denver Houston Phoenix or Jacksonville.
We have seasoned land teams on the ground across this system who are strategically utilizing our business model tools and their local knowledge relationships and expertise to identify the right types of acquisitions and drive the right kind of profitable growth.
This is why we are continuing to find compelling investments opportunities.
Why we already own or control the lots we need to support our 2015 growth targets we continue to see incremental opportunities for upside.
At the same time our primary focus now is on meeting our needs for 2016 and beyond.
Another key KB Home differentiator is our industry leadership and energy efficiency.
We are committed to lowering the total cost of home ownership through introducing new more efficient technologies.
We have made incredible progress in a few short years and consumers are responding to the value offered by our extremely efficient homes.
According to the EPA the homeowners of 82 000 ENERGY STAR homes that we have now delivered saved an aggregate of $24 million on utility bills just in 2013.
We know leading on energy efficiency pays dividends for our company.
It appeals to our homeowners.
It is good for the communities we operate in.
It is good for our shareholders and our employees and it’s good for the environment.
We also strongly believe the water will continue to become more scarce and costly in the years to come.
And as a result we are expanding our efforts in water conservation with products like the greywater recycling system we shared on our last earnings call.
We are constantly challenging ourselves as to how we can improve the efficiency of our homes without materially increasing the cost to the homeowner.
Our common business model allows us to standardize products and leverage economies of scale to reduce cost and make these energy efficient features more affordable to our homebuyers.
Our KB Home design studios also serve as consumer laboratories where we present and explain energy conservation choices and benefits to the consumer and in turn monitor interest and willingness to pay for any given feature.
I believe our leadership in this area is a key differentiator for KB Home and is one of the reasons we achieved one of the highest sales rates per community in the industry.
Now I would like to provide an update on our progress in launching Home Community Mortgage our jointly owned venture with our preferred lender Nationstar.
I am pleased to report that we have finally secured the necessary regulatory approvals and have commenced the rollout.
In this challenging credit environment streamlining the mortgage process offers a great benefit to our customers.
We anticipate that launching Home Community Mortgage will align our two companies’ respective interest and we expect to see the venture capturing a high percentage of our customers’ mortgage business while providing superior levels of customer satisfaction.
With the high capture rate and consistent execution we expect more predictable deliveries.
Down the road Home Community Mortgage should also provide a material income stream for our company.
As I have stated we are very encouraged by our progress during the quarter which reinforces that our strategy is working.
We have entered a new chapter at KB Home where we are positioned today for significant growth and as housing markets continued to recover we anticipate even greater opportunities.
Now I will turn the call over to Jeff Kaminski who will go through our financial results.
Jeff? Thank you Jeff and good morning.
We are pleased with the earnings improvement and continued progress across our core financial and operational metrics that we achieved during the quarter.
In addition to year-over-year growth in revenues and operating margin we generated significant increases in both our net order value which was up 19% and quarter end backlog value which at more than $1 billion was 24% higher than a year ago.
These results support our performance expectations for both the third and fourth quarters of this year.
To help sustain the performance improvements we made in the second quarter we also continued our aggressive strategic investment in land and land development to support future growth in both open communities and top line revenues in the remainder of 2014 and beyond.
During the second quarter 2014 net income grew to $26.6 million or $0.27 per diluted share representing a substantial improvement from the same period a year ago.
Higher revenues driven by a rising average selling price combined with improvements in both our housing gross profit margin and our SG&amp;A expense ratio were the main drivers of our earnings growth in the quarter.
Second quarter revenues totaled $565 million up 8% from $524 million in the year earlier quarter.
This top line growth was fueled by an increase of more than $52 million or 43% in the central region.
Revenues in the Southwest and Southeast regions were essentially flat year-over-year and the West Coast region was down about 5% compared to an exceptionally strong Q2 2013 when regional revenues more than doubled versus 2012.
For the second half of the year we expect our West Coast region to generate higher revenues compared to the second half of 2013 as both our regional unit deliveries and average selling price are expected to increase.
The increase in current quarter revenues was driven by continued growth in our overall average selling price which climbed to nearly $320 000 representing a year-over-year increase of 10% or more than $29 000 per home.
This marks the seventh consecutive quarter of double-digit year-over-year percentage growth in our ASP.
Our higher average selling price is a direct result of strategically shifting our land investments toward highly desirable submarkets that generally feature higher medium household income levels strong demand including demand for larger homes and low inventory of homes available for sale.
All four homebuilding regions reported strong growth in average selling prices with increases ranging from 9% in our Southeast region to over 23% in our Southwest region.
While we expect continued year-over-year improvement we reiterate guidance shared on prior earnings calls that we expect our ASP growth to moderate during the latter half of 2014 in the range of high single-digit to low double-digit percentage growth.
Our current ASP trends reflect the favorable impact of our 2012 going on offense initiative to strategically reposition our land assets and our complementary emphasis on growing revenues in each open community in our targeted submarkets.
These steps along with refining our products to meet consumer demand and generating continued growth in design studio revenues from our higher income buyers have boosted our average selling prices over the past several quarters while enhancing our margins.
During the quarter our results also continued to reflect the success of our focus on enhancing profitability per unit as we realized improvements in both our housing gross profit margin and our SG&amp;A expense ratio.
Our gross profit margin increased to 18.9% for the second quarter 2014 as compared to 15.1% for the same period the prior year.
Our adjusted housing gross profit margin improved 70 basis points from 18.2% in the second quarter of 2013 marking the sixth consecutive quarter of year-over-year improvement as we work to drive this metric above 20%.
Turning now to selling general and administrative expense as a result of our ongoing efforts to control costs and improve operational efficiency we lowered our SG&amp;A as a percent of housing revenues by 60 basis points during the current quarter versus the same period last year.
This brought our selling general and administrative expense ratio to 12.8% the lowest second quarter ratio since 2006 when revenues were nearly $2.2 billion.
We believe we can leverage our operating business model to drive further expense efficiency as well as additional improvement in our SG&amp;A ratio as we generate increased deliveries and higher revenues by expanding our community count.
As Jeff said increasing our community count is one of our three key strategic initiatives and is at the core of our efforts to grow our business.
We are successfully launching new communities while laying the foundation for even more grand openings in 2015 and beyond.
During the quarter we opened 42 new communities and closed out of 36.
Our average community count was 191 during Q2 2014 versus 178 during the same period the prior year marking a 7% year-over-year increase.
With 71 new community openings during the first two quarters of this year we are currently on track to reach our target of opening over 150 new communities during 2014 including the reactivation of approximately 15 communities previously held for future development.
Combined with a forecasted decline in closeouts particularly in the fourth quarter we are also still on track to achieve our previous guidance of 220 to 230 open communities as of the end of the year.
To support our future community count goals we invested $505 million during the quarter in land acquisition and development.
For the first half of 2014 our investments have totaled $860 million up from $575 million a year ago.
Moving forward we believe our significant investment in land and land development will fuel our future growth.
We continue to aggressively invest development dollars into land that we own and we are still finding attractive land acquisition opportunities to support our continued expansion within the markets we currently serve.
We now expect our full year investment in land acquisition development to be approximately $1.6 billion which is at the higher end of the range of our prior guidance.
We remain confident that our improved performance our current and expected future profitability and generally favorable housing market trends support our anticipated reversal of a significant amount of our deferred tax asset valuation allowance prior to the end of the year.
We are projecting that this will be a fourth quarter event for the company which will significantly increase our book value and substantially improve our net debt to capital ratio to less than 60%.
At the end of the second quarter the DTA valuation allowance was $844 million.
In conclusion we are pleased with the broad and continued improvement we are observing in our operating and financial metrics and are committed to executing on our strategic initiatives in order to accelerate future growth in revenues and earnings.
Now I will turn the call back over to Jeff Mezger for his concluding comments.
Thanks Jeff.
Before concluding this morning’s call I would like to recognize the hard work of all of our employees at KB Home who come in each day with energy and commitment to advancing our results.
In summary we are solidly profitable and we are gaining momentum.
Our business model investment strategy and community positioning are working.
We are successfully growing revenue through a combination of higher ASPs while sustaining one of the top sales rates per community in the industry.
We plan to open more than 80 communities in the second half of the year which should increase net orders and unit deliveries.
Our balance sheet will be significantly enhanced with our expected fourth quarter reversal of our DTA and we intend to continue investing strategically to support future profitable growth.
We look forward to capturing the tremendous opportunities ahead of us.
Thank you all for your time and attention today.
And now we’ll be happy to open it up for your questions.
Rob? Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
Our first question is from the line of Michael Rehaut with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone and nice quarter.
Thanks Mike.
The first question I had was on gross margins you continue to have some nice progression there and the second quarter number was a little bit better than we were looking for and I’d venture to say general expectations.
So I was hoping you could kind of give us a sense Jeff perhaps what drove the sequential improvement from 1Q to 2Q if there was any regional mix there or if it was just further execution of either pricing etcetera and certainly just any thoughts in terms of that you continue to expect further expansion from these levels as we get into 3Q and 4Q? Well Mike yes I can provide some details on that.
First of all on the sequential it’s basically what we have been talking about for quite some time I mean it’s the communities that are driving it.
The openings versus the close outs and also progression with communities that were open both quarters so at that level for our sequential improvement there is nothing that really stands out as a huge one-off driver it’s just continuing the path we have been on.
The 18.9% we just reported on adjusted basis was the sixth consecutive quarter of improvement.
And I think significantly as we look at it the dollars per delivery the gross margin dollars at over $60 000 in the quarter was the highest since the third quarter 2006.
So we have been pretty pleased with the progression for the rest of the year.
I think we will continue to see sequential improvement in both the third and fourth quarter.
And I would expect to be let’s say in 19s in both of those quarters which at least is very close to our initial goal of getting to the 20%.
And like we are all saying I mean we are facing some headwinds out there in both material and labor cost inflation as well as some level of increasing land costs but up until now we have proven that we have been able to overcome those factors as we continue to close that gap against our own targets.
So and we are pretty optimistic on that and like the trends we are seeing.
We are also seeing support for that in our backlog margins.
That’s great.
I appreciate that.
And I guess second question for Jeff Mezger as there are two Jeffs I have to distinguish.
Jeff you mentioned that in your opening remarks that there was evidence of a reemergence of the first-time buyer and I was hoping you could expand on that a little bit in terms of that if that’s something you are seeing in your own business itself and particularly given that you continue to perhaps shift to maybe away from the historically traditional first-time buyer more of a financially – more financially a stronger type of first time buyer that’s more financially able and more perhaps the move up community so I was just wondering if this was something that you kind of saw specifically within your own business or if it was more just kind of general comments as it relates to perhaps mortgage lending standards or other trends that you see out there? Mike it’s part of why I split it into the two different business dynamics we are dealing with today.
In the higher income land constrained areas I don’t know that our first-time buyer mix has changed.
It’s a different first-time buyer I know it’s a higher income buyer than we would have seen 10 years ago.
What I was trying to point out in the cities pick Texas City because all four of the larger cities has solid job growth and real population growth going on today.
And it’s because of the job growth we are seeing more first-time buyers.
They are not – it’s a well heeled first-time buyer but it’s not the high income first-time buyer like you would see in Orange County or up in the Santa Clara County.
So I think it’s because you have job growth going on in those cities and that’s within our own business we are seeing this.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Eli Hackel with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks and good morning.
You have talked about tremendous upside just remaining in the current markets so I am not going to new ones you clearly are getting a lot of SG&amp;A leverage could you talk about SG&amp;A leverage as your community count growth accelerates given the land investment that you have done? I can make some high level comments Eli and then I can kick it to Jeff for any numbers he wants to share.
If you think about we have walked through this trajectory of community counts accelerating as we come out of the year and you always have cost incurred in your SG&amp;A before you get to the revenue down the road.
So we have been able to continued to contain costs even with this ramp up that’s occurring and have been able to improve our SG&amp;A ratio while carrying some load for the future growth.
So it’s a reflection on our commitment to keeping things in balance and you touched on another side of it where the markets that we are in today one time we did over 25 000 houses.
So our strategy right now is to continue to grow larger businesses where we are at our current market footprint and continued to leverage SG&amp;A just like you saw in the second quarter.
And to add to that I guess just a little bit on our increasing revenues how we generally think of it is on increase in revenues we have about a 5% variable cost component included in our SG&amp;A.
And that’s basically there to cover things like commissions and other related costs of new communities.
So we do and we have shown that with our results achieve tremendous leverage as we are increasing that top line and increasing the top line through community count is really the path to stronger bottom line profits for us.
Great.
And then maybe just one follow-up on the community count growth you talked about a measurable increase in ‘15 there is a potential to give us a magnitude of ‘15 growth versus ‘14 growth clearly you have had a lot of land development spend and land acquisition over the past 12 to 24 months? Right right.
Well I think first of all just talking about 2014 for a moment.
What we have seen in the first two quarters we saw 10% up in the first quarter.
We are up 7% in the second quarter.
Our expectation right now for the third quarter is around that same pace call it high single-digits maybe hitting 10% in Q3.
Q4 will see an acceleration in that I would say would be somewhere in the mid-teens maybe even high-teens and these are averages.
So when we look at it we look beginning and at quarter end we just have a 2 point average.
So on an average basis we will drive it higher.
We are still on pace as we mentioned earlier to hit our end of year target where we expect that end of year to be 15% to 20% up versus the end of 2013.
And that’s pretty important as it relates to 2015 first quarter because now we have a beginning number that’s already at least we believe is at least 15% higher than the beginning number of the 2014 first quarter.
And we think we can grow it from there.
So particularly in the first half of the year of 2015 where obviously we have our best visibility right now we do expect to see acceleration and we expect to see community count in those quarters closer to what we are seeing in the fourth quarter this year.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Bob Wetenhall of RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hey good morning.
You guys have done a lot of hard work in increasing profitability and delivering on your target so you have been talking about for gross margin performance kind of bumping up in that 19% 20% range how much room can you get through the model the way you are designing it with mix and locating in some very good ASP areas? Can that go to 22 can that go to 24 in the next couple of years? Well go ahead if you got a number.
Yes.
Look we really haven’t guided out a couple of years out.
I mean what we talked about right now is an initial target within the company and we believe that very much.
I mean when we were negative operating earnings our initial target was positive operating earnings and it was positive net income.
Now it’s driving expansion in the operating earnings margin and in our net income and same thing on the margin side.
Our initial targets is 20% and we feel confident we are going to get there.
I do believe there is more room to expand beyond that.
Our highs in the prior cycle are well above that.
And when you look at normalized rates in prior cycles we were in basically the low to mid 20s.
So I do believe there is the ability to get there.
We are continuing to very carefully balance pace and price and you can see it in our sales absorptions.
On a year-over-year basis for example this quarter we are down 2%.
On a per community basis it was like one-tenth of a sale per community per month in the quarter.
So we have been very carefully balancing that and really emphasizing the margin side of the business.
We think it’s important for the health of the business going forward.
And we will continue to strive to achieve these higher margins we can go to but like I said normalized it’s higher than the 20%.
We are very confident with the 20% as our annual target.
Glad to hear that.
If you could give a little bit more color or granularity on the new mortgage structure it seems like it allows you guys to have a little bit better control over your own destiny by putting things in your hands? Would this also have a P&amp;L impact and what do you think it does strategically for the company? Thanks.
Bob I touched on that in my comments and it’s a basically 50:50.
They are the managing partner.
And as I shared it we know it will help our predictability of deliveries because you will have a mortgage partner that you can trust when they commit to doing something that they will perform and they have been doing that even today in our marketing relationship.
So you have a good business partner.
You will have better visibility on buyers closing dates which gives the salespeople confidence and with consistently in underwriting.
The salespeople will have confidence when they are writing contracts whether the buyer is going to qualify or not.
So I think it will actually help our sales as well and we will see how that plays out.
But in the past in our previous venture it became a profit stream for the company and that’s not the primary purpose the primary purpose is to control your business better and have a predictable delivery and raise the customer satisfaction with the consumer and that’s our top priorities.
But we expect it down the road it should bring income into company as the JV matures.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Ivy Zelman Zelman &amp; Associates.
Please proceed with your question.
Good afternoon guys.
Good quarter.
Maybe on the same vein Jeff if you can chat a little bit about the specifics on underwriting you mentioned that you are seeing some easing with respect to the mortgage availability maybe you can give us some specifics and what you are seeing as compared to others that are not seeing as much but that’s the first question.
And secondly as you are incrementally adding to your land position you talked about the two different types of markets land constrained markets and higher priced versus what’s driven by the entry level consumer coming in with job growth maybe when you think about the land market what percent would say is being more acquired for that more entry level type product offering versus the more affluent higher end? So those are my questions.
Thank you.
Thanks Ivy.
On the mortgage side you can see it even in the bonds that are being pooled right now.
The FICO scores are coming down.
They are still not to normalized levels if you think of the what the agencies allow and whether it’s FHA or GSE so 680 is a pretty good FICO score.
The pools are still 720 730 but they are down from 750 or 760.
So the FICO scores are coming down a little bit.
And anecdotally with some of the mortgage companies we have done business with their overlays are easing.
And I think the more clarity that is out there on QM and QRM and the put back risk and reserves and everything that’s coming to a head right now.
They are coming to the close on writing all those.
I think as you see more clarity it should continue to loosen up.
As far as what you call first-time buyer communities which I would call first-time first move up and move down is just a different price point in a more readily available land market I will call it.
And we see opportunities in both because of the land constraint in the higher priced areas I think you will see in the future more growth as the markets recover.
You will see more were community investment in the more traditional markets.
We are going to continue to chase everything that we can in these land-constrained areas.
And it’s hard to answer that because the land-constrained areas also come with a higher price per acre or higher price per lot but there is not as many of them.
So I would – I can just say we intend to field both of them and think we have a nice growth trajectory now in either market segment.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line Stephen Kim with Barclays.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks very much guys.
I had a question regarding the use of land options as you go forward obviously the move towards more desirable land constrained parcels usually we think of those as being parcels where if you try to tie them up your options usually you have to put more earnest money down.
Internally your company has not actually put a lot of earnest money down as percentage of total purchase price so we are kind of curious to see if you could sort of talk about are you intending to sort of change that in anyway what kind of levels of deposits or earnest money should we be expecting from the company going forward? Thanks.
Are you talking – Steve are you talking about the consumer on land deals you confused me with the question? Sorry land deals.
Okay.
Well every deal is going to have a different story it’s kind of interesting.
I keep talking about this relationships are very critical in the terms of deals and the types of businesses you can put together.
And if you think about Irvine as an example where we have a great business relationship with them and we have a large presence all of those are option deals in a very land-constrained environment and it’s because of relationship and the trust and the structure that they prefer as sellers.
So you have high-priced lots high-priced product yet you are still getting friendly terms on the deal.
When you go to the Playa Vistas of the world it’s just flat out cash.
You are paying cash for those because there is 20 people lined up behind you that would buy it and the seller doesn’t need to take terms.
So those are the bookends.
Interestingly I have shared in the past we have done some option deals in the Bay Area large acquisitions because of the relationship between the seller and our team.
And at the same time there is other deals we have done up there where we have had to write a check.
So it’s as you get to less land-constrained areas you will see more favorable options and terms and we are open to doing both and primary focus for us is which gives us the highest margin.
The highest margin not necessarily the highest return or in your view are they similar enough that you can collapse that down to a margin analysis? But you have to balance both but if it’s a phase taken it’s buy it six months later you are going to buy it or you can buy it today at a lower price and raise your margin will go for the higher margin.
Got it.
But it’s a balance of both you have to hit your returns on the cash and what gives you the most margin between the different structures.
Sure.
It makes sense.
Jeff do you have a target for actually Jeff Kaminski do you have a target for inventory turnover that we could be thinking about as we go forward? Right now Stephen we are really focused on community count growth and driving that growth through the acquisitions through the strategy where we are putting forward into our model.
At a point in time I do believe we will start ratcheting back on that as we get happier with the trajectory on the growth.
And I think we could share some targets at that point in time.
Thank you.
The next question is from the line of David Goldberg with UBS.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks.
Good morning and thanks for taking the call.
Good morning David.
Good morning.
So my first question was on the design studios and if you could talk about kind of the take per buyer if you have seen any change in that Jeff Mezger you made some – I think some interesting comments beginning about changing some of how you are showing some of the product to emphasize some of the things you found very unique in the KB offering.
Can you just tell us a little bit kind of what’s going on the design studios? Have you seen any change in buyer behavior? And I guess that’s my first question.
Well it’s interesting David because as our business has evolved we have had to operate a different studio approach in the higher priced high income areas than we would in the more median price ranges.
A good example would be down in Irvine where you don’t offer one level of granite counters you would offer six and you – and the consumer will go to level 6 out of the gate whereas in the Inland Empire they may want to upgrade the granite and they are happy with level 1.
And five six seven years ago we may not have had as many high-priced goods offered in the Irvine studio as we do today.
And then out in the more traditional areas it will be a little lower.
And the other interesting thing for us and its shame on us through the downturn and I have shared this before we somewhat neutered our studios and that the intent of the studio was to help you saw house is first and foremost.
And then it should be a profit stream as well.
And in some of the markets where we dropped to a very low volume level and you can’t support a studio we just put them into a double-wide trailer or a garage somewhere which helps you still sell some level of options but as you lose the positive in favorable retail environment to get people excited about selling homes.
And we are hearing anecdotes now that several out of Sacramento for instance were after the opening in the next group of sales half of them visited the studio before they bought a home.
And I just heard one this week in Phoenix where we have opened up a new studio and someone made an appointment for their studio final before they had even contracted on the house.
And we didn’t lose sight of it in the downturn but you have to do what you have to do to to keep your overhead in check.
And as we roll these things out we are seeing them help us on the selling floor as well.
So I think you will hear a lot from us in the future as this continues to evolve and get back to what it was.
Is it fair and we had read something earlier this month about a design studio and a mall environment to try to drive more traffic to the community? Is it fair to say that if that successfully would see more of those kind of opportunities as using the design studio as more of an advertising tool? Absolutely.
It’s no different than another model.
And our Sacramento studio by the way is right across the loop road from a Nordstrom in the number one mall in Sacramento.
So it’s exactly what we did.
And then my question was in terms of the profitability if we kind of think about this divide between the more land constrained areas more coastal areas in California as an example and maybe what would be a little bit more of an inland area? When you think about the uptake for buyer is it significantly different in the design studio and when you think about the profitability you mentioned having the six kind of granite for the move-up buyer is paying a little bit more and maybe a little bit more down market or maybe from a fewer options in the different market? Are the margins on that different as you kind of get back to more of an entry-level buyer over time? And then are the price points or the uptake I guess when we think about it how significant is the difference there? Well I don’t want to get into the specifics of it in terms of one studio versus another but to start with the understanding it’s the same size home whether it’s in the Inland Empire or Irvine or Playa Vista they are both 2 000 feet they are 2 000 feet and there is only so much flooring that goes in and the kitchen is only so big.
What’s interesting about it is that we are seeing a similar percent of the home price in either location so if it’s a $400 000 home in the Inland Empire they may spend $35 000 I don’t know 9%.
And if it’s $800 000 or $900 000 home along the coast they will spend $70 000 or $80 000.
So the percentages are similar.
And what they will do in the higher-priced areas is go to more upgraded product of the same type of component whether its cabinets or the counters or flooring is much higher.
And what we also see more money spent on structural options in the higher-priced areas where they will – they want the accordion doors to the patio or those type of things.
And what it tells you in either case they are designing the home and plan to live in it.
And they are making the home the way they wanted and it’s tied to a budget and now in Inland Empire maybe I want a bigger home or I need another bedroom and level 1 granite and in Irvine it’s given me all the way to the top I want it exactly like the model.
And we always price our studios to be accretive to margin after studio overhead.
So it’s not a drain on our SG&amp;A and it’s typically it will add a little bit to our margins and every $1 000 of studio revenues is critical to us as every $1 000 of home price for lot premium.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Dan Oppenheim of Credit Suisse.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks very much.
You talked a lot about going to the higher price point in especially the first time buyers there are not so affluent but just little higher end some other builders have talked about taking more cost out to bring the ASP down.
Have you given any thought to it and just how do you view it overall? Dan we do both.
In the land-constrained areas the land deal is where it starts the key to your success.
And if its $1 million home on whatever the lot cost is the better you buy the land probably has more impact on the margin then if you take $500 out of the sheet rock bid.
We still go for those things in the coastal area because every dollar is important but it starts with the land deal on the more traditional demand markets as I call it.
Our strategy is to bracket the median income.
And it will go above the median income and depend on how large the submarket is how big the buying pool is we will go a little bit higher than the median but we always target the median.
So there in our view there is a constraint on how much that income that you target can afford.
There is a limit to it.
And we have to keep lowering our cost in those areas because every time you raise price you move away from the market.
So we drive our cost down best we can and in those cases the lot has a much lower percent of the revenue and therefore you have to get it out of your direct.
Got it.
Okay.
And then two early remarks you talked about some of the recent stats and talked about the May new home sales with the increase is that what you saw in terms of your results for May and any color you can offer on June? I can say just in general I will turn it over to Jeff Dan.
But there was a lot of coverage I will say of the spring selling season and what happened this monthly or that month.
We saw a pretty typical rhythm March April May our traffic is up year-over-year very nicely.
There is a lot of buyer interest out there.
And for us the term I have been using it was the most predictable selling quarter I have seen around here where a week in and week out there was a rhythm to it and we continue to balance price and pace.
So I would say it was a solid quarter from month to month.
So I don’t know that will say May was better than April or worse than March.
We had a pretty nice rhythm all the way through.
Right I obviously agree with that.
The traffic trend was nice as Jeff said we were up about 13% on a per community basis for the whole quarter and trends continued into June.
So what we see is – what we saw I think in the second quarter as we made reference earlier to our absorption rate per community on a year-over-year basis was a market that although the absorptions didn’t progress from last year they maintained nicely what we thought was a pretty good pace last year and we were able to achieve higher margins on the sales and certainly on the deliveries in a quarter.
So the market right now is good I wouldn’t say it’s great but what we are seeing in the communities has been pretty consistent performance and certainly nice performance on the traffic side.
I would add we think our traffic levels were up because of the locations were opened and they are typically in areas with higher consumer confidence and stronger economics and market dynamics and that’s probably why our traffic levels were up.
Thank you.
Our final question today is coming from the line of Megan McGrath with MKM Partners.
Please proceed with your question.
Good afternoon or good morning to you.
I would like you to sort of address one of the issues I think that folks get concerned about which is you have aggressively bought land specifically in California over the last couple of years and if that market slows I think there is some concern that you could see a squeeze on your margin if you aren’t able to raise price so can you talk about your ability to continue to raise price or keep prices steady in California outside of any product mix benefits? Sure Megan I have to keep reiterating this.
It is a very very local business and interestingly in the land constrained areas where we are investing take the Fremont deal as an example.
The price points for our product are much closer to resale medians than the price for new product out in the lesser submarkets.
We actually are closer to median than the median incomes in the more land constrained areas because you have such large populations and such depths of demand with no product out there.
Where we tend to see softening when the market turns as the communities that are in a B minus location where job growth isn’t there yet and people as prices may adjust they have a choice of move to closer end but take that flyer community as an example.
The people that are buying there they don’t even know there is any kind of an economic issue.
They feel good about things.
They have a good job.
They have solid incomes.
And the other thing I would add the things that we are opening today are part of what’s been a frustration for me that we are attacking if the time to get things open has extended.
And a lot of things that we are opening right now were acquired two three years ago and are just now coming to market so everything is performing as we open them and we think our investments are working out nicely.
Great.
Thank you.
And then Jeff just a quick modeling question for you obviously you saw a big decline in interest expense in the last couple of quarters should we expect it to kind of flatten out from these levels or to continue to go down as we move through the year and into 2015? You are modeling on the SG&amp;A ratio? No.
Sorry interest expense? Interest expense yes.
So on the interest if you look at it in the first half of’13 we are about 7.6% in total that’s the combination of the interest expense plus the amortize.
For the full year ’13 we are about 6.7%.
The first half of this year we are up 5.7% so we pulled a couple of points off that first half of ‘13 number.
And I’d say for the full year we will probably be close to right around the range of 5% so almost 2 points off the full year as well.
So hopefully that’s helpful.
Thank you.
At this time we have reached the end of our question-and-answer session.
I will now turn the floor right to Mr.
Jeff Mezger for closing comments.
Okay.
Thanks again Rob and thank you all for joining us today and we look forward to showing more success as the year continues to unfold.
Have a great day and weekend.
This concludes today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and we thank you for your participation.
Good morning.
My name is Manny and I will be your conference operator today.
I would like to welcome everyone to the KB Home 2014 third quarter earnings conference call.
At this time all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Today's conference is being recorded and a live webcast is available on KB Home's website at kbhome.com.
Following the company's opening remarks we will open the lines for questions.
(Operator Instructions).
KB Home's discussion today may include forward-looking statements that reflect management's current views and expectations of market conditions future events and the company's business performance.
These statements are not guarantees of future results and the company does not undertake any obligation to update them.
Due to a number of factors outside of its control including those identified in its SEC filings the company's actual results could be materially different from those expressed and/or implied by the forward-looking statements.
A reconciliation of non-GAAP measures referenced during today's discussion to their most directly comparable GAAP measures can be found in the company's earnings release issued earlier today and/or on the Investor Relations page of the company's website.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Chief Executive Officer for KB Home Mr.
Jeff Mezger.
Mr.
Mezger you may begin.
Thank you Manny.
Good morning everyone and thank you everyone for joining us for a review of our third quarter results.
With me today are Jeff Kaminski Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Bill Hollinger Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer and Thad Johnson Vice President and Treasurer.
I will begin this morning with a high level overview of our results for the quarter.
I will then provide an update on our three key strategic initiatives increasing community count growing revenues per community and enhancing profitability per unit.
Next I will provide some color on our perspective of current economic and housing market conditions.
Jeff Kaminski will then provide specific details on our financials after which I will make a few concluding remarks and in turn open it up for questions.
Once again this quarter our results reinforce that our investment and product positioning strategies are working and we are well positioned for continued revenue and profit growth.
Our quarter-end backlog value of $1.1 billion best illustrates this point.
This is our highest quarter-end backlog since 2008.
We continue to gain momentum in growing our community count.
During the quarter we opened 29 new communities and with our current projection for openings in the fourth quarter we will end the year having opened almost as many communities this year as we did in the prior two years combined.
This sets us up for solid unit and revenue growth opportunities entering 2015.
Looking ahead we will continue to invest in land and land development in support of our growth targets with the goal of increasing market share within our current operating footprint.
Over the past few years we have built a solid growth trajectory through establishing a specific set of objectives that we have shared on previous earnings calls and we are now starting to see the results of this strategy play out.
We made substantial progress on many fronts within the quarter and are pleased with the overall trends we are seeing in our business.
Revenues for the quarter increased to $589 million and net income grew to $28 million.
Our revenue increased by 7% even with a slight decline in units delivered.
This revenue increase is a direct reflection of the continued rotation of our community mix towards stronger submarkets that feature solid demand limited inventory higher incomes and higher median home prices.
While we made progress in many areas of the business our results were diluted by a disappointing performance in closings.
At the beginning of the quarter we had a solid rhythm of sales backlog and whip in place to support a much higher number of deliveries but did not achieve our normal pull through in closings.
This is evidenced by our backlog conversion ratio coming in at 53% a full five to 10 percentage points below our typical backlog conversion and also our lowest conversion ratio in quite some time.
There were various delays around the system.
The tempered closings such a subcontractor shortages inadequate municipal staffing among city inspectors and the inability of utility companies to get new communities energized or meters installed on completed homes.
We always face these types of challenges but they are more pronounced at this point in the cycle when the industry is ramping back up and we are self developing the majority of our new communities.
Compounding these issues during the quarter and a more significant impact on closings was the transition from our preferred mortgage relationship with Nationstar to our new joint venture Home Community Mortgage.
There is never an ideal point in time to commence a transition of this magnitude and that there will always be some level of disruption that hinders the home closings in process.
We anticipated some minor delays however we experienced far more paperwork processing and approval issues than we expected with the launch.
The initial disruption is now behind us and while we have more work to do in fine-tuning this new business we expect a smoother closing process within the mortgage venture going forward.
Whether the delays were related to extend the construction schedules or mortgage transition issues the vast majority of the affected closings were not lost and will occur in our fourth quarter.
For the year we still project to deliver 7 200 to 7 400 homes.
These delivery challenges also blurred the continued progress with our gross profit margin and SG&amp;A improvements as we not only deferred many high-margin closings in California we also had diminished revenue leverage.
While our closing performance for the quarter was below our expectations our larger strategy continues to yield significant gains for the company.
On the orders front we were pleased with our net order value increase of 19%.
Our unit order growth of 5% was in line with our 5% increase in average community count for the quarter.
We continue to produce one of the top order rates per community in the peer group and as we have shared we do not intend to materially push our absorption rates until we achieve our gross margin goals.
Illustrating the favorable impact on our pricing of the position of our new communities and preferred submarkets on a per unit basis our order value increased to $344 400 per home in this quarter.
Looking ahead our $1.1 billion of future revenues in backlog along with projected community openings this quarter has us positioned for a strong fourth quarter financial performance and we will enter 2015 well positioned for unit revenue and profit growth.
Now I would like to report on our progress with our three key strategic initiatives to increase community count grow revenues per community and enhance profitability per unit.
During the quarter we continued to advance in all three of these initiatives.
Relative to community count growth we successfully opened 29 new communities in the quarter and average 197 communities opened for sale.
As we have been guiding this year we expect a significant number of grand openings in our fourth quarter and should end the year with our community count up approximately 15% versus year end 2013.
While this fourth quarter ramp-up will not have much of an impact on our 2014 results more importantly it will most definitely have us set up for significant unit growth starting in the first quarter of next year.
We continue to focus on opening communities in more desirable submarkets that feature strong demand higher income levels and higher median home prices.
A great example of this repositioning is in our Northern California business where our overall community count is flat with last year but we now have a higher proportion of our open communities concentrated in the Bay Area rather than in Sacramento and the Central Valley.
With this mix shift our average selling price and margins in Northern California are moving dramatically higher and we believe this trend should continue into next year.
Our second key initiative is to grow revenue per community.
We are successfully increasing our average selling price through a shift in our locations and product mix but this is only one component of our strategy.
With our built to order approach we have multiple incremental revenue opportunities such as lot premiums studio sales elevation premiums and maximizing price on high-frequency buyer selections.
These revenue opportunities are more readily available with a higher income buyer and all of these components are contributing to our sales price gains.
Over time we do expect to increase our order rates to more historical levels to drive additional revenue growth per community.
However as I shared in the short run we are more focused on revenue growth through maintaining our current pace and gaining price while opening additional communities until we have achieved our stated gross margin goal in the low to mid-20s.
Our third initiative is to enhance our profit per unit through realizing cost efficiencies.
Every division has an action plans in place to lower their cost to build without compromising on quality or product appeal.
These include capturing buying savings on direct cost as we grow our scale in our served markets and also through the benefits of greater even flow production which is being realized as our backlog grows within each division.
We also continue to focus on value engineering our standardized product series where an efficiency idea identified in one division can be quickly applied across the system.
While we are relentless in pursuing ways to lower our cost to build we also have real opportunities for additional SG&amp;A leverage as we drive revenue growth while controlling costs in our current operating footprint.
Through these three key initiatives and our KBnxt business model we continue to enhance execution to achieve superior results.
Our core objective is to generate sustained profitable growth while taking market share in our served markets through investing in our future refining our products and delivering on our primary strategic goals.
In addition to elevating our execution we also continue to work on enhancing key product differentiators for our company.
We focus on innovation in consumer centric ways especially in regards to energy efficiency which can lower the total cost of homeownership.
We know buyers appreciate the built-in value of savings on utility bills over time and we constantly seek out ways to improve the energy performance of our homes without materially raising our cost to build.
In addition our KB Home Design Studios help us to educate our buyers on energy features and options and offers an opportunity for us to gauge consumer interest with any given item and most importantly their willingness to pay for them.
A great example of this is our recent introduction of the new and advanced Whirlpool smart appliance series in our studios where we were the exclusive builders selected by Whirlpool to feature these products and track consumer reaction.
Along the way we continue to be recognized for our advancements in energy efficiency.
This year KB Home received the 2014 RESNET President's Award for delivering the most homes in the U.S.
with a HERS index score below 55.
We also received their award for the lowest HERS index score for a home delivered by a volume production builder in the U.S.
with a HERS score of 42 excluding solar.
These are two specific examples of how we continue to lead the homebuilding industry in the area of sustainability.
In October we will introduce our latest and most advanced Double ZeroHouse in Sacramento.
Through our long-standing partnerships with our national suppliers we have advanced the latest technologies to showcase the home of the future and one that will be recognized as uniquely smart and healthier for homeowners in addition to being extremely energy and water efficient.
This new home's leading wired capabilities add to a home's convenience and performance.
In terms of creating a healthier in-home environment this new Double ZeroHouse includes features such as advanced air ventilation and filtration systems as well as an air particle monitoring system that measures airborne allergens.
We have found that healthier homes resonate with our consumers.
As with our previous versions this Double ZeroHouse is at the cutting edge in terms of sustainability with net zero usage of both energy and outdoor.
Through unique solar panel and battery technology this house harnesses and stores enough energy from the sun to support an entire household's energy needs both day and night.
It also requires zero freshwater for landscaping through our greywater system that recycles water used inside the home for outdoor irrigation saving an estimated 40 000 gallons of water annually for a family of four.
All of these latest technology items featuring this home will eventually be made available at our Sacramento studio.
From minimizing the use of resources through value engineering and recycling to innovative technology to maximizing a home's operating efficiency KB Home continues to be on the front lines of the homebuilding industry in terms of environmental stewardship.
Our leadership in this area enhances our brand and we feel these efforts are one of the reasons we sustain one of the highest order rates per community in the industry.
We are confident that this benefit will only increase over time.
Now I would like to share a few comments on our view of macroeconomic and housing market conditions.
The slow and steady economic recovery continues and has created a housing recovery that varies significantly on a local basis with some areas demonstrating strong demand while other areas in the same city continue to languish.
In our view the biggest obstacle to a full recovery is the lack of real job and income growth.
We are seeing some employment growth but not at levels typical of previous recoveries.
Household incomes have not increased in many years.
With this limited income growth there is also no advancement in buying power.
Both job and income growth are essential to a fulsome housing recovery.
On the positive side consumer confidence continues to rise and is now at its highest level since October 2007.
Low interest rates continue to drive favorable affordability levels and with rising rents homeownership is a compelling option.
In the majority of our markets the out-of-pocket payments for homeownership are lower than the rental payment on a similar home.
While there has been some indication of a slight easing of credit requirements underwriting remains tight and continues to impact the availability of mortgage financing in particular for the first time buyer.
Household formation rates are slowly increasing but are still well below historical levels.
With these household formation rates starting to expand in combination with population growth we believe there is significant pent-up demand for housing which will eventually be unlocked.
On the resale front inventory levels remain in balance sales activity is at healthy levels the percentage of investor buyers continues to decline and home prices are rising in most markets.
All of these factors reinforce that a housing recovery continues but it will take some time to reach historical norms.
In our third quarter we experienced traffic levels that were solidly up across our communities further evidence that there is strong demand.
Our traffic levels were up 24% versus last year however homebuyers are taking their time and being selective with their purchase decision.
Not only does this significant increase in traffic reinforce the desirability of our preferred locations we believe it serves as a leading indicator that supports potential increases in our future order activity.
All this being said as we operate within today's economic environment we have established a solid growth and profit trajectory that we believe will accelerate further if the recovery were to strengthen.
As I often point out homebuilding is a very local business and we are seeing very diverse market dynamics throughout our four regions.
We like our current footprint which has been carefully selected for its favorable long-term economic and demographic projections.
In today's environment we are especially pleased with our strong positions in Coastal California Colorado and Texas.
In our home state of California our most profitable homebuilding region we saw net orders increase 24% and net order value rise 35% over last year.
As a result our quarter-end backlog value in California grew by 68%.
We remain focused on investing in higher-priced submarkets within the coastal regions where we are targeting the affordable side of each price band.
Our investments are successfully playing out in both the Bay Area and Southern California where the coastal markets are performing as strong as they ever have.
As these areas continue to strengthen we are seeing demand slowly moved inland and are now investing in growth in these adjacent submarkets as well.
Our central region which includes Texas and Colorado is also demonstrating strong demand.
It is this region that is experiencing real job growth along with population and income growth.
This is our largest region in terms of unit deliveries and we have a history of successfully operating large businesses in both states.
Similar to California our new communities in the region are opening in higher-priced submarkets and are being very well received.
With the unit backlog of almost 1 800 homes at the end of the third quarter our central region will be a strong contributor to our fourth quarter results.
In the Southwest and Southeast we are seeing varying degrees of strength.
Every city we operate in features pockets of opportunity and we are selectively ramping up our community count in both of these regions.
Las Vegas in particular continues to perform.
During the quarter we successfully grand opened eight new communities in Las Vegas with three of the new openings at Inspirada.
While all the openings were successful the Inspirada openings in particular were met with a strong and enthusiastic response.
On October 4 we will be celebrating the opening of two new major parts of Inspirada that feature tennis and basketball courts soccer fields splash parks and picnic areas.
The sense of community is really taking shape and we are excited about Inspirada's significant potential in this land constrained market.
Moving on to land fueling our future growth remains a top priority.
We are continuing to identify investment opportunities that are aligned with our location product and price strategies while also achieving our financial return criteria.
We now own and control the lots necessary to support our 2015 and 2016 delivery projections and will continue to seek out additional upside opportunities.
I would also like to make a few additional comments on Home Community Mortgage.
As most of you are aware we have been working to find a replacement solution for our previous mortgage joint venture for several years now.
We have operated within a marketing agreement with Nationstar over the last two years and the stability of our backlog and predictability of closings improved but it was still not optimal as we were experiencing only a 50% to 60% capture rate with Nationstar.
With the launch in mid-July we are excited about the positive impact that this new venture will have on our company.
While I have already discussed the unanticipated delays that were triggered by the conversion working together we have made solid progress in addressing the issues and are smoothing out the integration process.
Looking ahead this joint venture will be a great benefit to our customers offering superior levels of customer service and more predictable closings.
We now have a solid business partner that shares mutual goals and as the team at Home Community Mortgage continues to mature we expect to achieve a capture rate in the 70% to 80% range.
At that level of retention we should also see a meaningful income stream develop for the company.
In closing we are encouraged by our progress on many fronts during the quarter.
Our new communities are performing well and with our backlog value of future revenues at $1.1 billion we expect to close the year with a strong financial performance.
In addition with the new community openings we are projecting for our fourth quarter we will enter next year positioned for meaningful unit revenue and profit growth.
Our investment and product strategy is working as we maintain our per community sales pace while driving a much higher average selling price.
We are diligently pursuing our short-term goal of a gross profit margin above 20% while at the same time leveraging our SG&amp;A through increasing revenue in our current footprint.
Home Community Mortgage is now up and running and we look forward to the many benefits it will bring for our customers in closing process.
We are entering a new era at KB Home moving from restoring profitability to accelerating profitable growth.
Now I will turn the call over to Jeff Kaminski who will provide some details on our financial results.
Thank you Jeff and good morning.
We continue to generate positive results in several key financial and operating metrics during the third quarter.
On a year-over-year basis revenues increased 7% to $589 million driven by ASP growth across all four of our homebuilding regions.
Net income rose 4% to $28.4 million which equated to diluted earnings per share $0.28.
We reported growth of 19% in our net order value and an increase of 37% in our backlog value on a 13% rise in the number of homes in backlog.
In addition as a result of our community repositioning strategy and generally favorable market conditions we were able to improve our average selling price by 9% while maintaining our sales pace per community as compared to the prior year.
As Jeff mentioned we are executing well on our strategies but are disappointed that delays in construction schedules and a transition to our new mortgage joint venture deferred some of the deliveries we were anticipating in the third quarter.
This tempered our top line growth moderated our gross margin performance and ultimately led to net income that fell below our expectations.
Our backlog conversion ratio for the 2014 third quarter declined to 53% the lowest level in several years.
While we are taking steps to address the factors that impacted our Q3 deliveries and intend to have most of these actions implemented by the end of the fourth quarter it is important to note that the vast majority of these deliveries were deferred and not lost.
As we realize improvements from the corrective actions we expect to report a much higher Q4 backlog conversion ratios compared to the third quarter in the range of 65% to 70% which would result in approximately 2 200 to 2 400 deliveries for the fourth quarter.
The year-over-year increase in our third quarter revenues was primarily driven by growth in the Central and Southeast regions of 16% and 17% respectively.
Our Southwest region contributed year-over-year revenue growth of 6% and in the West Coast region revenues were essentially flat at $266 million as a 97 unit decline in deliveries compared to a year ago was offset by 21% increase in the average selling price.
We anticipate a strong fourth quarter revenue performance from our West Coast region driven by third quarter net orders that were up 24% from a year ago an increase in net order value of 35% and a 68% jump in the quarter-end backlog value.
We were particularly pleased by these strong results realize during the quarter from our largest revenue and earnings producing homebuilding region.
We believe the delivery of homes that were delayed from the third quarter as reflected in the backlog should further enhance the fourth quarter revenue performance of the West Coast region.
Turning to average selling price.
We have now posted year-over-year increases for the last 17 quarters.
Our overall average selling price rose to $327 000 representing an increase of 9% from a year ago.
This level of growth versus the double-digit year-over-year increases for the previous seven quarters is in line with our earlier guidance.
On a regional basis year-over-year ASP increases ranged from 9% in our Central and Southeast regions to 21% in our West Coast region reflecting our continued positioning of new home communities in land constrained submarkets as well as generally favorable market conditions.
In the fourth quarter we anticipate an increase in the proportion of homes delivered from our California coastal markets stemming from growth in the number of communities open for sales and strong Q3 orders as well as deliveries delayed from the third quarter will help drive a stronger year-over-year percentage increase in our overall ASP.
In fact we expect to see double-digit growth in our Q4 average selling price.
Our housing gross profit margin of 18.8% in Q3 improved by 60 basis points from the year-earlier quarter and represented our highest third quarter gross profit margin performance since 2006.
On an adjusted basis excluding the land option contract abandonment charges in the current quarter and warranty related charges in the year-earlier quarter our Q3 housing gross profit margin was 19.0% in 2014 and 19.3% in 2013.
Relative to our expectations our Q3 gross margin was approximately 40 basis points lower due to diminished revenue leverage on fixed costs included in cost of goods sold.
We continue to work toward our stated near-term goal of a housing gross profit margin in excess of 20% and intend to maintain our sales pace per community and emphasize price and gross margin improvement at least until we reach that level.
We expect to see sequential improvement in our Q4 housing gross profit margin as compared to the third quarter.
In addition combined with the expected increase in our overall average selling price we believe that the improvement in our fourth quarter gross profit dollars per unit will be particularly strong.
During the third quarter we recorded a $3.4 million impairment charge relating to the planned future sale of a land parcel in Atlanta a market where we do not have ongoing operations.
We are currently scheduled to close that transaction in the fourth quarter.
In combination with continued activations of communities previously held for future development we plan to monetize additional land assets to help support our top line growth plans.
In the future we will continue to evaluate the various alternatives and implement specific actions relating to these landholdings.
Our third quarter selling general and administrative expense ratio increased by 80 basis points from a year ago to 12.4%.
This higher ratio is largely the result of an offset to expense of $6.2 million recorded in the 2013 third quarter associated with cash settled equity-based compensation awards.
Over the past year we have taken steps to lessen the expense volatility from these types of awards.
On a sequential basis the third quarter selling general and administrative expense ratio improved 40 basis points from the 2014 second quarter.
Looking to Q4 we expect our SG&amp;A expense ratio to show significant sequential improvement from the third quarter as we continue to tightly control expenses embedded in our current footprint.
We plan to continue to leverage efficiencies in our business model to reduce our overall SG&amp;A expense ratio in conjunction with expanding our number of active selling communities and top line revenues.
During the current quarter we opened 29 new communities and closed out of 23.
We ended the quarter with 200 active selling communities our highest level in three years.
On a year-over-year basis our third quarter average community count was up 5% which was below our expectations as certain community openings were deferred to the fourth quarter.
Based on our fourth quarter community opening plans we expect our year-end community count to increase approximately 15% as compared to November 30 2013 and our average community count for the quarter to be up about 10% versus the fourth quarter the prior year.
The increased community count as we enter 2015 is expected to provide a strong tailwind for next year's net orders beginning in the first quarter and the start of the important spring selling season.
To advance our community count goals we invested $334 million in land acquisition development during the quarter and we remain on track to invest approximately $1.6 billion for the year.
Year-to-date as of August 31 2014 we invested $1.2 billion which is up 34% from the same period of 2013.
We continue to maintain our underwriting standards for land acquisitions in support of revenue and margin improvement moving forward and we are identifying what we believe are strong investment opportunities.
Turning now to our deferred tax asset.
As we have indicated in our past guidance we continue to expect to reverse most of our DTA valuation allowance in the fourth quarter.
This event will significantly improve our stockholders equity and book value per share while also substantially reducing our debt to capital ratio.
At the end of the third quarter the valuation allowance is approximately $833 million.
Before I conclude my remarks I would like to cover a fourth quarter housekeeping item.
Due to complexities relating to the calculation and audit of our DTA valuation allowance reversal we anticipate that we will be releasing our fourth quarter results in early January as opposed to prior to the holiday break as we have done the past few years.
In conclusion we are actively working to address the challenges that I described and we anticipate a strong fourth quarter in terms of revenue and income generation as we continue to execute on our strategic initiatives to accelerate profitable growth.
We are also encouraged by the strengthening third quarter traffic trend that Jeff mentioned which was up 24% as compared to the prior year and we are particularly excited about our projected year-end community count and backlog value that should provide strong tailwinds for both net orders and delivery growth next year.
Now Jeff Mezger will share his concluding comments.
Thanks Jeff.
I would like to take a brief moment to thank all employees at KB Home for their contribution in helping us achieve our goals.
While I am out visiting divisions across the country the highlight for me is experiencing the passion and dedication of our employees and the pride they exhibit with the quality of our product and their role in delivering the American dream.
In conclusion we are solidly profitable and we are building momentum.
Our strategy is working in the current market environment and we continue to position ourselves for capturing upside.
We are still on offense at KB Home and I look forward to sharing more of our success with you in the future.
Thank you for your time this morning and now we will open the call up to questions.
Manny? (Operator Instructions).
The first question is from Michael Rehaut of JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks.
Good morning everyone.
The first question I had was on the gross margin.
I appreciate some of the detail Jeff K that you gave in terms of the 40 bips impact.
I think that you estimated from the delayed deliveries and reduced leverage.
I wanted to know if there was also any type of impact as well due to the mix the fact that some of the West Coast deliveries in particular were impacted and if those deliveries typically have a positive mix impact on the gross margin as well? Yes Mike.
That's correct.
We did see some impact obviously coming from the lower West Coast deliveries.
Some of those were rather high as you can imagine high dollar ASPs as well as high dollar margins and high percentage margins above the company average but the larger impact was on the leverage but the mix had an incremental impact as well.
Okay.
So maybe the 40 bips on the leverage and then a little incremental like you are saying from the mix? It's correct.
Thank you.
The next question from Bob Wetenhall of RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys thanks for the color.
Jeff if you could just give us you said there were some labor shortages some municipal bottlenecks and then some issues with pulling electric as to delays.
If you could give us an update on that? And also to how should we think about the transition to Home Community Mortgage and the structure of this and how does that tie together with the Nationstar relationship? Thanks.
Okay.
Thanks Bob.
Let me split the topics.
As we have been sharing you hear it across the industry there is pockets of labor shortages that depending on the city are really tough or not so bad and that's fairly typical in our industry when things are recovering.
What we are continuing to bump up against relative to the utility companies if you think about our industry is moving past buying finished lots and building homes on those and completing those communities to more deals that are self developed and in those it's not just getting an electric meter plugged in it's getting the community energized.
And the utility companies reduced staff in the downturn just like everyone else and they are really struggling with their infrastructure to keep up.
And a good example that gets back to some lost California deliveries I will use Playa Vista as an example because a lot of you were out there at our Investor Conference earlier this year.
We had 15 homes in the queue to deliver where the home is completed the loan is approved the buyers walked because we can put temporary power to the homes to totally shake them down and present them to the customer but we couldn't get the community energized and in turn meters plugged in.
So what in the past would have been a two day to a week process took five weeks.
And as a result we deferred up to 15 closings at a meaningful price and above company average margin.
So you take that hit in that example.
Once the community is energized you are done dealing with that issue because now the whole community is energized and it's down to just getting electric meters plugged in.
The utility issues were not just in California.
We are doing a lot of self-development in Texas or Colorado where the utility companies are holding us up in getting the community energized.
And what we will do in development is put the conduit in the ground you can pave the streets you can build the home but until they turn the switch to power up the community you are stuck.
And it happened to us in a few locations.
I don't expect that to be a broad-based major headwind.
We had a combination of a few communities that all hit the same issue in the month of August.
So again that's a nicer problem to have because it tells you the market is recovering.
It just took us a little by surprise.
The bigger issue that I addressed was the transition that Home Community Mortgage and what we now know in retrospect and I shared in my comments there is never an ideal time.
In essence we took a group of employees that were at Nationstar made them employees at Home Community Mortgage got them trained developed new systems to learn and then in a matter of a few days transferred 1 700 loans from Nationstar to Home Community Mortgage.
And while they are the same employees it's a different company and we had to reprocess credit reports and documentation in the name of Home Community Mortgage.
So in essence we started over on a lot of loans that we thought we would do it in the middle of the quarter that you could avoid any major issues and it took longer than we expected it to.
And again as Jeff and I shared in our comments we have already taken steps.
We took the broadside if you will and we are continuing to work on things to smooth out the process going forward.
As it matures we are hopeful that it performs like our previous JVs did and as you get your retention rate up and you start executing well which may take a quarter or two by that time it should spin off profits for us and we have 50% of the profits that that business makes.
Thank you.
The next question is a follow-up from Michael Rehaut.
Please go ahead.
Thanks I appreciate that.
I guess I was cut off from my second question.
I just wanted to circle back also to SG&amp;A.
I appreciate the incremental color about the stock bonus that affected the year ago or the stock compensation timing.
Going forward how do you think about SG&amp;A and what's your ultimate goal there? Because I think in 4Q again given the timing of that we have your 4Q 2013 SG&amp;A at 11.6% and so I think there might be additional confusion there that should be avoided but longer term how do you think about SG&amp;A in terms of the right number let's say in a fuller revenue type of dynamic for the company let's say two years out? Right.
I am glad you asked that question Mike.
There are a few comments I can make on it.
I guess I will start with the current quarter moving to the fourth quarter and then give you more long-term.
On the current quarter the impact on the SG&amp;A percentage on ratio was really very much top line related.
We lost a number deliveries.
We would nearly 200 deliveries and $60 million or so of top line revenue that impacted the ratio.
The fixed costs were maintained fairly steadily from the third quarter.
We counted on getting more leverage from the top line.
And the so-called miss in SG&amp;A was really purely associated with the top line.
So I was pleased with the expense control in the quarter.
I was not pleased with the delivery performance.
Relating to the fourth quarter just as a reminder we did have a legal reversal lash in the fourth quarter.
It was $8.2 million which helped us obviously last year and will make the year comparison a little tougher for us this year.
But despite that we do believe we will have significant leverage in the fourth quarter and see a much improved SG&amp;A expense ratio than what we just reported in Q3.
On a long-term basis our target is to get into low double digits.
And as I have said often I would like to see us get as low as single-digit number if we could get our top line high enough and continue to control expenses across our current footprint.
That's I would say is a little further out for us as a goal but certainly that very low double digit number I think is really attainable for the company.
I appreciate that and just for modeling purposes you mentioned that the fixed costs were kind of held in 3Q.
What's the right variable number to think about? Different companies depending on certain moving parts have said builders have said it could be anywhere from 4% to 7%.
If that's kind of the right way to think about it? And maybe if you could give a little closer particular numbers within that range? Right.
I think for modeling purposes if you use about a 5% variable based on top line it gets you pretty close for most of quarters even this quarter.
If you look at the third quarter to the fourth quarter on a sequential basis it got right there on the number and if you extrapolate that out on a higher revenue base you could see where the SG&amp;A I think should have been in this quarter as a ratio.
So that 5% number is a pretty good one to use.
Thank you.
The next question is from Ivy Zelman of Zelman and Associates.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
Thanks guys.
I wanted to ask a question Jeff with respect to your commentary regarding the Central Region.
I think you sounded very upbeat about it and quoting you from last quarter you talked about the vibrant economy in those market economies that you had a 12% year-over-year growth and this year you were flat -- I mean sorry for this quarter you were flat and it seems as if you still were very excited about that listening to your tone.
So seeing the significant deceleration in order activity there and you commented that you don't want to incentivize because you recognize you are not going to push the absorptions to sacrifice margin it sounded like.
So just understanding it seems a little bit different in what you wrote and what you said last quarter and the way you view the sequential and year-over-year versus how we perceive it.
And then secondly your commentary around the mortgage market being tight and realizing it's tough out there last quarter you spoke about green shoots and talked about the entry level coming back.
So it feels like you may have seen something that has changed your view and recognizing maybe it was sort of looking at approvals trying to get the mortgages closed within the JV that you got a closer look at it but something changed.
So maybe you can comment on all of that and obviously I have a lot more questions but I will behave myself.
Okay.
Sure.
Thanks Ivy.
On the Central region you did touch on my answer in that we are pursuing margin on a per store basis.
Year-over-year our sales were about flat.
And our margins in the region have come up significantly but they are still not to our stated goal and every asset has its own strategy but we are still trying to elevate margin and you can see it coming in this region.
And then once we hit the margin this is a region where we can go for a lot of volume because it's not land constrained as the markets are out in the Coastal California.
But it in the short run we are going to maintain our pace and continue to work to get our margin up north of 20%.
As to mortgage underwriting I was trying to give a balanced view on the pluses and minuses.
As I said we have seen a slight improvement in underwriting and I would still say that it is not as difficult as it was but it still is a headwind as you look at FICO scores they have come down somewhat but they have not come down to the degree where you could say that the mortgage companies are underwriting to the broad HUD approved underwriting criteria.
You get under a 670 or 680 FICO you still have to put a lot more money down and as a first-time buyer you don't have that.
So they will give you the loan with a lower FICO but you have to put more money down than you would have previously and that customer doesn't necessarily have it.
And I think you will continue to see it slowly ease but it is not like a switch was flipped and we are back to normal times in underwriting.
It is still tighter than normal.
Thank you.
The next question is from Mike Dahl with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
This is Patrick Murray on for Mike Dahl.
Just first question was with respect to the gross margin goal and the current demand environment.
Can you talk about anything with respect to the time variable as you see more recent land vintages start to come through deliveries? And if that would cause you to maybe shift strategy at all? Pat we certainly haven't shifted strategy.
We have been pretty consistent on this track for many years.
And we have made a lot of progress in advancing our gross profit margin.
To think about it in the perspective that we are hanging right around 19% our goal isn't that far off and you can't just raise your price to get there.
And you are not going to find one thing that reduces cost to get there.
We have to pull a lot of levers and we will continue to pull them until we achieve our targets.
And it's not necessarily tied to the vintage of the land it's the overall company book of business and what we have to do to get to our margin once you add any other color on that.
Okay.
Thanks and then a second related question.
Can you talk about the land competition? What you are seeing out there in some of your markets? And if that has changed at all year to date and maybe in comparison to last year? Thank you.
Okay.
Thanks Patrick.
Obviously that's something that varies at a very local level and I would say that in the land constrained areas it continues to be pretty competitive because there is not that many parcels to bid on.
In some of the markets that have shown a little more softness like a Sacramento or a Phoenix the land sellers are becoming more rational.
We are hearing some things about deals being re-traded where they may have been bid up and the buyer backs out or tries to cut a new deal.
So in those areas where it's little bit softer you are seeing it more rationalized but typically the land markets will move with the confidence or lack of among the purchasers.
And markets that are good it's competitive markets that aren't so good it's not that tough.
We continue to underwrite by the way to the same financial criteria we have had in place for years.
So we were not compromising in order to acquire things that has to hit our hurdles.
So we are not going to make the investment decision.
Thank you.
The next question is from John Coyle with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Actually it's Steve Kim from Barclays.
Guys thanks very much for all the color.
I just was a little intrigued by something you mentioned earlier.
You had said that I think if I heard you say you were sort of looking to focus on getting your gross margin to 20% or better before you got a little bit more aggressive let's say on the order side of the equation.
But at the same time you also mentioned that there was a 40 basis point headwind on your gross margin from maybe a slower pace of deliveries i.e.
unit volumes.
So it's kind of a little iterative and a little circular.
I guess I was kind of curious as to whether you believe that you can achieve a higher gross margin in any kind of market environment? Or it would seem to me that the market pretty much can give you a certain gross margin and you pretty much need to make sure you are pricing your product according to what the market will give you.
So I guess I am a little confused by exactly what you were trying to say by putting the gross margin comment first before you were going to get really aggressive on volume.
Right Steve and a few comments on that.
I mean pricing ultimately is the market function.
New homebuilders are a small percent of the overall housing market.
There has to be some alignment with resale pricing in order for us to sell homes and make money and that's what we strive for.
You can be more on the aggressive side of that at times or more on the conservative side and go for margin.
The comment I made on the margin hit in the current quarter was really reflective of the delivery shortfall not net order shortfall.
Our conversion rate came in at about 53%.
It was about 5% short of where it should have been in the quarter.
As we talked several times during the call we are taking actions to correct that and expect to have a much higher conversion rate in the fourth quarter.
So I don't see it as inconsistent at all.
They are really two different issues.
The sales pace is supporting a volume for our business that will provide that near-term target 20% margin.
In the current quarter we happened to have a few hiccups on the delivery side which again we are very disappointed about and doing much focus on correcting on a go forward basis as soon as the fourth quarter.
So in my mind there is no inconsistency there.
Steve let me add a couple more color or comments for you.
I think our business model gives us a lot of margin upside today.
And what Jeff touched on you have to be priced competitively with whatever the market will give you and certainly with the resale median prices in that area as I shared in my prepared comments we have a lot of things we can mine in a built to order business that you can't do when you are a spec builder.
When you are a spec builder the longer the home sits the lower the price gets.
We build value up and we are continuing to find ways to get higher margin through the revenue side and as we are rebuilding the scale in our markets we are going to see more cost synergy on the direct side.
And they are both in play right now and we continue to attack both of them.
If you balance that with we are tracking three to four month in our communities that's a balance where you can get the return and you will opt for a higher margin.
If you go to our Coastal California communities that are typically irreplaceable you are not ever going to run them hot.
You are never going to let those run even for a month because you can't replace it.
And if it's 30 40 50 lots you mine every dollar of margin you can and in some cases it can be significant.
If you go to Houston where land is readily available and we have a big businesses and we can go replace most of our communities at relatively comparable lot cost once we hit the promised land on our margin side you will see us ramp up our sales per community.
So every asset has its own strategy.
It happens to bubble up in about four a month.
And that's what our target is until we get north of the 20%.
Got it.
That's actually very helpful.
It makes me feel a lot better.
Thanks a lot for that clarification.
My second question relates to a comment I think on traffic.
And I guess this is something that harkens back to one of your peers that had a recent conference call where traffic was good substantially better than what the order rate was.
I just wanted to make sure that this traffic figure it appears to be I guess a gross number not a net number.
Correct me if I am wrong on that.
And if that's the case it would seem that if you simply had your average buyer instead of visiting I don't know three times maybe visits four times or instead of four goes to five or something like that you could achieve a significant differential between your traffic increase and your order rate to the tune of like 25% to 30% just on that alone and I was curious as to whether or not you believe that a rising traffic or a higher traffic growth rate versus an order rate necessarily will lead to a future increase in orders if all you have is people the same number of people just visiting you one more time let's say than they usually did in the past? Actually Steve and this is anecdotal.
The feedback I am getting from the field is that the quality of the traffic is improving.
These are real buyers that are out there that are just taking their time right now and making sure they are comfortable with the home buying decision.
And I think the good old days are gone right now where you could get what I call a floor pop we you could actually sell somebody on their first time in.
We are seeing the customers come back four five six seven times before they make the home buying decision.
So I do believe that this increase in traffic suggests there is a strengthening interest in homeownership and we think it will help propel more sales in the future.
Thank you.
The next question is from Jack Micenko of Susquehanna International Group.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thanks for taking the questions.
I am wondering about your perspective on broker incentives over the past quarter.
I have been hearing and seeing some increases.
It's probably not well-suited for your model on the built to order but just curious if you have seen any change there on the broker incentives.
Jack that's a good question.
We typically don't o anything other than whatever the market commission rate is for the broker.
Our realtor co-op percentage is up more of our sales have a realtor associated with them today then in the past and that's without having a broad-based campaign to pay more for the realtors.
What I have always found over the years is if you take care of their customer do a good job deliver on the promise their customer is happy and the transaction works well they will bring you more business.
They are not necessarily motivated by an extra one point.
While that's my belief having said that we are seeing some signs in some of the cities where other builders are increasing realtors spiffs or commission rates.
That's not new.
That's been going on for years and we don't think it naturally drives a lot of sales and pretty happy right now with our realtor participation level.
Okay great.
And then Jeff K.
I think you had sort of intimated that we would see maybe more land sales in the future either you reposition or sort of get out of markets.
Do you expect more impairments like the Atlanta land sale? Or is some of that stuff above water now? Is there a way to think about either the magnitude of sort of future land sales in a dollar amount or kind of where we are versus the market that sort of thing? Yes.
I would say it's difficult right now to give any precise numbers on it.
I wanted to basically make a comment that it is a lever that we are looking at.
We obviously have a very large landholding in Las Vegas in Inspirada where we have a land that's priced at or marked at our book a very favorable cost where we certainly wouldn't expect to lose any money on sales there.
Really we are looking at a whole portfolio across all the divisions and just pulling different levers.
In some cases it's going to be activations of land.
Other cases we may potentially look at some isolated sales from here on out.
So that's really it.
Jack let me make a comment on the Atlanta sale.
As far as I know that's the only asset we had anywhere where we are not there in that market today.
So this isn't a case where we have a lot of assets around the system where we are no longer operating.
And when we made the decision to park this one it's in a desirable area on the north side of Atlanta and we actually evaluated the merits of going back in and building it out in that we knew we could create more value through a build out.
And I made the decision let's continue to focus on our current footprint take those dollars and reinvest them where our teams are in place and we will get a better return than the distraction of sending somebody up to Atlanta to build out a 70 or 80 lot community.
So that's an example of where we could have built it out elected not to so we can stay focused on the core footprint.
But that's the only asset we had that's not in our active businesses as I am aware of.
Thank you.
The next questions is from Eli Hackel with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
I had a question about the Chinese buyer in California.
I mean you have seen a lot of commentary as it relates to that economy and things slowing down.
Have you seen any of that make its way into the California residential real estate market? Well we continue to see heavy demand from Chinese nationals that are relocating to in particular SoCal.
And what we are finding is it's a quote real buyer.
This is not an investor.
You hear things in the media that people are trying to get their wealth out of China but the primary motivator seems to be getting into investing their money in a solid real estate investment and getting their children into a preferred school district in California and in turn hopefully someday a UC college education.
So we have seen a lot of it.
I haven't heard anything that it's materially changed.
I think we still have a pretty strong influence there.
When you are gateway state like California is to such a large population in Asia because right now we are talking Chinese but over the years Japanese Korean Philippine there is always a country that seems to have a lot of interest in relocating to California and it is a great place to live.
So I understand that.
But we have not seen any indication that that shift has occurred yet.
Great thanks very much.
Thank you.
The next question is from Mike Roxland of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Thanks very much.
Just a quick question on the Central Region.
Just wanted to get a sense as to why order prices declined by around 2% on a year-over-year basis and whether that has to do with the company's ability to incentivize to move product there? I don't have all the details Mike but I know that the one division that was down a handful of sales was Colorado where our ASP is significantly higher than in Texas.
So that alone could be the difference.
We are not experiencing a lot of incentives in Texas in our business.
It's strong and we continue to push for more margin not less.
Got you and then just a question on the Southeast region.
I get your viewpoint as to the order declines.
I think orders were down about 8% in the quarter.
Is that just a function of your strategy to match pace versus price? Or did something else go on in that region? Well for starters it's not that big a region.
So I think the sales were down a total of 30 net orders in the quarter and over half of that was in Raleigh and DC.
So if you get into Raleigh and DC it's kind of the timing of closing out of the last few lots in this community and you lost a month to renew one was opened and I didn't give much color on Florida but we are actually seeing strength in pockets in Florida.
I could name by city an area of that city that's performing quite nicely.
We have some strong communities in Tampa Orlando and Jacksonville.
And then at the same time we have some that aren't working so well in some of the lesser areas we are trying to work our way through.
So our community count ticked up in the quarter and I think you will see us start to push more activity out of the Southeast going forward.
Thank you and our final question comes from Adam Rudiger of Wells Fargo Securities.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks.
Can you just give us some broad color on maybe the intra-quarter trends? What you saw month-to-month? We saw the new home sales came out today that seemed a little bit contradictory from some of the trends we have seen from the big builders.
So anything you can shed on that would be helpful.
Sure.
Adam I don't react too much to the monthly new home sales because they always seem to be adjusted 30 days later and I am not sure the quality of the number it's a number that's posted.
We felt in our case it was fairly consistent across the quarter.
When we break it down monthly you have to look at things like how many weekends in the month and how many days in a month and which holidays occur in which month.
That can move it around a bit but are our traffic levels were elevated throughout the quarter and we felt that our demand was pretty consistent throughout the quarter.
Okay.
Thank you and then how about just any comments you had on costs? Why don't you tell him what's going on costs? Sure a couple of comments on costs.
We are continuing to see some headwinds on the cost side mainly in labor pretty much across all market and various pockets.
So there is pockets of labor pressures that we have been seeing on a year-over-year basis probably up three or four percentage points in costs since the start of the year unlike product.
And it's an area we try to continue to control.
We have implemented a lot of basically pursing strategies across the business to help control that.
At this point obviously we are absorbing those cost increases and doing better than that in fact on the price side.
So it hasn't really hurt the margin but it is an area of concern for us and something that we continue to watch very closely.
And until I think some little more capacity enters the labor market it may continue to be pretty tight on that side of the business for some time.
Thank you.
That concludes the question-and-answer portion of the conference.
I would like to turn the floor back over to management for any closing remarks.
Thank you Manny.
I would like to again thank everyone for joining us today.
We look forward to a strong financial finish to our year and in turn we look forward to sharing our full results with you in January.
Have a great week and we will talk to all of you soon.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.
Good morning.
My name is Rob and I will be your conference operator today.
I like to welcome everyone to the KB Home 2014 Fourth Quarter Year End Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Today's conference is being recorded and a live webcast is available on KB Home's website at kbhome.com.
Following the Company's opening remarks we will open the lines for questions [Operator Instructions].
KB Home's discussion today may include forward-looking statements that reflect management's current views and expectations of market conditions future events and the Company's business performance.
These statements are not guarantees of future results and the Company does not undertake any obligation to update them.
Due to a number of factors outside of its control including those identified in its SEC filings the Company's actual results could be materially different from those expressed and/or implied by the forward-looking statements.
A reconciliation of non-GAAP measures referenced during today's discussion to their most directly comparable GAAP measures can be found in the Company's earnings release issued earlier today and/or on the Investor Relations page of the Company's Web site.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Chief Executive Officer for KB Home Mr.
Jeff Mezger.
Mr.
Mezger you may begin.
Thank you Rob.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you everyone for joining us today for a review of our fourth quarter and full year 2014 results.
With me today are Jeff Kaminski Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Bill Hollinger Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer; and Thad Johnson Vice President and Treasurer.
I will begin with a summary of our fourth quarter performance and provide some color on our accomplishments and some challenges we encountered during the period.
Then I will share our key areas of focus for 2015 as we continue to pursue top line growth and improvement in profitability while also now working to enhance our recurrence through improving our capital efficiency.
Following this Jeff Kaminski will provide greater detail on our financial results.
After which I will offer some concluding remarks before opening the call up to your questions.
During the fourth quarter we achieved continued progress across many of our core financial metrics.
We reported 796 million in revenues an increase of 29% over the prior year on 2229 deliveries.
Our average selling price up 351 500 which increased by 17% year-over-year was a key contributor to our top line growth as our investment and product strategies continue to drive results.
Our adjusted gross margin was 18.7%.
I am disappointed with this result as we expect it to perform better.
And I’ll provide additional detail around this topic in a moment.
During the quarter our SG&amp;A ratio continued to improve coming in at 10.5% as we work to contain overhead cost while growing our revenue.
Net income for the quarter rose to 853 million or $8.36 per diluted share reflecting both our operational results and the positive impact of our DTA reversal.
With this result we now have 1.6 billion in book equity nearly three times our equity at the prior year end.
While we continue to make progress in many areas of our business during the quarter we also recognize there is still much work to be done to achieve our financial goals going forward.
Now I’d like to address our fourth quarter housing gross margin performance.
The time of our last earnings call with our expectation that the housing market would continue at slow yet steady recovery we indicated that we believed our housing gross profit margin for the fourth quarter will improve sequentially from the third quarter.
Unfortunately we experienced the softening in demand in some of our served markets as the quarter progressed with increased pricing pressure while at the same time we continue to face cost pressure among other things.
As a result we generated a disappointing fourth quarter adjusted housing gross margin of 18.7% which was down 30 basis points from the third quarter.
While regionally results in the inland markets of our West Coast operations had the most significant effect several factors contributed to the difference between our actual and projected gross margin results.
First we were impacted as a result of delivering fewer homes than we had previously expected consequently we lost some operating leverage on our indirect construction costs.
These costs have been increasing ahead of deliveries as we continue to staff our operations in support of our current and future community account growth.
Second against the back drop of tighter market conditions we had an increased use of sales incentives and price reductions and spec home deliveries in the quarter.
Third we continue to experience cost pressures with our construction labor and material cost.
We believe that all of these factors taking together had about an 80 basis point impact on our gross profit margin for the quarter.
Looking to 2015 with this lower fourth quarter gross margin comparable to the prior year as a starting point we know that our gross margin will continue to lag the prior year comp for some time.
As a result we are projecting our first quarter 2015 gross margin will drop significantly from the first quarter of 2014 hitting the low point for the year before improving sequentially for the remaining three quarters of 2014.
As we often observe there is no one item that will drive an improvement in gross margin.
There is a menu of many actions in both revenue and cost and we are aggressively addressing all of them.
Although at this time we do not expect to reach our housing gross profit margin goal of 20% in 2015 as we have hoped this remains the target level we are working toward for the near future.
Moving on to the sales and traffic trends for the quarter our net order value increased to 587 million up 22% on a unit increase of 10%.
This increase in net orders is consistent with our average community count growth for the quarter of 13%.
As we shared we will continue to balance price and pace to optimize each asset and expect our sales rate per community will not increase until we achieve our targeted gross margins.
In the mean time we do expect that our future order growth will coincide within the range of our community count growth.
Our traffic levels per community remain strong up 15% over the prior year.
This data point reinforces that there continues to be strong interest in home ownership.
Our year-end backlog value rose to 940 million a 34% increase over the prior year and our highest year-end backlog value since 2007.
Between our backlog position our growing community count and our product mix continuing to generate a higher ASP we are well positioned to drive unit and revenue growth entering 2015.
The priorities looking forward I’d like to revisit the journey we have been on over the past few years.
As we entered 2012 we knew that we would need to further accelerate revenue growth in order to achieve and sustain profitability.
We announced at that time that we are going on offence and it was rallying cry within our organization.
We made significant investments in land and lots to grow community count and repositioned our locations and products within our current business footprint while at the same time minimizing overhead increases as we supported this growth strategy.
Our 2014 results reflect the culmination of these actions and with these profits we achieved our short term goal of recognizing the DTA reversal.
Now that we have established the larger scale and sustained profitability we will be expanding our focus to not only growing our revenues and enhancing profitability but also to improving our returns.
Due to the investments we have made we own and control all the lots needed for our 2015 business and substantially all the lots needed for 2016.
Having now made significant progress with our land pipeline and in profitability in late 2014 we began augmenting this focus with a greater emphasis on enhancing our asset efficiency and improving our returns on invested capital.
As part of these efforts we have been evaluating potential opportunities to more quickly monetize certain and long term development assets in order to redeploy the capital in the more productive assets that have a shorter life cycle.
In that regard in October we sold our last remaining land position in Atlanta a market where we no longer have ongoing operations.
In addition we have increased our efforts to reactivate properties previously held for future development in various markets where we continue to operate.
Reflecting this change in our corporate strategy to more quickly monetize certain long held development assets we recorded inventory impairment charges of $34 million in Q4 related to seven properties.
The majority were 23 million of these impairment charges related to an 80 acre land parcel located in Coachella Valley area of Southern California a sub market that has not recovered as quickly as we had anticipated.
Similar to Atlanta this is a market where we no longer actively participate.
This particular property which was earmarked as an active adult community is not aligned with our core business and will require significant additional investment dollars in land development and infrastructure for an extended period of time to build out.
Taking all of this into account we decided to better optimize as non-strategic asset by monetizing it in the short-term through a plan future land sale and redeploying the cash to generate healthier returns rather than building and selling homes on the property as we have previously intended.
The remainder or $11 million of the fourth quarter impairment charges related to six communities primarily located in inland California and Arizona.
Based on our evaluation of the markets where these assets are located we decided to monetize these land positions sooner by opening for sales more quickly than anticipated and accelerating our overall timing and pace for building and delivering homes.
In addition sum of the Q4 impairment charges related to certain active communities where housing market conditions have softened.
In 2015 as we plan to continue to work to improve our asset efficiency and generate a greater return on invested capital we may identify and evaluate other opportunities to more quickly monetize assets particularly those with longer-term horizons or that would require a significant additional cash outlay for development and infrastructure before the first home would be delivered.
It is important to note that in the two-year period prior to this quarter we have activated 34 communities of these only three communities have impairment charges as time of their activation or in a subsequent period.
To the extent we change our strategy on any given asset it is possible that we may have additional impairments in the future.
As a result from our growing profitability and our actions to enhance our capital efficiency we believe that we can support our current growth strategy without having to access to capital markets for equity.
I’d also like to briefly comment on the status of Home Community Mortgage our mortgage joint venture.
In its first full quarter of operations after the roll out in July this team continued to elevate their execution while still not optimal we’re pleased with the steady progress being demonstrated each month and look forward to the increasingly positive impact the venture will have on the predictability of our business as 2015 unfolds.
As service levels continue to improve and our capture rate increases we’re also looking forward to the added benefits of the additional income strength.
In closing while many of our served market remains sluggish in their pace of recovery with our larger scale and expectation for continued community comp growth we believe we have momentum.
We will continue to drive our top-line growth while taking every action possible to enhance our profitability while also now working diligently to improve our return on invested capital.
With that I’ll hand the call over to Jeff Kaminski for a more detailed discussion of our financial results.
Jeff? Thank you Jeff and good morning.
We continued our profitable growth trajectory in the fourth quarter largely through the successful execution of our three strategic initiatives.
Perhaps most notably during the quarter we reversed $825 million of our deferred tax asset valuation allowance.
The steady operational improvements and expected future performance that's supported the reversal also set the stage for the introduction of our fourth strategic initiative improving asset efficiency and increasing our return on invested capital.
Since Jeff has just covered the headline results for the quarter I will focus on providing more details surrounding some of our key financial metrics for the period and our expectations heading into 2015.
Certainly one highlight for the quarter was the increase in our overall average selling price to $351 500 representing a 17% rise from year ago.
Double-digit increases in three of our four home building regions combined with the expected favorable mix shift toward higher priced substantial markets within our Northern California division were the main drivers of this improvement.
For the first quarter of 2015 we currently expect to experience a sequential decline in our average selling price due to the changing mix of deliveries within our home building regions as well as a relative shift of deliveries away from our higher priced West Coast region to our other home building regions.
We also anticipate selling price growth to moderate in 2015 given the higher price levels we have reached after 18 consecutive quarters of year-over-year increases.
We expect the first quarter ASP to be in a range of $325 000 which is closer to what we reported in the second and third quarters of 2014.
Our housing gross profit margin for the fourth quarter was 17.3% versus 17.9% for the same quarter of 2013.
The current quarter included $34.2 million of inventory impairment charges of which $11 million were housing inventory related.
The 2013 fourth quarter included $8.5 million of warranty related charges and 3.3 million of housing inventory impairment in land option contract abandonment charges.
Excluding these housing impairment and warranty charges our fourth quarter adjusted housing gross profit margin decreased to 18.7% in 2014 from 19.8% in 2013.
While our goal of achieving a minimum 20% housing gross profit margin remains intact we believe our timing to achieve this goal will be extended largely due to the current headwinds discussed earlier.
During the fourth quarter our selling general and administrative expense ratio increased by 20 basis points from a year ago to 10.5%.
This slightly higher ratio was mainly due to the reversal of an $8.2 million accrual in the 2013 fourth quarter following a favorable court decision.
Excluding this reversal our ratio would have improved by 110 basis points year over year.
Sequentially the fourth quarter ratio improved by 190 basis points as compared to Q3 of 2014 reflecting the continued success of our cost containment efforts and the favorable leverage impact of increasing revenues.
We ended the fourth quarter with 227 communities open for sales up 19% from 191 communities a year earlier.
During the fourth quarter we opened 40 new communities and closed out 13.
Our fourth quarter average community count of 214 was up 13% as compared to the same period of last year.
During the quarter we invested $272 million in land bringing our total owned and controlled log count at year end to 52 198.
We expect further community count growth in 2015 with the full year average projected to increase in the range of 15% to 20% versus 2014 depending of course on sales absorption rates and the resulting timing of community close outs.
Our net order performance during the quarter was consistent with our stated strategy of maintaining pace on a per community basis roughly in line with the year earlier quarter and increasing overall net orders in line with community count growth.
Fourth quarter 2014 net orders increased 10% to 1 706 or 2.7 orders per average community per month approximately the same rate that we experienced in Q4 of 2013.
Our net order value for the quarter increased 22% from a year ago to $587.4 million due to higher net orders and average selling prices.
Turning now to our balance sheet and capital structure we were able to achieve our goal of reversing a significant portion of our deferred tax asset valuation allowance during the fourth quarter and we ended the year with a net debt to capital ratio of 57.9%.
At year end we had over $550 million of liquidity and our strategic prioritization of asset efficiency will place additional focus on asset monetization opportunities as well as balancing land investment and managing growth within our capital structured goals.
We are targeting a lower rate of land investment in 2015 in the range of $1.1 billion to $1.4 billion which we believe will support our revenue growth objectives.
Other than in connection with the planned refinancing of our senior notes due in June of this year we have no anticipated capital raises for the foreseeable future and have no plans to issue equity.
In addition our target net debt to capital ratio in the 40% to 50% range remains consistent with past comments.
We are pleased with the progress we made during the 2014 fiscal year.
Our focused operational and investment strategies yielded broad improvements across most of our core financial metrics demonstrating the success of our strategic initiatives.
However we believe the headwinds that have developed will likely create a pause in this progress and we have moderated our expectations for the first quarter of 2015.
We currently expect housing revenues of between $440 million and 490 million in Q1.
With this anticipated significant decrease in the housing gross profit margin mentioned earlier and the inclusion of a projected land sale gain of approximately $7 million we believe our first quarter bottom line will be approximately break-even.
Now I will turn the call back over to Jeff for his final remarks.
Thanks Jeff.
In closing I would like to review some highlights of our full year results.
Revenues increased to 2.4 billion or 14% year over year.
Most of this revenue growth can be attributed to our higher average selling price as the geographic and product mix of our investments over the last few years continues to gain traction.
Growing our top-line and improving our profitability allowed us to achieve our goal of reversing the DTA valuation allowance.
As a result of both our operational earnings and this reversal our net income for the year was 918 million or $9.25 per diluted share.
Our reported book equity at year end was 1.6 billion up substantially over the prior year and is now at a value of approximately $16 per fully diluted share.
We enter the year with a strong backlog in place and with the year ending community count that is up 19% over last year.
This leaves us in a much better position to capitalize on this year’s spring selling season.
Looking ahead we expect to sustain our community count growth which combined with an increase in ASP year-over-year will continue to drive real topline growth.
At the same time we will be diligently working to enhance profitability with a particular focus on improving gross margins.
With our increasing revenue and improving profitability we believe we are positioned to support our growth target while placing a greater emphasis and also improving our return on invested capital.
Thank you all for joining us this morning.
Rob let’s open up the call to questions.
Thank you.
We will now be conducting a question and answer session.
[Operator Instructions].
Our first question is from the line of Michael Rehaut with JPMorgan.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
First question I had was on I guess the gross margins obviously an area of concern and you have talked about it a bit already.
But just wanted to clarify when you talk about your expectation for first quarter gross margins to be down materially sequentially it would appear that given the outlook for breakeven net income that would also be down materially on a year-over-year basis.
Is that correct? And also for the outlook for the full year are you expecting gross margins to on a full year basis improve be flat or even be down year-over-year? On a year-over-year basis we do expect the first quarter margin to be down.
There is really two I would say maybe two or three main impacts affecting the margins in the first quarter.
The first one is what we typically see every year in the first quarter which is the leverage impact or the loss of leverage impact on the fixed cost that we have included in our construction cost.
And we think there could be up to 2 to 4 percentage points of margin impact just in that.
We have the conditions and the items discussed during the script on the market pricing higher incentives that we are seeing in the marketplace price the ability to increase price not equal to some of the cost increases that we are seeing that we think will affect it.
And we also have a couple of very high value very high margin communities in our West Coast region that are posed out now in the fourth quarter and we won’t enjoy the benefit from those coming in the first quarter.
And I think it is important to note that we do believe that first quarter will be a low point for the year and that will have sequential improvement going further into that.
As far as the full year estimate on gross margin right now I'd say it really depends on market conditions through the spring and our ability to raise price and offset some of the cost increases that we have been experiencing.
But I would say that the 20% target is not likely in 2015.
The next question is from the line of David Goldberg with UBS.
Please go ahead with your question.
I was wondering if you guys can give some more clarity on the return on capital focus and specifically what does that translate to? I mean I assume it means greater free cash flow generation.
Is it just the way that you invest another capital maybe on a market basis? Or is it thinking maybe a little bit paying down some debt or maybe start buyback.
So I just wondered if you could give us some focus on kind of how you are seeing about maximizing return on capital if it is going to become more efficient within the business.
David as I shared in the my look back on history we have to get to a higher scale to be able to sustain profits.
And we have done that.
So your first priority is to create a return and we have now done that and we are going to pull every lever to continue to improve our profitability so improve the return.
On the other side of the equation we think we can drive our growth with our own cash generation.
And whether it’s some of the things we talked about monetizing all the assets whether it’s selling some lots where lots [indiscernible] location just a general review every month of our balance sheet where our assets are what the status is and what can we do to monetize things while continuing to grow our business.
And we know that overtime we want to get to an inventory turnover 2x we are not there today.
But I think where you started with the comment on generating more cash that’s where we are starting we want to drive our business with our balance sheet and not have to go access the markets anymore.
Our next question is from the line of Megan McGrath with MKM.
Please proceed with your question.
Wanted to ask a little bit about your expectations for community count growth among what sounds like a relatively cautious outlook for the year in terms of the soft demand continuing.
And if you could comment specifically you talked a little bit about inland California.
Could you talk a little bit about if you are seeing anything in Texas now specifically in Houston as we started to see some layoffs there and also has the expectations that Houston could be soft this year impacted your growth plans in that region.
Sorry long question.
It's okay.
Megan let me help cover as many as I can recall from your question.
Let me start up talks with a couple of comments.
We entered the year with a community count of 19%.
We normally don’t like talking about trends within a quarter but in this case because we’re half way through our first quarter we can share that our sales are tracking within range this quarter of our community count growth.
Traffic levels remains solid sales per community are pretty consistent with what we saw in Q4.
So we like how we’re positioned and my comments on the growths are more relative to in some locations we’re seeing some pressure on pricing while we’re also seeing some pressure on cost.
So we’re selling homes but in some cases we have to do some things to hold to the sales rate strategy in that community.
And if you go specific to Texas our trends there are very similar to what we’re seeing around the rest of the system our sales per community are holding fine traffic is up its tracking with community council.
We’re seeing no indication of any pull back by the consumer at this time.
We’re sensitive with the Houston situation we are very watchful right now in fact we actually pulled out of a couple of land transactions in the fourth quarter because of our sensitivity there.
So we’re going to keep an eye on it and see how things develop as there is more clarity on the economy there and having said all that I like to kick it to Jeff to give some clarity to what our Houston business really means to our Texas business relative to the whole company.
So it’s been a lot of different number spinning out there.
Relating to Houston I want to clarify a few of the facts that we are seeing some analyst reports trying to estimate the percentage of our business et cetera that’s associated with it.
For 2014 as a percentage of our total housing revenues Houston represented about 8.5% of the total company’s revenues.
So again like many things with the company because of the higher ASP in our West Coast operations although the delivery and the community count in the Houston market were higher it was really only an 8.5% total mix on revenue.
In terms of deliveries it was about 14% and in terms of year end community count it was about 16%.
So that’s one thing we wanted to clarify I think in relation to that business.
So Megan did you have a follow-up? I do.
I just wanted to ask a little bit about your 1Q guidance on revenues 440 to 490 that also sounds like you might have a lower backlog conversion rate in the quarter.
And you talked a little bit about closings coming in lower than expected this quarter.
So is it the same issues impacting you next quarter that did this quarter.
And if you could talk a little bit about that? Well Megan our backlog rotation right now as we looked at it entering the year what our backlog is up its weighted a little more too early stage construction or homes that are about or have now been started but won’t be completed till the second quarter.
So we do expect our backlog conversion to go down relative to prior year.
It’s the way the backlog's positioned and over time you’ll see it get it into a better balance.
Yes I guess I'll just add to that a little bit on the bill times have also seen a slight expansion to bill times which is due what I would say due primarily to the higher price point product that we’re building right now today and to a tighter labor market condition.
So I think the combination of the two factors has impacted our expectations on first quarter backlog conversion.
Our next question is coming from the line of Robert Wetenhall with RBC.
Please go with your question.
Hi guys this is actually Collin filling in for Bob.
So quick question on your long term guidance for your 20% gross margin you said that this is going to be achievable in 2015.
But what would you think your timing expectations for achieving this goal would be? A lot of it Collin will be impacted by market conditions.
From time to time we'll review all the different things that we’re addressing to improve our gross margin and what the message we want to make sure everyone heard is with the -- we’re starting out of the gate lower than we did a year ago.
And with that it makes the 20% a much higher hurdle to get to if your first half is well under that means you have to well over the second half to average 20.
We just don’t think we can do that today.
We assure that we’ll continue to have sequential improvement that remains our near term goal we just don’t think we [can get to 15] [ph].
Our next question comes from the line of Steve Kim with Barclays.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thanks very much guys.
Was wondering first if you could talk a little bit about your comment of reactivating some previously mothball communities and bringing them online.
At around the same time you were saying that you were talking about possibly taking additional impairments and I just wanted to understand a little bit are those two things related in your mind as you reactivate some of these parcels that have been sitting idle for a while and maybe require some longer term investments are you looking sort of reactivate them and sell them or are these completely different parcels that you are referring to for the impairments? Steven in my prepared comments I walked through why we decided to sell the community out in the Palm Springs area.
It would be very cash intensive to develop the market out there is extremely volatile and we could not see ourselves in the near future based on where we’re at today and our strategy to utilize our own cash to grow our business we wouldn’t want to put the kind of dollars that one would have required in the ground and the long term it would take to get it back so it wasn’t consistent with improving our capital efficiencies.
As we look at each asset some could be sold though typically that’s a harder financial hit it will create more value through building things but we may sell something we may build something it’s one phase two phase every asset has its own strategy and each quarter we look at the timing and the potential and the market conditions and how much cash would it take to activate this.
We want to keep [indiscernible] so we can take those dollars and grow our business with higher returns offering.
Right.
I think that strategy Steven is most closely associated with our new initiative of really focusing on asset efficiency as we go into 2015 and I think as Jeff mentioned in the prepared remarks we have been activated communities over the last couple of years and have had very few impairments relating to those activations and we’ll continue to review our balance sheet for monetization opportunities whether they be in build out or in sales as we move forward.
I guess my next question relates to anything you might be seeing in terms of the entry level of the market and sort of what you’re telling your folks there obviously we’re seeing this FHA fee action which would be in effect I guess at the end of the month what are you telling your folks in the field with respect to how to position around that or how to react to any move in demand that would happen do you expect something to happen just if you could talk a little bit about that and the entry level and then one housekeeping thing can I get the homes under construction number for the quarter? Steven within the quarter our first time buyer percentage ticked up a point I think it was basically consistent with what we've seen its higher in Texas than it is in most of our other regions because there's been job growth there and there is population growth and all the things that unlocked the first time buyer.
The FHA insurance premium reduction I’m sure you’ve seen the reports they’re estimating it unlocked another 250 000 buyers both new and used that otherwise wouldn’t have qualified so it’s a meaningful boost to the overall housing market and each city it will have a different impact.
Our current FHA backlog does get the benefit of this reduction and so we have some communication out in the field on how to manage to that so that goes into effect here at the end of January so it helps your current backlog and it clearly changes the payments to qualify on future sales.
So time will tell how big an impact it has today our FHA business is about 30% it’s not much lower than it used to be and I think as you see the first time buyer unlock that will probably go up again but right now it’s less than the a third.
Right on the housekeeping items Steven total net production at the end of the quarter was 3 002.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Stephen East with Evercore please go ahead with your question.
Thank you good morning guys.
Jeff I appreciate you’re walking through what sort of driving it and how you all think this plays out.
If you look at the 1Q where you say you think this will be the bottom I guess what gives you confidence there that 1Q is the bottom and then you grind off of that level? Well for starters Steven you have the leverage side and our first quarter is always our lowest revenue quarter so we have the biggest leverage impact on the fixed portion of our gross margin and as I shared in my comments we’ve been growing in this area so you have a double hit net revenues down while your cost is up.
If you go back to our community count guidance your community count is going to be year-over-year 40 or 50 communities whatever the number is and there is cost associated with that in many cases without the revenue tied to it until the second third or fourth quarter.
So we had this inflexion point where our cost are being hit by overhead and we don’t have the revenue pull through yet.
Yes so you will see that come through as quarters play out over the year.
And on top of that it’s -- the other side that we know as we look at it is the mix of our business in communities opening and communities closing so that’s how we see it today and we’re hopeful of finding upside in the cost areas and the revenue where it's going forward but those two certainly are driving the support for our comments.
Okay and that makes sense and the second question sort of a combined question if you look at your markets let’s take leverage out of the picture for a minute.
When you look at your pricing and incentives versus your cost which would be the bigger driver of reducing gross margins or putting pressure on gross margin? And then historically if just looked between your California margins and the rest of you regions what type of magnitude did you historically see there? I think it’s hard to differentiate between price and cost because we have both going on in any given location.
It’s hard to say it’s just one or the other.
And if you’re in the Bay area and prices are continuing to move up quickly cost are probably hopefully they’re not but they’re probably going up right with it then we have other areas where you have this crossover where costs have increased while pricing in the short run has softened so you have that component going on with it as well.
And if you go back to my prepared comments where we did see in the quarter the inland areas of California were quite a bit softer than they have been while the coastal areas held very well so you have this this dislocation that built up where within the same reporting region for us you have areas like the Bay area where it's as good as it’s ever been while the inland region softened quite a bit.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Dahl with Credit Suisse Group.
Please go ahead with you question.
Just I guess with respect to margins it’s an environment that you’ve acknowledged is increasingly difficult to hit the 20% gross margin and you’ve introduced the new focus on return on capital which isn't necessarily gross margin dependent.
So what makes 20% the right long-term target for KPH I guess what I am getting at is so if you were able to hit your two times [indiscernible] with 18% margin how do you view that trade off right now? Well it’s balanced certainly Mike and we refer to our bottom line and all the components as a property equation and if you can hit an 18% gross but your SG&amp;a is 8 or 9 that’s the same thing as a 20% gross and the higher SG&amp;A.
So with any city we have a balance of those two and we continue to chase leverage we can pull on all of those areas not just one or the other.
Typically in the past in order to achieve our return on invested capital targets you have to have a bottom line around 8% to 10% so it’s how do you get to that bottom line and then play into the return.
Our message is if you go back and think of the components I walk through we had to get to scale because of our cost structure debt structure everything in it we had to get to a higher scale in order to achieve profitability.
And now that we’ve done that and we can mind the cash out of this scale our message is that we can drive our growth through cash generation in our current business.
And therefore we think we can grow our returns while at the same improving our profitability going forward.
Okay thanks and then second question I think Jeff K.
you mentioned that Texas is 16% of communities today if you think about the growth plans for Houston was 16% if you think about the growth plans for 2015 would that number current -- would that percentage currently be expected to increase if so I guess with some of those communities if you were to see any issues how many of them are early on and [indiscernible] amount of dollars in the ground that you could turn it off quickly in response? Thank you.
Right on the community count growth expectations for 2015 Jeff mentioned earlier that we’ve been pretty measured with continued investment in Texas and while we intend to continue to invest in open communities I think on a net basis we’ll see a relatively flat community count in Texas in total and Houston in particular in 2015 so we’re taking a measured approach.
We’ll see what happens and develops in the market.
I certainly won't expect our exposure there to increase into 2015 and hold right around that 8% or 9% of total company revenues as we go into the year.
Our next question is coming from the line of Ivy Zelman of Zelman and Associates.
Please proceed with your question.
I think it would helpful if you could maybe dive a little bit deeper you talked about some of the market differentiation with the Inland flowing there has been some discussion that the Phoenix market is improving and the Bay Area remains really red hot maybe with respect to the trends do you expect home prices on an apple-to-apple basis? Do you still show increases and are you concerning about coastal California Southern California where we’re hearing that Asian buyers are starting to pull back as it's harder to pull money out of China.
Are you hearing anything that would confirm that? And how do we think about the trajectory given markets like southern [indiscernible] have been so strong in the coastal areas.
Just an overall kind of sense of the market specific might be really helpful for everyone.
One of the things that we’ve seen the trend we’ve picked up on I think relative to Orange County there has been a pull back on the new home side with the Chinese buyer and these people are heavily controlled by realtors that they’re comfortable doing business with.
Where the realtors are taking them today is the resale side in that the new home pricing in ’14 increased pretty significantly in those areas and retail became a more attractive opportunity in the eyes of the realtor and the consumer.
So I don’t know if that’s the typical push pull in the market and as resale pricing goes up which it has now in the last 60 days in Orange County it’s been moving up.
So it could just be the competitive push pull and at some point they'll come back to the new home side.
It’s hard to say whether it’s a short term move or the competitive pressure from other builders but in the Inland Empire or Central Valley up Northern California we saw a big increase incentives and price pressures.
And I don’t know if there is people closing out their year closing out communities and we’re watchful we’ll see how the New Year unfolds here.
And relative to Phoenix we are seeing improved demand in Phoenix.
We’re not that large there but we’re seeing improved demand there.
I think you will see activity levels go up before you will see a lot of price in Phoenix.
Those people need to work through their assets.
Vegas I'd say is okay demand is good.
We don’t see prices moving but there is demand there.
So it’s a mixed bag interestingly in Texas our pricing is favorable right now we’re not seeing any price pressures in our Texas business here.
So if you go around the country it’s a mixed bag and the good areas are still good and the bad areas had a little tougher.
Just as a follow up on really appreciating the dynamics of what’s happening in certain Texas areas concerned about the headwinds.
Your same store sales per community were down in the Central region just modestly and you indicated that you expect growth to be just really driven by the new stores and new communities [indiscernible].
So when you're thinking about level of same store being where it is right now how much [indiscernible] same store in order to resume margin expansion or you said that you will not select for strategically trying to increase same store if it means negatively impacting the margin.
So that relationship strategically how should we think about it? I think as we look at it as always we look at it on a community by community basis across the business and we currently have communities that are running very well and running above pace or above forecasted pace of those communities and we’re taking pricing actions within those communities.
And we’ve had communities on the other side of that spectrum as well.
So I think it’s important to understand how we’re running the business and it's really done at the division level and even more detailed at the community level beyond that.
The pace so far in the first quarter we’re pretty happy with as Jeff mentioned it’s tracking very closely back to little of our community count growth expectations for the quarter.
So there's good signs for the spring and we’ll continue to monitor spring selling conditions and hopefully start capturing back some of that margin improvement as we go.
The next question is from the line of Susan Berliner of JPMorgan.
Please proceed with your question.
Just wanted to I guess speak about the spec strategy with the marketplace if you’re contemplating changing.
And I guess in Houston since it’s such a big relocation market if you can I guess just discuss where your specs are in the Houston market and where you see that trending over the year? Susan we remain committed to our built to order model.
And we’re heavily weighted to [indiscernible].
We always have some inventory that’s hanging around whether it’s a cancellation after start a multifamily community or if we have sold out of a colder sack except for three lives we may start those three just to clean it up.
So there is always some level of inventory in our business.
And as we cope through the year our inventory sales are our most difficult sales.
Our sales team our management teams everybody's we take the view that building a home of the customer’s choice is the way to go.
And there is a lot of value to that.
And if it's in Houston and you can build a home there pretty quickly it’s one of our faster build times we will retain the value of the built to order over the risk of a spec every time.
In our fourth quarter I shared that we did have some margin compression on inventory sales that we had achieved in order to deliver what we did but it’s not a large component of our business we’re going to stick to our strategy of built to order.
And regarding your question on specs Susan we’re maintaining right now about two finished specs per community across the business.
I don’t think the Houston division varies significantly from that.
I don’t have the information in front of me but I think its right around the same metric.
Great.
And I just had a follow up I guess on the inland empire I guess what was the change was it the Chinese buyer was there anything else that you could discern from the slow down there? Well there is a repeal that occurs when Orange County softened a little and it did and I do think it was in part the Chinese buyer demand soften it ripples inland and the further inland you go the more the ripple is felt.
So we have -- there are some areas in the far eastern and I’d say of the inland empire not to Palm Springs but say 60-70 miles from the coast where there has been price pressure new and used on the magnitude of 8% or 10% in the last six months where prices went down that much so it hit pretty hard out there it’s not where you have a big business it’s not where you’re investing today but if you have communities open that you’re working through it have an impact and it’s the typical ebb and flow as Orange County settles it will slowly settle back inland and I don’t know that it’s a fundamental structural shift.
It's just some short term market dynamics that we’re facing.
And coming back to your question we did just check the number.
We're actually a little bit below the company average in Houston the company average being two per community we're a bit below that in in the Houston market was finished specs.
Thank you.
Next question is coming from the line of [indiscernible] of Deutsche Bank.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks.
On the impairments I think investors think of it as normal if you have a few call it fine tuning impairments maybe 1 million 2 million 3 million per quarter obviously this quarter you mentioned the drivers of the more significant impairments but you also mentioned that with the return on capital strategy there could be future impairment.
So saying that in a quarter or drawing that out in a quarter where the impairments rose to more than 30 million I think probably has some people thinking that there could be large amounts like we have this quarter and future quarters as well.
I know it’s difficult to tell.
Obviously you do the project evaluation then you figured out as you go but maybe if you could just give us some sense of what you mean by that do you mean that there will be significant impairments in the ball park of what we saw this quarter in future quarters or what exactly did you mean by that statement? What we meant Steven is that we’ll evaluate it on a community by community basis and we want to put the proper I guess framework around it for the street.
We are very serious about improving our return on invested capital.
We’ll be looking at modernization of various assets on the balance sheet.
As Jeff mentioned we activated over 30 communities over the past couple of years and had a very low level of impairment.
We did have a higher impairment quarter this quarter but we did not mean to imply that that would be normal on a go forward basis.
I think it was just a cautionary statement that there could be additional impairments in the future as we pursue that strategy but not necessarily saying you should model certainly not model in impairments at level that we saw in this most recent quarter.
Okay thanks.
That’s very helpful.
And second question there have been a lot of questions about the Texas already.
I wanted to dig-in in the little more detail I’m sure you’re keeping a very close pulse on it forward looking indicator.
So you wouldn’t have expected just because oil prices going headline instead you would have seen demand fall apart already but maybe forward looking indicators as you talk to your folks on the ground in Houston and in other parts of Texas as well traffic anecdotally sentiment maybe in the move up segment which might be expected to see more of a headline awareness anything forward looking that you have gathered in terms of the pulse you’re keeping in the market that leads you to lean one way or the other for the next couple of quarters.
We’re always watchful the issue of traffic trends and if some company had a round of layoffs we hear about that pretty quickly and that’s a data point that you don’t want to ignore.
As I looked at our book of business in preparation of the call I would say that our first time buyer communities are lower priced are more value oriented products are selling better in Houston today and it could be that the higher priced buyer is often a little bit I don’t know but as we shared right now the consumer performance is pretty typical we’re not seeing any signs that they’re pulling back.
Right.
And I think the best forward indictors that we have right now is sort of quarter to date sales performance in Houston and Texas and in the central region in general has been pretty strong.
I mean it’s tracking right along our community count growth.
And the traffic in the first quarter in the central region was up nicely versus prior year both on a per community basis and overall basis.
So we’re not seeing the indications right now although with all the news and the concerns that [indiscernible] economically on the state I’d like to say that we’re facing and looking at a evaluating it in on a measured basis.
We’re not overly bullish on it but up to this point we really haven’t seen much impact from all the headline news that you would think.
The next question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut JPMorgan.
Please go with your question.
Most of my questions have been answered.
I guess just wanted to circle back to some comments that you have made over the last 12 18 months about some of the asset purchases and overall portfolio shift that you’ve kind of work referred to in terms of the land investment strategy that you’ve done and in particular I am thinking about some of the asset purchases that you’ve highlighted in California Plum Creek for example also the reactivation of Inspirada and some of the Vegas properties there which you’ve referred to has a good cost basis and what I am trying to get to is with this kind of pushing out of the 20% gross margin goal it would have seen that before and you kind us walk through what the drivers were in terms of the gross margin outlook for the next few quarters and the fact that you are behind caught right now by a little bit of softer pricing relative to cost but it would have seen that at the same time you would have had some positive momentum in this portfolio shift from some of these purchases again that I mentioned I guess the question here is are those -- were those assets generating a 20% gross margin or better have things changed or -- and was the goal of achieving 20% in some ways dependent on price inflation? Because it appears that there is something a little bit off relative to the expectations 12 months ago? Mike as we’ve always share with this group we don’t underwrite with inflation we don’t -- I always take the view if your price goes up your cost go up with it and if you link this to the comments we’ve made on the pressure in [duress] [ph] if we acquired community we underwrite a community developed the last open it for sale on the western side of the inland empire as an example.
And you get a point of price pressure and a point or two of cost pressure you're not at the 20% margin it's not that you underwrote you’ve had some changes in the input data I’ll say from when you acquired it.
And the other thing that goes on and Jeff touched on it we had a couple of communities close out in the fourth quarter that were acquisitions in California that we made back in ’12 where in some cases that were finished lots and you build through those and in the typical life cycle of a quarter it will open up at or below the 20% as you get momentum in the community and it will close out well above 20% that’s what happened with those that closed out in the fourth quarter.
And we have this turnover going on where a lot of communities are closing out and the new ones are opening up at lower margins and we expect that they mature and we get into the year and they are open longer that you’ll see the margin with.
Well I appreciate that I guess with some of those the Plum Creek and the others that you had highlighted until last Analyst Day are the margins expectations are intact as we sit here today in terms of I would assume being above 20% and perhaps if you can also talk about Las Vegas and what the contribution might be there over the next couple of years if that as that business perhaps grows relative to the overall mix of closings would that also be a positive contributor to your margin mix? Mike when you touched on Plum Creek and you said is it over 20% we just opened it in the fourth quarter and we never said when we bought it it was over 20%.
So I can tell you it's not over 20% today but for the most part our new acquisitions are performing within a range some are better some are not as good as when we underwrote them and that’s part of your portfolio of business and you are keep flagging things when you are below and capitalize on when you're above.
When it comes to Las Vegas as I mentioned in a comment before the market is holding well for us Inspirada in particular is selling very well right now.
And if you think of Vegas and relative to what my comment on the seasoning of communities and how they are open a little under but they'll exceed overtime and that happened with some that closed out in the fourth quarter.
If you go to Vegas we closed out a lot of communities in the first quarter of last year where we had previously had a lot of price run up on assets that we had purchased opportunistically below cost of replacement and we had some very very strong margins in Vegas Q1 of last year well above 20%.
And as you watch Inspirada which is now open and I think we’re just now getting into deliveries out there it will become a big part of that business you’ll see it lift our margin in Las Vegas if not for the company.
Thank you.
At this time I will turn the floor back to management for closing comments.
Okay.
I'd again like to thank everyone for joining us on the call today.
And we look forward to sharing our success in the future as the year unfolds.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And this concludes today's teleconference.
You may now disconnect your lines at this time.
And we thank you for your participation.
Good morning.
My name is Rob and I will be your conference operator today.
I would like to welcome everyone to the KB Home 2015 First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Today's conference is being recorded and a live webcast is available on KB Home's Web site at kbhome.com.
Following the company's opening remarks we will open the lines for questions.
KB Home's discussion today may include forward-looking statements that reflect management's current views and expectations of market conditions future events and the company's business performance.
These statements are not guarantees of future results and the company does not undertake any obligation to update them.
Due to a number of factors outside of its control including those identified in its SEC filings the company's actual results could be materially different from those expressed and/or implied by the forward-looking statements.
A reconciliation of non-GAAP measures referenced during today's discussion to their most directly comparable GAAP measures can be found in the company's earnings release issued earlier today and/or on the Investor Relations page of the company's Web site.
At this time I will now turn the call over to Jeff Mezger President and CEO for KB Home.
Mr.
Mezger you may begin.
Thank you Rob.
Thank you everyone for joining us on our call today as we review our first quarter results.
With me are Jeff Kaminski Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Bill Hollinger Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer; and Thad Johnson Senior Vice President and Corporate Treasurer.
I will begin the call with an overview of our results and the solid progress we are making on many fronts as we position our company for accelerated growth in revenue and profits.
Next I will provide some comments on our three key strategic initiative to grow our community count expand revenue per community and enhance profitability per unit along with our increased focus on improving our return on investment.
Following this I will share a few remarks on the macro environment after which Jeff Kaminski will provide specific details on our financial performance.
Then I will make some closing comments before opening up the call to your questions.
For our first quarter our growth in revenue net orders and backlog clearly illustrate that our investment and growth strategies are working.
We are entering the second quarter with momentum as we expect further growth in community count again this quarter which positions us well as we enter the spring selling season where the initial indications of demand have been encouraging.
We have remained diligent in driving community count growth which requires not just the investment in land and land development but also the investment in additional field overhead necessary to open each community and commence selling homes.
These initial startup costs have a negative impact on both our gross profit margin and our SG&amp;A expense ratio that will diminish over time as these communities convert orders into revenue.
Over the last two quarters we have celebrated 72 community grand openings and ended our first quarter with 235 communities opened for sale a 25% increase from the 188 communities opened at the end of the first quarter of last year.
As a result of this successful ramp up in community count 2015 will be a tale of two halves.
With the first half focused on driving additional community openings and continued growth in orders and backlog and the second half focused on sustaining our momentum while realizing the substantial benefit of increased revenues from our expanded platform.
Looking ahead we expect significant revenue growth creating leverage that will drive improved ratios and much higher earnings.
For the year we are now projecting housing revenue in the range of $2.8 billion to $3.1 billion.
Turning now to highlights from the first quarter.
We generated $580 million in revenues an increase of 29% over the prior year including two land sales totaling $53 million.
We reported $525 million in housing revenue reflecting an increase of 19% year-over-year driven by 10% growth in the number of homes delivered and an 8% increase in our average selling price which came in at just under $330 000.
Our pretax income of $10.5 million was roughly flat with the prior year and we reported net income of $7.8 million.
We were pleased with our net order value which increased 25% to $753 million on 2189 net orders.
The net order increase of 24% was consistent with our growth in average community count which was up 22%.
Net orders per community were on par with the prior year as we continue to balance price and pace at each community in order to optimize returns.
Our quarter end backlog value rose to $1.1 billion a 30% increase over the prior year and is our highest first quarter backlog level since 2008.
Our investment strategy is working and we have now achieved 14 consecutive quarters of year-over-year revenue growth.
Along the way we remain diligent in our actions regarding our three key strategic initiatives of increasing our community count expanding revenue per community and enhancing profitability per unit.
While we continue driving these three initiatives we have expanded our strategic focus to also include an emphasis on improving our return on investment.
We intend to fund our future growth through a more efficient use of our assets and also through the reinvestment of our growing profits.
Consistent with earlier guidance our housing gross profit margin was tempered in the quarter coming in at 15.1% versus 17.7% a year ago.
We are very committed to raising our gross margin and expect to significantly narrow the year-over-year gap in gross margin percentage by the end of the year.
With the seasonal nature of home sales and our built to order approach the first quarter is always our lowest revenue quarter and in turn our lower gross profit margin quarter due to lost leverage on field overhead.
This year our first quarter gross margins also reflected the softer market conditions we were experiencing when these sales were written last fall.
We continue to take action on all of the revenue and cost levers available to improve this metric.
Since the first of the year we have been successful in raising our selling prices in most of our markets.
On the cost side we have reduction targets in place in every division and we are measuring our progress on a weekly basis.
While we continue to take these steps to improve our gross margin our efforts to contain overheard while growing our topline have been effective.
Our SG&amp;A expense ratio improved to 13.5% for the quarter and we expect sequential improvement over the balance of the year.
Taken together our actions to improve our gross margin while containing our SG&amp;A expenses and accelerating our revenue will result in significant earnings growth in the second half of the year.
Now moving on to land.
We currently own or control all of the land and lots necessary to achieve our growth delivery targets for 2015 and 2016.
We will continue to invest in additional upside opportunities for 2016 and beyond while working on ways to enhance our returns.
As part of this effort we will from time to time identify opportunities to sell land or lots.
We have seasoned land teams in place that have the skills necessary to create value through the entitlement and development process.
This allows us to acquire land parcels in desirable areas that maybe larger than we need retain the portion necessary to support our growth targets and sell any excess.
This was the case in our first quarter during which we sold land in the Bay Area and in Austin.
Our ability to identify unique opportunities like this has and will continue to be a core part of our business.
We are also working on improving our returns through activating and opening communities previously held for future development.
Over the past two years we have now opened 41 such communities which are producing incremental profit while generating cash which we then in turn reinvest in our business.
We are targeting at least 15 additional communities that we intend to activate later this year.
Now I would like to share a few comments regarding home community mortgage our mortgage joint venture.
HCM's execution continued to improve in the first quarter and as a result our deliveries were more predictable than they have been in quite some time.
The quality of our backlog management is also improving as a result of HCM's execution as evidenced by our lower cancellation rate in the quarter.
These factors came into play in driving upside to our first quarter delivery projections and I am hopeful these trends will continue in the future.
HCM generated a profit for the second consecutive quarter and we expect further growth in profits as we work to increase our capture rate on our growing delivery volume.
While it has taken time HCM is starting to evolve into the business opportunity we envisioned when it was formed.
Turning now to the economy and housing trends.
By most metrics the national economy is continuing to strengthen whether you consider job growth the unemployment rate GDP growth or consumer confidence.
At the same time mortgage rates and affordability remain favorable.
Resale inventories levels are low price appreciation continues and the share of home sales that are distressed has declined.
There have also been recent reports published regarding the acceleration of household formation as millennials are finding jobs in the improving economy and moving out on their own.
This age group is also now entering their prime home buying years which could create significant demand going forward.
The housing recovery is gaining traction with plenty of runway before we reach normalized volume levels.
Our increasing traffic is a strong indication that demand is on the rise.
While our average community count was up 22% year-over-year in the first quarter our traffic levels were up 46%.
We believe that this acceleration in traffic can be attributed to not only improved housing fundamentals but also the favorable response to our new community openings which feature the right products in the right locations.
As I often say housing markets are very localized with each sub-market demonstrating its own strength or weakness and that is certainly the case in our business today.
In California the Bay Area is very strong with solid job and income growth occurring in an area with limited housing supply.
Our net orders in the Bay Area were the primary driver of our positive order comp in our West Coast region.
In Southern California the coastal area is showing a real uptick in demand after a soft fourth quarter and there are indications that the strengthening demand is starting to ripple inland once again.
We are particularly pleased with our strong order comp in our Southwest region.
Las Vegas continues to be one of our best performers in net orders per community in a market demonstrating strong demand.
We are also seeing encouraging signs in Phoenix where we are working to expand our community count in a market that is stabilized and improving.
Our central region continues to perform well.
There has been a lot of new coverage on the impact of declining oil prices on jobs and housing in Texas.
At this time we are not seeing any evidence of a slowdown in demand.
While the central region was up a solid 15% in net orders Houston's results actually exceeded the region's average.
Having said this we remain cautious as we continue to gauge how things play out with oil and the local economies.
In our southeast region we also experienced improving traffic and order trends and we are encouraged by the 18% year-over-year growth in net orders.
In closing we continue to build momentum in our business as we accelerate our growth in net orders and backlog which is being driven by our community count growth.
We are very encouraged with the early indications of the strength of the spring selling season and are well positioned to capitalize on this demand.
Now I will hand the call over to Jeff Kaminski for a detailed review of our financial results.
Jeff? Thank you Jeff and good morning.
During the first quarter we continued to execute on our key strategic initiatives.
Our current quarter results particularly our revenues generally reflected improved operational performance and healthy market condition.
We believe we are well positioned for the spring selling season and to realize improvements in our financial metrics as the year progresses.
We expect the improvements will be more pronounced in the latter part of the year leading to a strong second half.
Now I will provide more detail on our first quarter financial performance as well as our expectations for the remainder of the year.
Our first quarter housing revenues of approximately $525 million grew 19% from the same quarter of last year extending our track record of year-over-year revenue growth to 14 consecutive quarters.
The current quarter revenue performance exceeded our expectations due primarily to strong operational execution in completing and closing more homes than we anticipated which pulled forward certain deliveries that were previously forecasted for the second quarter.
Improved execution by Home Community Mortgage during the quarter also contributed to our revenue result.
We delivered 1593 homes in the first quarter representing a conversion rate of 55% of beginning backlog.
For the second quarter we anticipate a conversion rate in the low 50s on a beginning backlog of 3505 units and housing revenues in a range of $580 million to $615 million.
We realized a $6 million gain on land sales of $53 million in the current quarter compared to a $1 million gain in land sales of $8 million in the prior year quarter.
We are actively pursuing opportunities to selectively monetize other land positions as part of our focus on improving asset efficiency.
At this time we are targeting land sales in the range of $100 million for the full year.
During the first quarter our overall average selling price increased to approximately $330 000 up 8% from the same quarter in 2014 reflecting a shift in our geographic mix of deliveries and generally favorable conditions in our served markets.
Going forward we currently expect our average selling price to advance sequentially in each remaining quarter of 2015.
We anticipate that on a year-over-year basis both our quarterly and full year average selling prices will increase in the mid-to high single-digit range.
Our housing gross profit margin was 15.1% in the first quarter of 2015 as compared to 17.7% in the year earlier quarter.
Excluding the amortization of previously capitalized interest and land option contract abandonment charges in each period our first quarter adjusted housing gross profit margin was 19.5% in 2015 down 230 basis points compared to 21.8% in 2014.
We continue to focus on enhancing our housing gross profit margin and expect to realize sequential improvement in each of the remaining quarters of 2015.
For Q2 we are projecting a sequential increase of approximately 50 basis points.
For the second half of the year we anticipate stronger sequential improvements of approximately 100 basis points in the third quarter and 100 to 150 basis points in the fourth quarter.
Our selling general and administrative expense ratio for the quarter improved 40 basis points to 13.5% compared to 13.9% a year ago.
The favorable leverage impact of higher revenues in the quarter more than offset increased expenses that we incurred primarily to support community count growth higher first quarter deliveries and our anticipated increase in homes delivered in the second half of 2015.
Historically our first quarter expense ratio is higher than in other quarters during the year.
We expect to see sequential improvement in our SG&amp;A expense ratio for the remainder of this year particularly in the third and fourth quarters.
Our first quarter average community count of 231 was up 22% from the same period a year ago which held fuel double-digit year-over-year increases in our net orders and net order value.
During the quarter we opened 32 new communities including seven communities previously held for future development.
As part of our asset efficiency initiatives we plan to continue to evaluate our land held for future development in order to reactivate additional communities and we currently plan to open another 10 to 15 of these communities by the end of the year.
In the first quarter we also closed out of 24 communities.
We ended the quarter with 235 communities open for sales up 25% from 188 communities a year earlier.
We continue to anticipate our full-year average community count will increase in the range of 15% to 20% versus 2014 depending on sales absorption rates and the resulting timing of community closeouts.
The increase in our average community count in the quarter reflects a strong inventory pipeline we have built through higher investments in land and land development over the past few years.
During the quarter we invested $202 million in land and land development.
Approximately 73% of our total investment in the quarter related to land development compared to about 37% a year ago reflecting our emphasis on advancing the conversion of our own land into new home communities open for sales in 2015.
Our total owned and controlled lot count at quarter end was 50 666.
Approximately 81% of these lots were owned compared to 69% owned lots in our portfolio a year ago.
We are continuing to target $1.1 billion to $1.4 billion of land and land development investment in 2015 which we believe will support our revenue growth objectives.
Turning now to our balance sheet.
We currently intend to retire the remaining $200 million of our June 2015 notes at their maturity during our third quarter.
At this time we believe this is the most effective way to handle this maturity due to the make-whole call provision and estimated administrative expenses associated with an early retirement.
With the public issuance of $250 million of senior notes in February we already have the cash on hand for the retirement.
As a result of the incremental interest that will be incurred our interest expense in the second quarter will increase sequentially by approximately $4 million before declining for the remaining quarters of the year following the debt retirement.
In conclusion we are working toward a strong finish for 2015 as we continue to execute on our top strategic initiatives.
Looking ahead we believe we will post improvements in most of our financial metrics particularly during the second half of the year when we expect to begin realizing greater revenues from our recent and planned growth in community count.
We expect housing revenues in the range of $2.8 billion to $3.1 billion for the full year.
This accelerated housing revenue growth is anticipated to provide favorable operating leverage for both our housing gross profit margin and SG&amp;A expense ratio results and is also expected to drive strong improvements in our pretax earnings in the third and fourth quarters of 2015.
Now I will turn the call back over to Jeff for his final remarks.
Thanks Jeff.
Before we conclude I would like to take a moment to thank the employees at KB home who work diligently each day to advance our goals as a company.
I would also like to highlight our key messages for today.
The housing recovery is gaining traction with most major data points trending positive.
We are now seeing indications of increased household formation which has been at historically low levels for many years.
If this trend holds it will be a real driver of increased demand.
We ended the first quarter with our highest first quarter backlog levels since 2008 at $1.1 billion and a community count that was up 25% year-over-year.
The early signs of spring selling season have been very encouraging and we are well positioned to take advantage of this demand.
While the gross profit margin was tempered in the first quarter we have action plans in place for improvement and expect to significantly narrow the year-over-year gap by the end of the year.
Our investment and product strategies are working as we sustain one of the highest absorption rates per community in the industry while continuing to raise our average selling prices.
The execution levels of Home Community Mortgage continued to improve resulting in a more predictable delivery cycle a better quality backlog and the potential for profits as capture rates increase.
We are positioned for accelerated revenue growth in the second half of the year which will create additional leverage with our ratios and result in significant earnings growth.
We are continuing to invest in our future growth and will support this initiative through improved asset efficiency and reinvesting our profits.
Finally we are now projecting housing revenue for the year in the range of $2.8 billion to $3.1 billion.
With our growth platform in place and with more community openings on the way we have momentum and are well positioned for a strong finish to 2015.
Now let's open up the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of Michael Dahl with Credit Suisse.
Please proceed with your question.
Jeff Jeff M.
wondering if you could elaborate a little bit more on some of the comments about formation and seeing signs of a pickup.
I mean clearly we've all seen the census data but that's notoriously volatile and I think a lot of that's coming in or all of it's coming in rental.
So wondering if you can just talk to your own business this spring.
Are you seeing an increase in your first time buyer percentages? If so how broad-based is it? Mike I would say we see a slight uptick in some of our regions.
It's not broad-based it's incremental.
I think our first time buyer percent in the quarter was 50% of our sales.
So it's in the range of what we have been seeing.
We are certainly seeing with the traffic increase a lot of people that are out for the first time looking around.
I don’t know that we can share that we have seen a big swell in sales to the first time home buyers yet but it's an encouraging trend.
And I agree the data is always subject to revisions.
The consistency and the uptick over the last couple of quarters would suggest that it's a real trend and we will see.
To me it's really the missing link in a fulsome and sustained housing recovery.
And I think if you look at the statistics it's been running at about 50% of historical levels for eight or nine years now so it's an incredible pent up demand that seems to be starting to get unlocked.
Right.
Okay.
And if you look at or you listen to some of the feedback from your sales associates are some of the changes in existing programs or some of the new programs like the 97% down GSE stuff or the 50 basis point reduction in FHA premiums.
What type of feedback are you hearing on those? A little bit of feedback favorable on the 97% more favorable feedback on the reduction in the mortgage insurance premium.
That was a real payment reduction for the buyer that needs it the most.
So it has helped our [business] [ph] line.
I think good examples are central region where we do a higher percentage of FHA business.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Wetenhall with RBC.
Please proceed with your question.
Congratulations on what's undeniably a really good quarter and a great way to start the year.
I like the momentum.
The revenue guide is really a lot higher than we were looking for and thanks for the detail.
Trying to understand two questions.
One what are you thinking about your 20% gross margin target when you can get there? What needs to happen and how should we think about that from timing? That's my first question.
Well Bob our number was a disappointment as you know in the fourth quarter and here in the first quarter.
And we have got a lot of steps in place to improve on every sale and also we have got a lot of leverage coming.
We shared in our prepared comments we will close the gap on the prior year's gross margin by -- narrow the gap by the end of the year.
But if you just do the math if we are starting out of 15.1% we are not going to hit 20% in 2015 and that’s why we gave the guidance we had.
Still our goal and we will see how things progress with the strength of demand and what we can do on the cost side.
Okay.
I wanted to just think understand a little bit better taking some ideas from your Investor Day.
Are you managing for return on invested capital and what are the right kind of milestones? You obviously have some nice momentum going on and it sounds like you are committed towards getting higher levels of profitability.
Is this a return on invested capital improvement story? And for Jeff Kaminski how should we think about free cash flow? You're obviously investing heavily in communities but it sounds like you're pretty happy with the land position.
Give us a better way to think about that.
Thanks a lot.
Bob let me make a few comments and then I will kick it to Jeff K.
If you look at the journey we have been on over the last couple of years you have to have profitability to have returns on investment.
And our top priority for a few years was to grow the top line back grow into our balance sheet and our debt get back to the scale that we are capable of in the markets we are in and restore and in turn grow profitability.
We accomplished all that in '14.
Now as we move forward in '15 it's more of a balanced approach where we intend to keep growing the top line keep providing more leverage keep growing our profitability and use our balance sheet to mine the cash needed to support and fuel our future growth.
And if you think about it it's not just the balance of your inventory turns in these communities that we are unlocking it's the cash we will be generating not just from our earnings but the shelter on the tax on the earnings.
As we continue to grow profits that’s a significant cash opportunity for us to fuel our future growth.
So we have a nice combination of many things working both on the P&amp;L side and on the returns side.
It's a dual approach for us.
Yes.
In response to your question on the cash flow you know basically echoing some of Jeff's comments we are intending to fund our land investment with internally generated funds this year.
We are serious about our capital targets that we talked to a lot last conference call 40% to 50% leverage target that we are holding ourselves to.
And we believe we have land in place right now that can grow the business in line with our objectives.
So we are in pretty good shape on cash.
We are managing it closely and we like the outlook for the remainder of the year.
Does that mean you guys could be potentially cash flow neutral to positive? That means yes we intend to fund the land that we invest in this year with internally generated funds.
So yes it means exactly that in that neighborhood.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut with JPMorgan.
Please proceed with your question.
First question I had was on just kind of going back to the gross margins for a moment if possible.
Now that the dust has settled after the 4Q results and the resetting of guidance and expectations around your trajectory for gross margins over the next year or so I was hoping to get some more color or clarity around the investment process that occurred over the last couple years and some of the underwriting hurdles that you apply as you underwrote the land over the last couple years and how you are doing it going forward.
And specifically what I'm asking is around the fact that over the past year or two when there was that guidance around achieving or even exceeding the 20% gross margin target it appeared that the land that was underwritten was done with that in mind.
And as the land was converted into closing from more coastal areas or closer to in the core where there was a higher price point let's say or scarcer demand or just better-positioned community that those would naturally lead to a mix shift into that 20% range.
So just want to understand the land that was bought in '12 and '13 was that either not written to the 20% or were there other factors that just drove that number down as you're monetizing that land today? And how you think about underwriting with that 20% in mind going forward.
Michael as you know there is a lot of moving parts to a gross profit margin so you can't point to one event or one trend and say that’s what lifting it or that’s what's draining it.
And I can tell you from an underwriting perspective we have been very consistent in our underwriting with what we call a 20-20 rule.
20% gross 20% IRR and have continued that discipline throughout.
As you look at our business we have -- one of the frustrations for me has been the delays in getting the new communities open.
And a lot of the land we bought in '13 is just now frankly opening for sales and we will see how they perform in the first stage of deliveries whatever.
But you have a combination of -- in many of our markets our cost of build went up faster frankly than we could move price.
So we have some margin erosion on the cost of build.
You have these activations that are on average probably a little less than our company average margin.
So you have a little bit of that.
If you think of having 40 some communities open today with field overhead that you didn’t have year ago that haven't produced deliveries yes you have another drain on your gross margin.
And as we typically open a community your first few sales will be a little below your hurdle.
So you are getting momentum going and then you get your backlog going and you lift margins and then the last half or last two-thirds of the community will be above your pro forma.
So it depends on the timing of when communities open and hit first delivery.
So you have all these different things influencing the gross profit margin.
And then in the sales we had in the fourth quarter we saw some real pressure in some of our markets on the revenue side where things softened.
And we will do the things we have to to optimize the asset and that played a little bit of a part in it.
So together you have a confluence of things.
As this year unfolds you will see us clear out and elevate and we have got plans in place as I shared in a lot of ways to continue to get back to our stated goal of the 20%.
We are not going to get there in '15 but it's still our goal and we are committed to getting it.
Anything else you want to add to that Jeff? Okay.
No I thank for that answer Jeff.
I appreciate it.
And I guess the second question you referred to in your answer just now some of the perhaps competitive activity in the fourth quarter or pressure on revenues and whatnot that colored your view of 2015 when you gave the guidance.
In your prepared remarks today you referred to in 2015 that you were able to raise prices across most of your markets.
I was hoping if you could give and I'm sure the answer obviously varies by market but if you have any sense of like a rough average or the majority percent increase in base prices that you were able to achieve.
And if you could also give any color directionally in terms of incentives or discounts on the order trends so far this year how that's going.
Well you are absolutely right Mike that it's hard to give you a percent.
Because it will literally vary by community in the same sub-market let alone the same cities same state same region.
I can tell you in the Bay Area we have been able to push price more than we have in the Inland Empire in California.
And that’s a good [indiscernible] example of an incredibly strong market versus one that’s in recovery.
And we keep maintain this approach of balancing price and pace to optimize the return.
The worst thing you can do is stop selling.
So you try to identify what's the best sales pace to optimize that asset get your money out get your returns and at what price.
And we are constantly toggling.
You know if it's a softer submarket we could take $500 or $1000 price increase and if we keep selling we will take another $500 or $1000.
In the Bay Area you can take significantly more than that on every phase that you release.
Every handful of lots that you release.
So as I shared in most of our markets we have been able to take price this year.
And at the same time we are not an incentive heavy company in the first place so again in our financials our incentives are a point or a point and half.
We focus more on giving people the best price as opposed to more incentives and we don’t do a lot of that.
So our pricing as it moves around is a pretty good proxy of consumer demand because we don’t move up and down with incentives too much.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Stephen Kim with Barclays.
Please proceed with your question.
Congratulations on a good quarter.
Wanted to ask about a comment you made Jeff Mezger early on.
I think you mentioned on the cost side we have reduction targets in place in every division and we're measuring our progress on a weekly basis and I think you expressed some optimism about the way the cost control has been going.
So just wanted to see if we could get a little bit more color in terms of sort of are you talking specific product? Do you have specific products in mind where you have been able to achieve some savings and if so what general categories? I don't need names of companies or anything but just kind of names of categories would be helpful.
And if you could break out your comments there versus the land compared to the -- sorry the labor versus the products that would be great.
Well Stephen as you know as you have watched our company for many years we have a lot of standardized product series where the elevation may vary from city to city but the walls and the plumbing and the electrical are all identical.
And as a result of that you can get your purchasing teams in a room for all the divisions in Texas.
So for Arizona and Vegas and compare notes and you can always find best practices where one division does it better than another and in the meeting the divisions that recognize the opportunity can walk out of the meeting with an action item that will help them do a better job in their direct cost.
So through that best practice sharing where we have got some reporting and tracking we know week to week where we are making progress.
What we are seeing at a high level some of the commodities like lumber have come down others there is still pressure like sheet rock and concrete.
But I think lumber has been a little bit of a benefit compared to the other commodities.
And in some markets we are seeing the benefit of more labor returning to the marketplace.
Whether it's a slowdown in apartments a slowdown oil drilling what it maybe we are seeing more labor come back and you have this supply demand equilibrium where if there is more people who want to do your work you can get a little better price.
And lastly I would share that we are starting to see some benefit of gas prices going down in distribution or commute times frankly for contractors as well.
So there is no one major drop that we are seeing but a lot of little things can turn to a point or two of margin over time if you are good.
And I would say on average that we are seeing some softening in the cost pressures that we were experiencing in Q3 and Q4.
Yes Stephen just to add to that a little bit.
The purchasing folks in the company are working pretty hard like Jeff said we are having these some of these combined meetings.
I was talking to our head of purchasing earlier this week and he described our first quarter as being sort of the best first quarter as far as cost containment goes in quite a few years.
And what we typically see early part of the year is a lot of inflationary pressure on cost.
We have been able to play that quite effectively both because of the gasoline price drop which has allowed us to call back some of the surcharges that we were having as well as some of the value engineering changes that have frankly taken some time to get in place and we are starting to see some results coming from that.
So we had a really nice first quarter and we are optimistic about continuing to maintain that throughout the year.
Great.
Thanks for that.
And Jeff Kaminski I guess that comment that you just made that relates to things that are sort of in the pipeline right? Not necessarily things that closed in the quarter I assume.
It's correct.
That’s correct.
Right.
Okay.
My next question relates to land.
Did you have by chance -- I missed it -- the land spend number broken out between acquisition and development? And then another housekeeping item or sorry and then also regarding land.
You had land sales this quarter.
You're talking about $100 million for the year profitability.
Should we look at this quarter and think that the profitability you saw is give or take not an unreasonable estimate going forward? Would that be reasonable? I would look at the land the potential land sales for the remainder of the year as being closer to book value.
You know we are looking -- it's not a -- we are not looking at it as a profit driver for the company at this point we are looking at it as asset efficiency mechanism for us.
We are looking at like Jeff said larger lot positions where we could trim down in that asset price growth.
If we get some gains it will be a bonus for us but I would not probably forecast it out too aggressively.
On the acquisition versus the development spend for the quarter as I mentioned the total is $202 million.
$55 million in the quarter we spend at land acquisition.
We have pivoted more heavily towards the development side.
Again developing some of the land assets that we currently have on the balance sheet and taking them through to open communities.
They continue to drive community count increases.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Megan McGrath with MKM.
Please proceed with your question.
Just wanted a couple of clarification questions.
First Jeff you talked a little bit in your previous answer about the Inland Empire.
I think that was one of the regions that you cited last quarter as being one of the drivers for the lower margins as you had to incentivize or lower prices there.
So could you talk a little bit more specifically about that market and what you saw in the first quarter? You know is it looking any healthier or just sort of maintained from last quarter.
I would say it's looking healthier Megan.
You know the geography.
The closer you get on the west side of the Inland Empire to Orange County right now the better it is.
Or the closer you get on the South End and South River side to San Diego it's actually pretty good.
Most of the available land is out further inland and those markets are still softer than the areas that border coastal counties.
But it is getting better.
Okay.
Great.
And then I wanted to ask -- you mentioned a little bit that there were some potentially some pull forward units in to 1Q that you had expected to come in 2Q.
Would that imply that 2Q might be a little bit lower in terms of growth or backlog conversion but I know it's usually a typically a higher quarter in terms of backlog conversion.
So could you just put a little bit of color around your expectations in 2Q for units.
Megan yes that’s right.
As I talked about in the prepared remarks we are looking at conversion in the low 50s and I actually even gave revenue guidance of $5.80 to $6.15 in the second quarter.
So I think you are exactly right here in the analysis.
Our next question comes from the line of David Goldberg with UBS.
Please proceed with your question.
It's actually [indiscernible].
My first question is a little bit bigger picture in that can you talk about how you see change in the mortgage market coming and what role that will play on [shaking] [ph] some of this pent up demand that you talked about in your prepared remarks.
I certainly think the mortgage situation remains tight.
And it is holding back the recovery.
You know we have talked about things like the mortgage insurance premium came down and that’s a good thing.
I do feel that the big banks still have overlays and are still conservative in their underwriting because of the rules and the impact of Dodd-Frank are still getting clarified.
So you have a recovery that’s occurring and demand is growing.
It's still a top shelf borrower I will say in that FICO scores that five years ago you could get a loan on you still can't get today.
So we don’t bank on that getting better in order to achieve our delivery targets and our revenue targets.
I do think over time it will continue to ease and it does it will be a nice combination with the household formation occurring and the economy improving where you should see a real uptick in demand.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then our next question is you mentioned that you think that you that you get [indiscernible] demand but can you give us any indication of what early signs you are watching that you are keeping an eye on to determine if things do start to weaken there.
Well certainly it will show up in your -- you have cancellations because of job loss.
If traffic levels were to drop if our conversion rates were to drop if inventory levels really pushed hard I think one of the keys to our success right now and our ability to hold sales is the price points that we are playing at.
I am hearing some anecdotes in the market in Houston that the higher price points have softened and most of our communities are right in the sweet spot of price points between 150 and 300.
They are in the major employment corridors up north and out west and our communities continue to sell well.
In our higher price points I think we have one community that tips up in the 400 Jeff and that's a little bit softer.
But on balance how we are positioned there continues to be in the meat of the market.
And as I shared we are not seeing evidence of a slowdown in demand yet.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Alan Ratner with Zelman &amp; Associates.
Please proceed with your question.
Congrats on the quarter and thanks for all the detailed guidance.
Firsts Jeff K.
just to clarify a couple of the guidance numbers I just want to confirm.
The revenue number excludes land sales and the margin numbers include interest; is that correct? That's correct.
Okay great.
And Jeff M.
just following on that Houston commentary.
I think when we look at your land position it seems like you probably have a bit more exposure to the south and the east the lower price points within Houston than some of your peers and I think you're probably a bit less exposed to some of the larger master plans there.
So I was also curious whether you think that you are seeing any different trends among those different submarkets there.
And then on the incentive front are you seeing any increase in incentives in that market and have you become more competitive on your pricing there perhaps to capture some of those sales? I would tweak your comment Alan that we are most southwest and west than we are south in Houston.
We have a lot of stores open along the energy corridor on the west side out in Katy that are all performing well today.
And I would say in general we have been able to take some price in Houston this year.
Nothing big because it's a competitive market but we have been taking price and holding our sales.
Our community count is up in Houston and that’s part of the sales lift that we saw.
And I will say we will continue to balance price and pace and we are not seeing signs yet of incentivizing heavy incentives or pressure on price.
So we are comfortable.
We like the demand.
We like the trends.
But I remain cautious because there were a lot of rigs shut downs and you have to wait and see how it plays out.
Sure.
I appreciate that.
And then a final question I know you have your leverage targets out there but curious with your cash flow outlook and the focus on returns whether there is any contemplation of buying back stock with the trading below book value here.
Right now we are focused on growing our business.
And Alan just to come back I just want to make sure we are perfectly clear on the guidance.
The revenue guidance we gave for both the second quarter and full year was housing revenues which excludes land sales.
So that’s just to be clear on that.
On the gross margin guidance because we gave sequential improvement in basis points of sequential improvement for each of the quarters it really works either way.
Whether you want to include or exclude the interest from the gross margin number.
As long as you are whatever base you chose to come off of and you go with the sequential improvement in basis points it should work for you either way.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Adam Rudiger with Wells Fargo.
Please proceed with your question.
Could you -- the Southwest saw a little bit different pricing trends than the rest of the regions.
Can you discuss what was going on there? It's mix Adam.
Our Arizona portion of the business is up from what it was a year ago.
Vegas we are seeing price.
Vegas the market is holding well there.
But our ASP came down because of the mix.
Okay.
The second question was you referenced in an earlier question I think and in kind of your prepared remarks about competitive pressures in the fourth quarter.
I was wondering in the regions that you saw that in the fourth quarter if the trends had changed there if there is any stabilization.
Gotten worse gotten better? And if you saw any other regions that changed.
If you go back to my comment I made previously in the Q&amp;A we did see a softening in the market demand in the Inland Empire in the fourth quarter.
And you try to separate out the -- you are always going to see a better market in the first quarter than you saw in the fourth quarter just due to the seasonality of our business and we are seeing that and we are trying to gauge whether demand is improving.
Relatively in the Inland Empire though when you see the strength that’s starting to show up again in Orange County it always will move Inland it's a typical recovery.
And I think we are starting to see some of this on the West End of the Inland Empire.
There were parts of Florida that we saw softening in Q4 and we are seeing an uptick in sales and traffic year-over-year.
So I would say on average across our footprint we are seeing better market conditions today than we did in the fourth quarter.
Thank you.
At this time we have reached the end of our Q&amp;A session for today.
I will turn the floor back to Mr.
Jeff Mezger for closing comments.
Okay.
Thanks Rob and thank you everyone for joining us today and we look forward to speaking with you all again in the near future.
Have a great weekend.
This concludes today's teleconference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect your lines at this time.
Good morning.
My name is Lattania and I will be your conference operator today.
I would like to welcome everyone to KB Home 2015 Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Today's conference is being recorded and a live webcast is available on KB Home's website at kbhome.com.
Following the company's opening remarks we will open the lines for questions.
KB Home's discussion today may include forward-looking statements that reflect management's current views and expectations of the market conditions future events and the company's business performance.
These statements are not guarantees of future results and the company does not undertake any obligation to update them.
Due to a number of factors outside of its control including those identified in its SEC filings the company's actual results could be materially different from those expressed and/or implied by the forward-looking statements.
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures referenced during today's discussion to their most directly comparable GAAP measures can be found in the company's earnings release issued earlier today and/or on the Investor Relations page of the company's website.
At this time I would now turn the call over to Jeff Mezger President and CEO of KB Home.
Mr.
Mezger you may begin.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Lattania.
Thank you everyone for joining us today for a review of our second quarter results.
With me are Jeff Kaminski Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Bill Hollinger Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer; and Thad Johnson Senior Vice President and Corporate Treasurer.
This morning I will start with a brief overview of our results for the quarter along with an update on our strategic initiatives.
Then Jeff Kaminski will provide additional detail on our financial results after which I will share a few closing remarks before opening the call up for your questions.
Our results for the second quarter reinforce the progress we are making with year-over-year revenue growth and sequential improvement across our key financial and operational metrics.
As I mentioned on our first quarter earnings call we view this year as a tale of two halves.
In the first half among other things we've expanded our community count and built a robust backlog that has strategically positioned our operations for revenue and earnings growth.
In the second half we expect to realize the benefits of our expanded platform as we convert our backlog into deliveries and revenues improve our margins on a sequential basis and achieve greater economies of scale.
Our results for the second quarter met or exceeded the guidance provided on the first quarter earnings call with respect to our community count housing revenues and average selling prices as well as the sequential improvement in our housing gross margin and SG&amp;A ratio.
Most importantly we achieved substantial year-over-year growth in net orders driven primarily by significant increase in our community count.
With this net order performance during the spring selling season we now have a strong backlog position in place which sets us up for significant revenue growth and profit improvement for the second half of this year.
I'd like to review some highlights from the quarter.
Our housing revenues of $605 million were up 8% from a year ago marking our 15th consecutive quarter of year-over-year revenue growth.
On a sequential basis we improved our housing gross profit margin by 90 basis points to 16%.
We also lowered our SG&amp;A ratio by 50 basis points from the first quarter to 13%.
Net income for the quarter was $9.6 million or $0.10 per diluted share.
We performed particularly well with respect to the leading indicators of our business.
Our net order value increased 38% from a year ago to $1.1 billion.
Net orders for the quarter grew 33% year-over-year to 3 015 tracking closely with the 30% expansion in our average community count.
We ended the quarter with 261 communities open for sale representing an increase of 35% from the prior year.
On a sequential basis our ending community count increased 11% from the first quarter.
Our ending backlog in units grew 39% to 4 733 and our backlog value rose 57% to $1.6 billion.
This was our highest second quarter ending backlog value since 2007.
With this solid backlog position and our expectation for continued year-over-year community count growth over the balance of this year we are now set up for accelerating revenue and profits and to enter next year with terrific momentum.
Our results are being driven through our continued focus on four key strategic initiatives which are to grow our community count drive higher revenue per community increase our profitability per unit and to enhance our return on investment.
As our results demonstrate we've made tremendous strides in growing our community count.
So I'll move on to the actions we are taking to increase our revenue per community.
While we will always take price as the market allows we're also working to increase revenue per community through our new locations and the types of homes and options we offer and by taking advantage of the many opportunities for revenue enhancements that are available in our unique build-to-order approach.
As we've shared in the past we continue to balance price and pace in order to optimize each asset and are not looking to increase our overall sales per community until we achieve our margin goals.
Our second quarter results reflect this strategy as our absorption rate per community held constant while our average selling price grew 6% over the prior year an increase of approximately $20 000 per home.
In order to increase our profitability per unit we have programs in place to drive further improvement in both our gross margin and SG&amp;A ratios.
We expect our gross margins to continue to improve in the second half as a result of four factors.
First the actions we're taking across the system to drive price while containing or lowering our cost to build.
Second the higher margins we are capturing in our new communities will be flowing through in deliveries.
Third we've invested in field overhead to support our ramp-up in communities in the first half that we are now converting to revenue in the second half.
And finally the added benefit of leverage from our accelerating revenue growth.
We expect continued sequential improvement in gross margin over the balance of the year and we'll significantly narrow the year-over-year gap by the fourth quarter.
On the SG&amp;A front we continue to do a good job of controlling costs while we ramp up our community count.
As an illustration of this point even with the overhead and marketing costs of the additional communities we have opened this year most of which have yet to generate revenue our second quarter SG&amp;A ratio was essentially flat year-over-year.
Our accelerating revenue growth in the second half of the year will drive solid sequential and year-over-year improvement in our SG&amp;A ratio.
Our fourth key strategic initiative is to enhance our return on invested capital.
While we continue to improve our profitability we also feel we can support the investment necessary to achieve our growth targets in part through improving our asset efficiency.
We will continue to generate cash through land sales whether they're non-strategic assets we currently hold or a portion of a new acquisition that is not critical to our needs.
Year-to-date we've generated $69 million in land sales and now expect to exceed our earlier guidance for full year land sales revenue of $100 million.
We're also continuing to activate communities that were previously held for future development.
We'll take the cash we generate from both of these activities and reinvest in new communities that will generate higher returns.
Turning now to the macroeconomic environment and housing.
The national economy is continuing to improve with sustained job growth now occurring across the country.
This improving employment and economic environment is in turn contributing to increased consumer confidence which is currently at one of the highest levels reported since 2007.
Meanwhile the housing market also continues its measured recovery.
Inventory levels remain well below normal and while there is still price appreciation occurring in most markets it is at a more moderate and sustainable pace.
Even with the slight uptick in mortgage rates over the past week affordability remains at compelling levels.
The most encouraging statistical trend that bodes very well for future housing demand is the dramatic increase now occurring in household formation.
Recent census reports put household formation at an annualized rate of almost 2 million well above normalized historical levels and significantly higher than the 500 000 households we have averaged per year over the last eight years.
This data point suggests that we may be at a turning point in this housing recovery as household formation has been the missing link.
We are well positioned to move with this demand as evidenced by the increase in our first time buyer percentage to 56% during the second quarter even with the $20 000 increase in our average selling price.
With housing markets continuing to recover we are experiencing high levels of demand as our product offerings and Built to Order approach resonate with consumers.
For the second consecutive quarter we're reporting solid order growth across all four regions.
In California net orders increased 32% with continued strength in the Bay Area and Coastal Southern California.
During the quarter we opened for pre-sales at our first urban mid-rise community 72 Townsend which is located in the South Beach area of San Francisco.
The condominiums are priced in the $1.3 million to $1.7 million range for the lower floors and over $3 million for the upper floors with a view of the Bay and the initial demand has been very strong.
Later this year we'll be opening a community in the Lower Pacific Heights area of San Francisco with pricing starting around $1 million.
While many of you are familiar with the higher density podium products we have developed over the years in the suburban rings of the major California cities these are our further developments in the urban core; they offer a great opportunity to expand our business presence and our logical extension of our California development expertise.
In our Southwest region we reported 532 net orders an increase over the prior year of 152% due to both a much higher community count and an accelerated sales pace per community.
While our Las Vegas business continues to perform well for the first time in many years our Arizona division was also a significant contributor to order growth for the region.
This growth is being driven by both activations and investment in new communities.
As an example in May we successfully grand-opened a large planned community in a great infill Mesa location named Copper Crest.
With 440 lots and three product lines where we are offering price points from the low $200 000s to mid $300 000s that catered the first time as well as first and second move-up buyers.
As both the Las Vegas and Arizona markets continue to improve we are excited about the potential for this region to contribute a much larger share of our revenue and profit growth going forward.
The Central region is currently our largest region in terms of units and we continue to experience strong demand across all markets.
The region generated 8% growth in net orders and a 23% increase in net order value off of a strong order comps from last year.
This order growth was consistent with our community count growth in the region and the positive comp was generated in spite of the weather disruption in May.
While we remain cautious we are still not seeing signs of a slowdown in demand in our communities as a result of the oil price decline.
In the Southeast we also saw strengthening demand with a net order increase of 38%.
As with the Southwest region we are encouraged with our potential for growth in revenue and profits from this region going forward.
In closing we're pleased with our progress during the quarter.
Our investment and product strategy is working as our new communities in all four regions are performing well and a housing market that is continuing to improve.
We're growing our community count and backlog and are now positioned for significant revenue growth and improved profitability this year and sustained momentum heading into 2016.
Now I'll hand the call over to Jeff Kaminski who'll discuss our financial results in greater detail.
Jeff? Thank you Jeff and good morning everyone.
We continue to successfully advance our key strategic initiatives during the second quarter.
Our progress is evidenced in part by the substantial growth in our backlog and community count which as Jeff said reinforces our expectations for strong second half deliveries in revenues.
We anticipate that this accelerated top-line growth combined with sequentially higher housing gross profit margins will drive significant earnings improvement over the remainder of this year.
In the second quarter our housing revenues of $605 million grew 8% from the same quarter last year extending our trend of year-over-year revenue growth.
We were pleased with our operational performance during the quarter particularly as our Central region operations were faced with severe weather conditions.
Looking to the third quarter we plan to generate housing revenues in the range of $770 million to $810 million as we convert our sizeable backlog into deliveries and we realize continued improvement in our overall average selling price.
For the full year we are projecting housing revenues in the range of $2.95 billion to $3.1 billion.
Land sale revenues increased to $15.9 million in the second quarter from $2.6 million in the prior year quarter.
These land sales produce essentially breakeven results in both periods.
So far this year we've generated $69 million of land sale revenues and are on track to slightly exceed our goal of approximately $100 million for the full year as we continue to execute on targeted opportunities to monetize certain land positions through either sales or reactivations as part of our focus on enhancing asset efficiencies.
During the second quarter our overall average selling price of homes delivered grew 6% year-over-year to approximately $339 000 reflecting increases in three of our four regions.
We expect to continue to generate year-over-year increases in the mid-to-high single-digit range for the remaining quarters of 2015 as well as for the full year.
Our housing gross profit margin of 16% for the second quarter improved 90 basis points from the first quarter 2015.
Excluding the amortization of previously capitalized interest and land option contract abandonment charges our second quarter adjusted housing gross profit margin was 20.3% in 2015 representing a sequential increase of 80 basis points versus the first quarter and a decrease of 230 basis points from the second quarter 2014.
As we expected our gross margin performance for the second quarter improved sequentially from Q1.
We anticipate additional sequential margin increases in the two remaining quarters of 2015 particularly as we gain operating leverage by delivering a higher number of homes and the increasing revenues from our expanded growth platform.
In the fourth quarter we expect the sequential improvement to be even more pronounced due to an increased proportion of our deliveries coming from recently opened higher margin communities and the impact of start-up field cost diminishing as we convert orders to revenues in these communities.
Consistent with the guidance provided during last quarter's earnings call and assuming no land option contract abandonment or impairment charges we are forecasting a third quarter housing gross profit margin in the mid-16% range.
For our fourth quarter we are slightly increasing the prior guidance and now anticipate a gross margin in excess of 18% again assuming no abandonment or impairment charges.
Our selling general and administrative expense ratio for the current quarter of 13% improved sequentially by 50 basis points as compared to the first quarter but increased 20 basis points from a year ago.
On a year-over-year basis this slightly higher ratio was primarily due to increases in staffing and other community-related expenditures to support both an anticipated uptick in third quarter and fourth quarter deliveries and our expanded community count.
At May 31 2015 we had 67 more communities open for sales than we had a year ago.
We expect to generate sequential improvements in our SG&amp;A expense ratio in excess of 100 basis points for the third quarter and an additional 100 basis points to 150 basis points for the fourth quarter as we produce increased revenues from our newer communities and continue to manage our overhead costs.
In the second quarter our effective tax rate of 24.5% reflected the positive impact of $1.7 million of federal energy tax credits we earned from delivering energy efficient homes.
For the third and fourth quarters of this year we are forecasting an effective tax rate of approximately 38% with tax credit impacts if any expected to be minimal.
Our second quarter average community count rose 30% year-over-year to 248 which helped drive a significant increase in our net orders and net order value that Jeff summarized earlier.
During the second quarter we opened 42 new communities including four communities previously held for future development.
Year-to-date we have opened 11 such communities as part of our asset efficiency initiative and we plan to continue to evaluate our land held for future development to identify additional communities for reactivation.
We ended the quarter with 261 communities open for sales up 35% from the previous year.
During the quarter we closed out of 16 communities which was fewer than we expected and will result in a somewhat higher than anticipated number of community closeouts in Q3.
For the remainder of the year we expect community closeouts to exceed openings.
As a result we anticipate our community count would decrease sequentially in the third quarter and remain relatively flat in the fourth quarter.
However on a year-over-year basis our average community count should increase in the mid-20% range for the third quarter and in the low double-digit range for Q4 against the higher 2014 comparison point.
For the full year we anticipate that our average community count expansion will be in the range of 18% to 20% versus 2014 which is at the high end of our previous guidance.
For the past eight quarters we've generated year-over-year increases in our average community count reflecting the strong inventory pipeline we have built through our substantial investments in land and land development over the past few years.
During the quarter we invested $253 million in land and land development of which more than 70% was related to land development.
And we owned or controlled approximately 50 000 lots at quarter end.
We anticipate investing a total of $1.1 billion to $1.3 billion in land and land development in 2015 which we believe will support our community count and revenue growth objectives.
In conclusion we are looking forward to a strong second half of 2015 as we continue to execute on our strategic initiatives aimed at accelerating growth in revenues and profits.
With a strong backlog and expanded community count underpinning our expectations we are confident in our ability to achieve these goals.
Now I will turn the call back over to Jeff for his concluding remarks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Jeff.
Before we conclude our prepared remarks I would like to take a moment to thank the employees of KB Home who're driving our success on a daily basis.
I sincerely appreciate all of your hard work.
We're entering the second half of the year from a position of strength with an expanded community count and a strong backlog supporting our revenue and delivery projections for the remainder of 2015.
As we move ahead we intend to continue to advance on our four strategic initiatives and to build on the momentum we have in our business today.
With our plans for 2015 firmly in place we are looking toward 2016 with optimism.
We already have the land pipeline in place to meet our delivery goals for next year.
And we expect the financial improvements over the next two quarters to carry into 2016.
While it is still too early to discuss next year our preliminary projection show that we will see improvement in our major metrics including deliveries revenues gross profit margin SG&amp;A expense ratio and earnings on a year-over-year basis.
Therefore the future looks bright for KB Home.
Now we'll open the call up to your questions.
Thank you.
We will now conduct a question-and-answer session.
We ask that all callers limit themselves to one question and one follow-up.
Our first question comes from Megan McGrath with MKM Partners.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning.
So thanks for all the guidance and still working through it a little bit but a couple of questions here.
On the community count you've talked in the past about having some issues opening communities and seeing some delays there.
So you were able to get a fair amount opened in the quarter.
Did some of those delays and issues subside in the quarter? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Megan I've shared on past calls that that's been one of my biggest frustrations; as we've been reloading for growth it's taking longer than we projected to get communities opened.
And I think lot of the delays from last year and early this year finally came through and culminated in the big jump in openings.
I think we're now – we're continuing to fight through delays with contractor base service city (25:12) processing and a little bit of weather right now.
I don't know if it has gotten a lot better but we've plateaued at a higher level now because a lot of what was in the queue was pushed through.
So there's still some headwinds in getting them open but I think we're a little further ahead of the game than we were in the past.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then just wanted to get a little bit more color on your ASP guidance and your confidence there.
I look at your backlog ASP and it's about $340 000 (25.56) but your guidance at least for the 4Q looks like it's calling for a significantly higher number in the fourth quarter.
Is that just an expected mix as you talked about towards some of these newer communities? What's behind that confidence especially for 4Q? Right yes.
There are several things I think that are behind it.
One I think traditionally if you track it that way you'll notice that most cases our backlog trails a little bit from our future quarter ASPs.
Part of it is a lot of the backlog hasn't been fully through the studio process at this point.
So while some of the backlog reflects studio orders or additions it all doesn't reflect it.
Part of it is certainly mix and part of it is still some sales to go in the next couple of months that will deliver out in the fourth quarter particularly some of our higher priced ASP product in California.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Susan Maklari with UBS.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Susan.
My first question is that you noted in your comments that you expect to continue to generate cash and you actually could have some more land sales than had originally been expected.
How do you think about the uses of that cash especially investing in the business relative to perhaps other shareholder return sort of oriented things? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Right now Susan we're reinvesting to fuel growth.
We're just now growing into the scale that we're capable of and it helps to carry the current debt load and our overhead structure and it's the best way to improve our returns.
Okay.
And then my next question is you also noted – you made a comment about household formation and how that seems to be improving more recently over the last few quarters.
How do you think that as that comes together it breaks out between the rental versus buy decision? Are you seeing a lot more first-time buyers coming into your communities? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think the household formation will favor both rental and ownership on both sides.
It's typically a first-time buyer that's created when a millennial moves out of the home is fully employed gets married has a child all the normal lifecycle things that have been delayed for a decade.
And as we shared in our prepared remarks our first-time buyer percentage did move up a little bit in the quarter.
We were up to 56% – couldn't tell you if that's a sustained trend or a coincidence of mix.
But we saw an increase in three of the four regions during the quarter – a couple of points a region in first-time buyers.
So it's an encouraging sign and as I've shared it's what's been missing to get a sustained housing recovery.
We haven't had the first-time buyer demand and this household formation that's developing that was very encouraging.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Michael Rehaut with JPMorgan Chase.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Just to go back to the first-time buyer for a moment if you could give us what that percent was in the first quarter and also a year ago.
And I'm just trying to get a sense on a bigger picture if you think that's being driven by any easing of credit conditions or underwriting standards that are out there or if it's more just this broader macroeconomic momentum that's in the backdrop in terms of employment and the economy continuing to go in the right way? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Mike I'll speak to the macro trends and then Jeff can give you the numbers.
If you think about it over a 40-year period the nation averaged 1.2 million household formations.
From the period of 2008 to 2014 we averaged 500 000 well below normal.
So people that don't have a job they're staying with their parents longer – everything we've talked about over the past few years.
With the job growth that's occurring and the ageing of the millennials they're getting to a point in their life where they're getting a job and moving on with their life.
So if you go from annualizing the 500 000 to 2 million it creates demand whether it's rental or for sale there's a lot more people that are out there needing a roof over their household.
So I think it's a combination of the pent-up demographics and an economy that's creating jobs.
In relation to your question on the percentages Mike as Jeff mentioned 56% was the percentage for the most recent quarter last quarter was at 50%.
It had been trending sort of in the low to mid 50%s for the last six quarters or seven quarters.
One year ago it was 54%.
Great.
And then just a couple clarification questions on the guidance Jeff.
You mentioned you raised 4Q gross margin guidance a little bit from prior if you could just remind us what that prior guidance was for 4Q? And also when you talked about community count up low double-digits in 4Q just wanted to know if that was against – is that – when you say up low double-digits is that against the year ago average or the year ago end of quarter number? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
Yeah.
Good question Mike.
Starting with community count it's the average against the fourth quarter average in the prior year so fourth quarter 2014.
On the guidance on the margins if you kind of do the math and where we started from the first quarter and we kind of gave guidance sequentially as improvements in basis points last quarter.
And if you kind of go through it it gave us a range of 17.7% to 18.2% for the fourth quarter.
And like I said we're slightly increasing that now saying that we believe we'll be in excess of 18%.
So we're kind of taking the 17% off the table for the fourth quarter.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Stephen Kim with Barclays.
Please proceed with your question.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah thanks a lot also appreciate all the granular guidance it's helpful.
I wanted to first ask I think Jeff Mezger you mentioned in your opening remarks that it was your intention and you're going to continue your strategy of increasing your profitability first before focusing on increasing absorptions sales per community I was curious if you could share with us if you have a certain threshold in mind for overall profitability metrics that would allow you to sort of cross over into the next stage of focusing on absorptions or if there is some other way in which you're thinking about that internally that you could share? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
Sure Stephen what I – I didn't touch on profitability I touched on gross profits that we're not going to move our sales pace up until our gross margins are achieved.
I'd say that because you can also improve your profitability through inventory turns and just running a better business and that's part of our improvement in profitability.
As we analyze our communities most of them have an optimal return in the three months to four months range.
Depended on how much the initial investment is it's larger in some states than others but on average it's three months or four months.
So we'll toggle back and forth.
If something selling above the four months' range we'll push price and so you move this one and over here this community may be a two a month so you do things to get the sales pace up because you're focused on the returns.
Over time as we continue to toggle and work on everything we've shared we continue to have a goal of a gross margin in excess of 20% and SG&amp;A ratio around 10% maybe a little lower than 10% now with the way we're headed and we'll be working between the two to get there but in the meantime you won't see our sales pace lift until we get our margins north of 20%.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's very clear and very helpful.
Thanks very much for that.
I guess the next question relates to your average price mix.
So obviously there's a lot of things that go into the average price metrics that we can calculate on our ends but as you think about the distribution of your product that you're offering to various buyer types over the last few years KB has been engaged in the process of moving that upwards.
And you started your project in San Fran for example.
Can you give us a sense for generally speaking where you think – what inning you think we are in terms of making that migration the deliberate migration higher? Do you feel for example that by the time you get to the earlier part of next year that you will have essentially accomplished your goal or do you feel that this is still a multi-year process that you're going to be engaged in from here? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think it's a continuum Stephen.
We like to use the term that we move with demand and we've shared that we can have a product series at a certain width in a city that ranges from 1 200 square feet to 4 200 square feet and if the demand is evident in higher footages and price points that's the product we'll put to market.
If the demand in that area moves to more first time we'll go to the lower footage and maybe change the spec level and attack the lower price point out of the same product series.
So my hunch is as these markets continue to normalize we'll probably settle pretty close to the range we're in right now first-time buyer range around 50% to 60% our first or second move-up another 30% and then move-downs that are 10%.
Also at the same time I think if you go back to my comment we're seeing price still around on the resale side but it's moderating and to me it's part of a healthy recovery inventory keeps clearing and as prices normalize I would expect year-over-year you'll see our pricing track with the more normalized inflation rate and we'll follow demand in the different cities and that's what will drive our mix and price.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Alan Ratner with Zelman &amp; Associates.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey guys and congrats on a solid quarter.
The first question on Texas Jeff you mentioned weather headwinds there.
You did raise the low end of the revenue guidance for the full year.
I was curious just what you're hearing from your guys in this field about production delays and how you are thinking about that for your third quarter and fourth quarter revenue guidance talking about the cycle times on Texas deliveries any changes there and kind of how you're building in some conservatism? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well we certainly took some hits with the weather in May.
It's pretty incredible what's been occurring in an area that was suffering from a drought.
We lost some deliveries in the quarter no question about that due to the weather and the way we're looking at it you didn't just lose deliveries in the quarter your framing slowed your Sheetrock slowed your finish slowed.
So you have this roll where I think just kind of extended out a quarter across the WIP.
So it's not like we lost deliveries and we see a big uptick in Q3 because we're going to go right back and get them it moved out the whole production machine.
Having said that we took all that into consideration in the guidance that we have given here.
While our WIP was impacted by the weather it did impact our land development as well.
So we're trying to find ways to compress time now in areas where we couldn't grade or couldn't pave over the last 60 days.
Okay.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> But I'm assuming it's going to stop raining one of these days in Houston while you're back.
We'll hope so.
And just to follow-up on that Jeff when you ran through the 2016 metrics you expect to show improvement.
I think one thing I didn't hear was community count.
So I was just curious if you think that community count kind of plateaus here for a while or do you think that as you move into the out years you could see additional growth? Right.
Well we did actually provide a little bit of commentary on the community count.
Talking about the third quarter as I said our closeouts will exceed our openings for the remainder of the year.
So we believe we will sequentially decrease decline in Q3 and stay relatively flat through the end of the year.
But despite that when you look at it versus prior year our third quarter estimate for average community count should be up in the mid-20% range versus the prior.
And the fourth quarter should be up in the double-digit range versus the prior year both on an average basis versus the same quarter of the prior year.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Joel Locker with FBN Securities.
Please proceed with your question.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi guys.
Just curious about your community count in the Southwest region what it was at the end of the quarter and versus a year ago at the end of the second quarter? Well the community count in Southwest was up quite significantly.
On an average basis for the quarter if you look at third quarter over the third quarter we're up about 117% in community count between the operations there.
So we more than doubled and we're pretty pleased with the performance both in the ability to get new communities opening in a way they're performing and particularly also saw an absorption increase in the region.
So we're quite pleased with how that's gone there.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
And then just a follow-up on SG&amp;A.
Do you have a breakdown of the $78.5 million in the second quarter between commissions marketing and corporate? I mean we do but it's a little detailed.
I don't have it right in front of me.
I will make one comment on the SG&amp;A for the quarter.
In relation to our forecast where we thought we come in we came in pretty much spot on.
We were a little bit light on the percentage – or a little bit heavy on the percentage by about 10 basis points just due to some of the deliveries that we lost.
But we did anticipate a sequential decline which we had.
We did not anticipate catching the prior year number which we did not.
And the main driver of it is – as we talked about in the prepared remarks was that we knew with an expanded community count and setting up the second half of the year that we were going to have to absorb some additional investment in infrastructure and overhead cost in the second quarter especially those that are community related in order to drive strong second half revenue growth.
So for us it was pretty much on expectation for performance in that area.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Robert Wetenhall with RBC Capital Markets.
Please proceed with your question.
This is actually Collin filling in for Bob.
Thank you for taking my questions.
So during the first quarter earnings call you guided toward a sequential increase of 50 basis points in your homebuilding gross margin.
What drove this beat versus your expectations? Right yeah there were several factors in there.
The predominant – I guess when we were forecasting the 50 basis points predominantly came from leverage; increased revenues on some of our fixed costs are included in margin.
What we also saw during the quarter was some pretty strong pricing trends.
So on our spec inventory I believe we had slightly better margins than anticipated or anything that we sold and delivered in the same quarter.
We had a real nice quarter of cost containment on the cost side and in fact probably one of the best six-month periods we've had in quite some time from that point of view.
And we had obviously a little bit of favorable mix in the quarter.
So it was a 40 basis point beat or so and is close to our expectations and we're pleased that it was a little bit above.
Great.
And then a question on conversion ratios given your guidance for the third quarter I'm kind of forecasting that you've seen a decline year-over-year.
When do you expect this to tick up towards more normalized levels and what would you consider in the more normalized levels? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Collin actually it ticked up last year because we were covering some inventory.
As you look at our business model if we're imbalance a lot of your backlog hasn't started yet.
In a Built to Order business you wait more.
Your backlog too sold and not started.
And if you think about our sequencing and the rhythm it's a six-month cycle from contract close.
You'll have about a third of your backlog that's either not started or just started and will close two quarters out not next quarter.
So over the years when we're in balance our backlog conversion is around 50% maybe 55%.
When you're growing you're typically growing the unstarted backlog ahead of the started backlog.
So it could be we're below 50% I don't know but it would be 1% or 2%.
And as we continue to grow our backlog in our WIP (43:30) you'll see us hang around 50% to 55% but it'll be a very predictable 50% to 55%.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Mike Dahl with Credit Suisse.
Please proceed with your question.
Mike your line is live.
Hi Jeff and Jeff this is Anthony (43:50) on for Mike.
Thanks for taking my question and congrats on a solid quarter.
My first question has to do with you talked about the goals to drive higher revenues per community and the way to do that was increased option use so I was just wondering if you could talk about the pricing – when you think about increasing revenues is it going to come from higher option pricing or are buyers increasing the amount of options as to their purposing or how you think about crafting this strategy going forward to drive higher revenues per community? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Anthony (44:28) if you look at our previous calls and the transcripts what we've shared is we're lifting our revenue by community with the types of products we're putting out there far more than pushing option revenue.
And I'd say that relative to communities we're opening maybe in a higher price area or a higher income area and you'll model a larger array of footage and you'll get higher pricing on the same lot because you put a larger home on it and that's where we'll move around with demand.
On the studio side we use it first and foremost to sell homes and along the way there's always incremental revenue opportunities.
I don't know if you have the numbers Jeff on what our studio has been doing but it roughly tracks about 10% of the base revenue.
So as we push our base revenue that buyer typically will spend about 10% in the studio.
The other parts of our Built to Order where we continue to mind pricing is in lot premiums elevation premiums.
You can evaluate over time what plan sells better than another because it's all built to order and you can move your pricing on the plan that's outselling the others to keep everything in balance.
So it's not just a studio it's across the whole spectrum of the selling process.
Great.
Thanks.
And then my second question is obviously you guys know two of your competitors recently merged.
So I was just trying to get your take on how further industry consolidation is going to – how you think about that impacting your strategy in terms of land acquisition or how you go forward with your relationships with either construction or material suppliers.
So just your overall take on that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Well M&amp;A has been a part of our industry for a long time.
Certainly I'm not going to comment on the transaction that was announced.
I'll leave that one to the experts but in our world we've always seen our best returns come from organic growth and that's what we're working on right now and we're doing pretty well.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Nishu Sood with Deutsche Bank.
Please proceed with your question.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Wanted to ask about the cadence of demand that you've seen so far this year.
I mean you mentioned that your markets have been strong and you've seen potentially some broadening out; you mentioned across all four of your regions demand was strong.
So just wanted to get your sense of that.
Has demand overall and as you dig down into the regions has it been accelerating anywhere or has it been mainly that this – simply this broadening out across the regions.
And as we look to the second half of the year is there anything that gives you pause or reason for encouragement because it seems like a lot of investors look at this space and they say housing demand just can't sustain into the second half of the year in a lot of years.
So I just want to hear your thoughts overall on what you've seen so far and what you expect? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Nishu good questions.
Specific to our business there is no question that our demand has broadened out where some regions that weren't as larger contributor to our orders are stepping up quite a bit.
So there is a broadening but within the markets that we're in we're seeing strength across the markets.
There is not – all of them are doing better at their own pace of improvement but there is none that I can think of where I'd say that's a tough market today.
It's a pretty broad-based strengthening going on and I think a lot of it's demographics.
This household formation you can't ignore the demand that gets created when those many people are moving from the roost.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Got it.
And second question I think you've been pretty clear that you want to use or capture this demand in pricing and margins versus trying to drive your absorption so we appreciate the strategic clarity.
Where do we stand in terms of pricing? And the way I was thinking about this was if the current pace or the pricing power that you're seeing out there is it enough that it would get you eventually to your 20% rough target that you're talking about or would we need more pricing power to emerge to balance out your pricing against the pace of cost increases you're seeing? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I would say that we have the potential to get there in the current market conditions in that whenever markets have priced the land sellers are smarter than we are.
So land prices go up or your cost goes up you need to lift your margins through your execution your product mix the submarkets that you're investing in.
And we think we've got a nice pipeline set up right now of new openings in the right submarkets where we make get more price we don't count on that.
If we do we'll certainly take it.
But we're trying to raise our margins without the benefit of price.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Alex Barrón with Housing Research Center.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks guys and good job.
I wanted to ask about the entry level demand that you're seeing as well as the mothballed communities.
Are those mothballed communities what type of consumer I guess are you trying to target? Is it entry level or move-up and how is this increase in the entry level demand shifting your strategy going forward? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Couple of comments Alex.
Every community that we're activating is a different position in that submarket.
So we've activated some that were more affordable play.
And we've activated some that are first move-up play or even into a second move-up play.
No different than new investments at the same time.
As long as we feel we can get the right returns with the acquisition or the activation that – I've shared on the call that we're pretty nimble about moving with demand and within our current holdings or future holdings we can move up or down in footage and spec level and price to where the demand is.
On the resale said I think this household formation is going to help unlock what I call the food chain where if there's more strength in the first-time buyer demand people can sell their homes and move up to their next home now which they may not have been able to do in the past.
So I think on the macro side this household formation is really going to help; and within our company we'll continue to navigate and target where the strength is in that location.
Okay.
And as far as the San Francisco project that you mentioned are those – when do you expect first deliveries of those and are the margins there higher than your company average? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> The first one that I mentioned Townsend we're hopeful of delivery sometime around the end of the year range we'll see.
These are fairly complex products to build and whatever our optimistic completion date is we're obviously going to miss them by a month or two months.
You have to run a higher margin in these in order to get your returns because they're more capital intensive than building a home on a lot in the suburbs.
So when they do hit the market typically it'll be a higher price and a higher margin no different than our prior experience which I believe you too heard last year out here Alex (52:22).
And I share it because it's an extension of a business that we haven't done before and we stuck our toe in the water up in the Bay Area.
The initial response has been very strong.
And again it's a natural extension of the things we do here in the States.
So we're looking to expand our penetration of this type of business on top of the other things we do.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jack Micenko with Susquehanna International Group.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi good morning.
Most of my questions have been answered but I was looking at the option-owned mix and your option mix is down pretty fairly significantly.
And just curious obviously you've got a lot of development dollars in the land spend too.
I mean is it a strategic shift away from option is the margin mostly in more raw land purchase here at this point or have seller preferences changed just curious as to the mix owned versus option strategy here? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Ideally we'd option every lot we could Jack.
In the A locations that are land constrained pretty difficult to get an option.
We have done some and continued to but Jeff can you give the color on how the numbers have moved but I wouldn't read too much into that but obviously we'll continue to turn and develop our owned but you will see us tie up lots in the future on options where we can.
Yeah.
In speaking on the numbers I think Jeff said it right.
I wouldn't read too much into it.
It does vary quite a bit.
You do have a tendency.
From time to time you go out and lock up some option lots sometimes you let those options go and you never actually close on the lots.
Other times they move into owned as time progresses.
So it's not I'd say a purposeful shifting that you see there; and like Jeff said in good locations with good returns and good margins we love option lots because they're more capital friendly; however right now we're seeing I guess a majority of development deals coming across.
Okay.
Great and then I think you mentioned the first time a little bit balancing margin and pace and getting that margin – getting close to those margin targets on one hand and then if you see more demand on the first time should we think look we're going to get to 20% (54:45) before we start really moving down to that true entry level where the margins are a bit less but the pace is higher or are you going to stick with look our buyer is built to order and it may be a higher income first-timer as it's been who are going to stay with that just thinking how that looks in the context of sort of your longer term strategy given the mix is a little bit different with that buyer profile? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It's an interesting question in that I was in Texas a month ago in Austin and we actually had a first-time buyer community I visit that's selling extremely well margins above the company average at a high absorption rate because we have a large lot position so you let it run above the four.
And in the same town we had opened up a first and second move-up product that was selling above local averages probably three a month at a much higher price actually a little lower percentage but higher dollars.
And actually as we're doing the math driving around the returns we're much higher on the first-time community than they were on the move-up community because you had above-average margin in a very strong pace.
I say that because people think your margins are going to be lower on first-time buyer product and they are if it's a play that's a volume play but over time a lot of our communities that are the more well-healed first-time buyer I'll say margins are above our company average just because the price is lower doesn't mean that the percentage margin has to be lower.
And your run rate's typically a little higher.
Thank you.
Our last question will be from Susan Berliner with JPMorgan.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi thank you.
Just one question to follow up.
I guess with regards to your cash position after the bond repayment I apologize if I didn't hear this I guess I was wondering with regards to cash flow over the next year or so and I guess your appetite for potentially raising new bonds? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Right.
I think the most important thing to kind of focus on right now with regards to cash is where the second half's forecasted to come in.
We'll have revenues in excess of $1.8 billion ranging up to about $2 billion in the second half of the year which will generate significant cash flow not only from improved profitability in the second half but also from the return of the investment that's already in the land as we get that back.
So we're pretty comfortable right now with where things are heading.
We've purposefully put more cash to work.
We do plan and intend to run the company with a much lower cash balance particularly with our revolver that we have standing behind it giving us additional liquidity.
So we're pretty comfortable with that.
The prior discussions we've had all still hold.
We're still continuing to target the 40% to 50% leverage ratio as we move forward.
And again very comfortable with the liquidity and the cash position at this point in time.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
At this time I would like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Jeff Mezger for closing comments.
Please proceed.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Right.
Thank you Lattania.
And thank you everyone for joining us on the call today.
Look forward to speaking with you again in the very near future.
Have a great weekend and Happy Father's Day.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.
Good morning.
My name is Latonia and I will be your conference operator today.
I would now like to welcome everyone to KB Home 2015 Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Today’s conference is being recorded and a live webcast is available on KB Home’s website at kbhome.com.
Following the company’s opening remarks we will open the line later for questions.
KB Home’s discussion today may include forward-looking statements that reflect management’s current views and expectations of market conditions future events and the company’s business performance.
These statements are not guarantees of future results and the company does not undertake any obligation to update them.
Due to a number of factors outside of its control including those identified in the SEC filings the company’s actual results could be materially different from those expressed and/or implied by forward-looking statements.
A reconciliation of non-GAAP measures referenced during today’s discussion to their most directly comparable GAAP measures can be found in the company’s earnings release issued earlier today and/or on the Investor Relations page of the company’s website.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Jeff Mezger President and CEO for KB Home.
Mr.
Mezger you may now begin.
Thank you Latonia and thank you everyone for joining us today for a review of our third quarter results.
With me are Jeff Kaminski Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Bill Hollinger Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer; and Thad Johnson Senior Vice President and Corporate Treasurer.
This morning I will start with a brief overview of our third quarter performance along with an update on some of our strategic initiatives.
Then Jeff Kaminski will provide additional detail on our financial results after which I will share a few closing remarks before opening the call for your questions.
We’re very pleased with this quarter’s results as they reinforce the progress we continue to make within our business.
Most notably our results reflect across the board improvement in our four regions with respect to nearly all key financial and operational metrics.
Among our results for the quarter we posted higher deliveries higher revenues higher pre-tax income higher net orders and higher ending backlog.
Our community count growth continues to be a primary driver for these improvements.
As we anticipated and shared on previous earnings calls this year our results for the year are unfolding as the tail of two halves.
In the first half among other things we expanded our community count had a successful spring selling season and built a robust backlog that strategically position our operations for revenue and earnings growth.
In the second half we have started realizing the benefits of our expanded platform as we’re converting this backlog into deliveries and revenues improving our margins on a sequential basis as well as closing the gap on a year-over-year basis and achieving greater economies of scale.
Our businesses are now operating with a nice healthy rhythm that is more predictable.
We’re accelerating our profitability and believe we will sustain this momentum into 2016.
Our results for the third quarter met or exceeded our internal goals for community count housing revenue ASP and the sequential improvement in our margin SG&amp;A ratio and earnings.
In addition we continued to generate substantial year-over-year growth in net orders driven primarily by the increase in our community count.
Our net order performance for the quarter led to our quarter-end backlog value reaching the highest third quarter level we have seen since 2007.
This substantial backlog provides great visibility for significant revenue growth and accelerating profits in the fourth quarter of this year and supports our expectation for continued revenue growth and profits in 2016.
Turning to some financial highlights from the quarter we delivered 25% more homes than in the year-earlier period with increases in each of our four regions.
Our housing revenues of $799 million were up 36% from a year ago.
We have now posted year-over-year revenue growth in every quarter for the past four years.
We saw broad-based housing revenue increases from our operations across the country with increases ranging from 17% in Central region to 112% in the Southwest region.
On a sequential basis we improved our adjusted housing gross profit margin by 80 basis points to 21.1%.
We lowered our SG&amp;A ratio by 110 basis points from the second quarter to 11.9% and by 50 basis points from a year ago.
Our pre-tax income increased 18% year-over-year to $34 million.
This was our highest third quarter pre-tax income since 2006.
We posted net income for the quarter of $23 million or $0.23 per diluted share.
We also performed well with respect to leading indicators of our business.
Our net order value increased 23% from a year ago to $773 million.
Net orders for the quarter grew 19% to 2 167 marking the first time since 2009 that our third quarter net orders have exceeded 2 000 homes.
At the end of the quarter we had 252 communities open for sales representing an increase of 26% from a year ago with increases in all four regions.
We finished the third quarter with a backlog value of $1.6 billion up 44% from a year ago marking the first time this metric has topped $1.5 billion in a third quarter since 2007.
Our results are being driven through our continued focus on our four key strategic initiatives.
These initiatives are to grow our community count drive higher revenue per community increase our profitability per unit and to enhance our return on investment.
We are energized by the progress we have made this year in executing on these initiatives and generating measurable improvements across our operations.
Since we have discussed our four initiatives in detail on previous calls today I will comment briefly on just two of these initiatives community count and profitability.
First turning to community count having achieved a significant ramp up thus far in 2015 we are now crossing over to a period where our community count growth will be at a more moderate year-over-year pace.
We continue to invest in our growth trajectory and at this time are well positioned as we own and control all of the lots required for our 2016 deliveries and the majority of the lots needed for 2017.
We also continue to activate communities that were previously held for future development.
Year-to-date we have now opened 12 such communities and are constantly evaluating our portfolio for additional opportunities.
Moving onto profitability we expect our housing gross margin to continue to improve in the fourth quarter significantly narrowing the gap versus the prior year as a result of the following four factors.
First we are taking actions to contain or reduce our cost to build.
With the size of our backlog and consistency in starts we’ve been able to manage through the labor shortages that have been featured in the media.
However in some cases these shortages have put additional pressure on our cost to build.
As such each of our division teams have an action plan in place to control or reduce their direct costs.
Second the higher margin we are capturing in our new communities will now be falling through in deliveries.
Third the impact of the additional field overhead associated with the ramp up in communities during the first half of the year is diminishing as these communities are now starting to produce revenues.
And finally the added benefit of overall leverage from our accelerating revenue growth.
As I said we plan to significantly close the year-over-year gap in our housing gross margin in the fourth quarter.
Looking forward into 2016 we expect our housing gross margin to cross over to a favorable year-over-year comparison in our first quarter.
With regard to profitability we also plan to further enhance our SG&amp;A performance.
We continue to do a good job of controlling overhead while expanding our community count and driving higher revenues.
Not only was our third quarter ratio of 50 basis points better than a year ago it was 110 basis points than the second quarter.
Even with this significant sequential improvement in our third quarter ratio we still expect a further sequential reduction of 100 basis points to 150 basis points in the fourth quarter.
On a regional basis we continue to experience steady demand.
For the third consecutive quarter we’re reporting positive order growth across all four regions.
Let me provide some comments on net orders and other highlights by region.
In California net orders increased 7% which is a softer positive comparable than reported in the past few quarters.
This was primarily the result of a transition period in the Bay Area where last year we had several community openings or new phase releases that drove a very strong result for the quarter.
This year we have replacement communities that have just opened or will open in the next few months that are just now starting to build momentum.
Overall the Coastal markets of both Northern and Southern California continue to demonstrate strong demand.
Our inland regions also generated positive net order comparables during the quarter as the shortages of supply on the coast pushes prices upward and consumers seek affordable alternatives in more inland locations.
Across the state we have many large and strategic new openings on the horizon.
One of the areas of our business that I’m most proud of is our leadership in sustainability.
I’d like to thank all of our employees for their commitment to helping reduce our impact on the environment.
As everyone is aware California has been dealing with severe drought conditions of the last few years.
As part of our leadership efforts to reduce water usage in this state we successfully opened a community in San Diego County called Sea Cliff which features a great water recycling system that virtually eliminates the need for fresh water to irrigate landscape and dramatically reduces water usage per home.
This was the first community in California to offer this feature of standard and when combined with our WaterSense feature saves each homeowner an estimated 100 000 gallons of water per year.
Consumers and local municipalities are responding very positively and we’re looking to expand the availability of this system to other communities across our California footprint in the future.
In Sacramento the long-standing moratorium on starts in the Natomas region was finally lifted and we were successful in pulling permits for models in a very desirable location that consists of a total of 585 lots and will feature overtime three product lines.
We have owned this asset since 2004 and look forward to once again taking advantage of this opportunity in a market that is recovering nicely.
In our Southwest region we reported 384 net orders an increase of 94% over the prior year.
We continue to perform well in Arizona and Las Vegas with both markets demonstrating strong demand.
Phoenix in particular is demonstrating very favorable trends.
As both the Las Vegas and Arizona markets continue to improve we’re excited about the potential for this region to contribute a much larger share of our revenue and profit going forward.
Our Inspirada community in Las Vegas continues to be one of the top performers for our company and we’ll be introducing a townhome community that will be our fifth product line opened for sale in this very successful master plan.
The infrastructure and neighborhood parks are progressing as planned and there’s now a charter school in the community which opened with 700 students this fall that will create even greater value.
Inspirada is truly a crown jewel for our company.
The Central region is currently our largest in terms of deliveries and we continue to experience steady demand across all major cities in which we operate.
The region generated 10% year-over-year growth in net orders and a 25% increase in net order value.
There’s been lot of media coverage relative to the price of oil impacting the economy and housing in Houston.
And we can report that our absorption rate per community was basically flat year-over-year.
Due to the severe weather in this spring we did delay openings in Houston into our fourth quarter as well.
We are seeing some softening at higher price points in Houston above 350 000.
That being said with an average price on deliveries year to date in Houston of $217 000 we’re well positioned to appeal to the strength in demand at these lower price points.
While Texas continues to perform well we’re also pleased with our growth in Denver.
We opened eight communities in the Metro area in preparation for the spring selling season.
Demand in Denver remains very strong with low levels of inventory and we’re working with a seasoned management team to continue to take market share in this vibrant location.
In the Southeast we also experienced steady demand with net orders increasing 13% and net order value up 15% from a year ago.
As with the Southwest region we are encouraged by our potential for growth in revenue and profits from this region going forward.
Turning now to the macroeconomic environment and housing the national economy is continuing to improve with sustained job growth now occurring across the country.
This improving employment and economic environment is in turn contributing to increased consumer confidence which is currently at one of the highest levels reported since 2007.
Meanwhile the housing market also continues its measured recovery.
Inventory levels remain below normal and while there is still price appreciation occurring in most markets it is at a more moderate and sustainable pace.
Affordability levels are compelling especially compared to rental rates which continue to climb.
We now have strong household formation once again creating demand while at the same time the housing industry struggles to create adequate supply that meets current demand levels.
It is the combination of all these factors that we believe supports a continued strengthening in the new home industry providing growth opportunities for years to come.
In closing we are pleased with our progress in the third quarter.
We are particularly encouraged by the broad-based improvements across our regions.
Our investment and product strategy is working as our new communities in all four regions are performing well and gaining strength in a housing market that is continuing to improve.
We have a nice rhythm to our business with a backlog in place that is driving more predictable results.
We are now positioned for significantly higher deliveries revenue growth and profitability in our fourth quarter.
We are entering the fourth quarter from a position of strength and as we move ahead we intend to continue to advance on our four strategic initiatives and to build on the momentum we have in our business today.
Now I will hand the call over to Jeff Kaminski who will discuss our financial results in greater detail.
Thank you Jeff and good morning everyone.
Our strong operational execution continued to drive solid fundamental business performance in the third quarter and produced results that met or exceeded our second quarter guidance across virtually all key metrics.
We are continuing to realize the benefit of the strategic repositioning and expansion of our community count as we generated a significant year-over-year increase in third quarter revenues and sequential expansion of our operating margin.
Moreover we ended the quarter with a strong backlog value which was 44% higher than a year ago and represented our highest third quarter level since 2007.
This backlog supports our expectations for year-over-year revenue growth and higher profitability in the fourth quarter.
In the third quarter our housing revenues of $799 million grew 36% from a year ago extending our trend of year-over-year revenue growth to 16 consecutive quarters.
For the fourth quarter we expect to generate housing revenues in the range of $1.04 billion to $1.10 billion as we convert our sizeable backlog into deliveries and realize continued improvement in our overall average selling price.
Land sales produced $41.6 million of revenues and $1.3 million of gross profits in the third quarter of 2015.
We had no land sales in the year ago quarter.
On a year-to-date basis land sales generated revenues of $111 million exceeding our $100 million target for the full year and produced profits of $7.1 million.
Consistent with our focus on enhancing asset efficiency we plan to continue to execute on targeted opportunities to monetize certain land positions through either sales or reactivations.
However while we are in active negotiations on additional land sales we do not anticipate that we will close any transactions during the fourth quarter.
Our overall average selling price of homes delivered grew 9% year-over-year to approximately $357 000 reflecting increases in all four of our regions.
We expect to generate an overall average selling price in the range of $374 000 million to $378 000 for the fourth quarter representing an increase of approximately 6% to 8% versus the prior year quarter.
Our housing gross profit margin of 16.2% for the third quarter was up slightly on a sequential basis and was in line with our prior guidance which assume no inventory impairment or land option contract abandonment charges.
Excluding the amortization of previously capitalized interest and housing inventory impairment and land option contract abandonment charges our third quarter adjusted housing gross profit margin was 21.1% in 2015 representing a sequential increase of 80 basis points versus the second quarter.
We expect our housing gross profit margin to increase sequentially in the fourth quarter of 2015 as we increase the proportion of homes delivered from recently opened higher margin communities gain on operating leverage through higher deliveries in the quarter and lessen the impact of start-up field cost as we convert orders to revenues in our newer communities.
Assuming no inventory impairment or land option contract abandonment charges we are still forecasting a housing gross profit margin in excess of 18% in the 2015 fourth quarter reflecting a continued narrowing of the gap versus the prior year quarter.
For the first quarter of 2016 we currently expect our housing gross profit margin to be in the mid-16% range reflecting the typical seasonal decrease in operating leverage from lower revenues in the first quarter.
However this performance would represent a favorable comparison to the prior year same quarter result and provide a strong start to the 2016 fiscal year where we expect to generate a year-over-year improvement in housing gross profit margin for the full year.
Our selling general and administrative expense ratio for the current quarter of 11.9% improved 110 basis points from the second quarter 2015.
As Jeff mentioned we still expect to generate a sequential third to fourth quarter improvement in our SG&amp;A expense ratio of 100 basis points to 150 basis points as we realize incremental revenues from our newer communities and continue to manage our overhead costs.
In the third quarter our effective income tax rate of 31.5% reflected the positive impact of federal energy tax credits we earned from delivering high efficiency homes in prior years.
For the fourth quarter we do not anticipate additional tax credit impacts and are forecasting an effective income tax rate of approximately 38%.
Our third quarter average community count rose 30% year-over-year to 257 communities which drove the increases in our net orders and net order value that Jeff summarized earlier.
During the third quarter we opened 10 new communities including one community previously held for future development.
We also closed out of 19 communities during the quarter.
Year-to-date through the end of the third quarter we have opened a total of 84 new communities and closed out of 59.
We ended the third quarter with 252 communities opened for sales up 26% from the previous year.
Due to fewer close outs than expected our quarter end count was higher than anticipated.
As a result we may have a slight sequential decline in our year end community count with potentially more communities closing out and opening in the fourth quarter.
We expect the percentage increase in our average community count for the fourth quarter in the mid-teens range as compared to the year ago quarter.
For the full year we anticipate that our average community count expansion will be in excess of 20% versus 2014 which exceeds our previous guidance.
Moving forward into the first half of 2016 we expect our year-over-year community count growth to moderate.
Nonetheless through the combination of our anticipated strong year-end backlog and our projected community count and average selling price trajectories we expect to generate an increase in full year 2016 housing revenues in a range of 10% to 25%.
For the past nine quarters we have generated year-over-year increases in our average community count reflecting the strong inventory pipeline we have built through our substantial investments in land and land development over the past few years.
During the quarter we invested $247 million in land and land development and we owned or controlled over 47 000 lots at quarter end.
We anticipate investing an additional $300 million to $400 million in land and land development during the fourth quarter to support our near-term revenue growth objectives.
Turning now to our balance sheet we retired the remaining $200 million of our June 2015 notes at their maturity date during the third quarter.
In August as we previously announced our unsecured revolving credit facility was amended to increase the committed amount from $200 million to $275 million at favorable terms and extend the maturity to August 2019.
The credit facility also contains an uncommitted accordion feature under which its total capacity maybe increased up to $450 million.
We ended the quarter with unrestricted cash of $353 million and total liquidity in excess of $625 million including the new revolver capacity.
In conclusion we are looking forward to a strong finish to our 2015 fiscal year and are entering next year with a higher backlog and community count versus the beginning of the current year.
Our expectations for revenue growth and operating margin expansion should position us for further improvements in bottom line profitability in 2016.
Now I will turn the call back over to Jeff for his concluding remarks.
Thanks Jeff.
With our plans for 2015 firmly in place we are looking toward 2016 with optimism.
We already have the land pipeline owned and controlled to meet our delivery goals for next year and we expect the financial improvements in our fourth quarter to carry into 2016.
There is a nice rhythm to our business and with our increased backlog position we’re developing a more predictable business.
While it is still early to discuss detailed projections for next year at a high level we expect to see continued improvement in our major metrics including deliveries revenues margins SG&amp;A ratio and earnings on a year-over-year basis.
We look forward to sharing our continued progress with you in the future.
Now we’ll open the call up to your questions.
Latonia? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Bob Wetenhall with RBC Capital Markets.
First question I just wanted to ask how should we think about the conversion rate both this quarter fourth quarter and into next year? And Jeff’s commentary gave a pretty wide range of guidance for homebuilding revenues next year like 10% to 25%.
And what I’m getting at is are you guys taking more moderate view towards growth expectations Jeff’s comments touched on predictability are you slowing the pace down so you have better control how should we think about that? Bob let me make a couple of comments then I’ll take it to Jeff for his methodology.
We absolutely aren’t expecting to slow down our growth rate.
We gave a broad range for next year because it’s going to be driven primarily by spring selling season and what’s going on in the world at that time.
What we’re trying to message is we’re still growing.
And I mentioned we have a nice rhythm to our business.
If you look at our backlog our deliveries our sales pace where we’re headed we’re going to end the year with a very strong backlog position that sets us up for a nice trajectory in the first half of next year.
So as we’re managing our communities we’re holding to no more than four month on average every community has its own strategy for how we optimize the returns and we’re still pushing to get our margins higher.
So we’re going to continue to elect to pull down sales pace in our stronger performers and get our margins up and in those that aren’t performing at the sales pace we need we’ll continue to do things to get sales there as well.
But as we go forward I would expect that you’ll continue to see our sales pace per community range like it has for a couple of years and will continue to drive our community count.
That’s really helpful.
Jeff? On the backlog conversion Bob as you know in the current quarter we did about 47%.
If you look at the midpoint of the range of our selling price guidance average selling price guidance and the midpoint of the range of our revenue guidance for the fourth quarter I think that gives you a backlog conversion in the 60% 61% range in that area.
Typically our fourth quarter is our strongest backlog conversion quarter.
And we expect it to probably settle back in around that 50% range that we’ve seen in the first three quarters of this year.
It’s ranged from 47% to 55% over the first three quarters.
And in fact going back into last year we had two quarters in the 50%s as well.
So with the higher backlog and the expanded backlog count in virtually all of our – actually in all of our regions that’s what we expect as far as conversion rates.
For a second question just touching on KB’s focus on profitability what are you seeing in land and labor costs? And for Jeff from a SG&amp;A perspective I think you guys historically have told the Street that you’re running like $45 million in fixed cost per SG&amp;A per quarter and 5.5% of revenues below that.
How do we think about the initiatives Jeff is touching on to manage land and labor and your fixed cost structure on the SG&amp;A side? I’ll cover the SG&amp;A side.
Yeah what we typically provide as guidance to help people with modeling is to about 5% to 6% incremental increase in SG&amp;A per dollar of revenue increase and that’s when you look at it sequentially.
That usually gets you pretty close to the mark.
We do expect to see continued SG&amp;A improvement as we go.
And like we mentioned during the prepared remarks we’re expecting 100 basis point to 150 basis point improvement in the fourth quarter and we do expect continued gains next year as we continue to drive revenues and control costs.
As to the input cost side on land every city has got a different story whether the landmark is hard or moderate and we continue to acquire land based on current pricing current absorptions and it has to hit our hurdle rate.
So we’re staying disciplined in the more desirable areas as you would expect.
Land prices are up but home prices are up with it and you just have to keep things in balance.
I touched on the pressures we’ve seen on cost and I also shared that we’ve been able to moderate that due to the size of our backlog and our starts pace and that you can become a builder of choice in a city due to a consistent housing start activity.
And I think on average our costs are up 5% to 6% build cost year-over-year.
So we’ve seen some pressure.
We continue to challenge ourselves while that’s our average it was actually some cities that have gone in direct costs year-over-year.
So every city has different pressure points and we’re constantly focused on containing and reducing costs.
Our next question comes from Mike Dahl with Credit Suisse.
Jeff I think in your opening remarks you highlighted a number of things that met or exceeded your expectations for the quarter.
I noticed that orders was not part of that and just in light of a decline in absorption there just curious to hear your thoughts on where orders were relative to your internal expectations for the quarter and what you think some of the drivers are? Mike I’d start with our unit and value comp and our net orders were up 19% and our value was up 23%.
And as we shared it supports our business plan and our projections for the fourth quarter.
So we were fine with our sales pace.
You always want to get more sales but the sales support the business plan.
And you have to put this in the right perspective.
There’s a lot of variability on the community count whether we try to do in average to smooth it out but what month of the quarter did it open what month did it close? If it opened in the last month of the quarter you’re not going to see that much in sales.
If it closes out in the first month of the quarter there’s a lot of things that drive the sales rate per community.
Having said that if you look at our absorption rates we were less than one sale per community for the quarter.
So it’s like a third of the sale a month across the system.
And to me that’s almost a rounding there.
So we’re seeing strong demand everywhere; we have a nice pace; we’re selling as needed to support our plan.
So we’re fine with our sales pace.
And then just around the comments for gross margin for next year throughout the 1Q and then you expect year-over-year improvement for the full year.
I think this year was a little more variable by quarter it took the mix shifts in the community ramp.
How should we think about just from that 1Q margin should we expect a little less seasonality going forward through 2016 than we saw this year or any thoughts around magnitude? We really haven’t guided much out into next year on the gross margin.
We did want to get the first quarter out there because I think at times our first quarter gross margins are little misunderstood.
I don’t think people appreciate the level of leverage that we see leverage loss that we see going from fourth quarter revenues on the top line to first quarter and we wanted to make sure that was understood.
And basically I also want to make sure it’s understood that’s basically all we’re forecasting right now is that loss of leverage would mean that we’re sort of in that [mid-2016] range.
So it’s relatively conservative not really looking at any potential increases in underlying margins and in some cases we have to offset a little bit of a negative mix in the first quarter.
So that’s why we pegged it there.
Typically and as we’ve been working very hard on gross margins throughout the year throughout the past couple of year is that we do expect to see improvement in gross margin as the year goes and that should be evident by what we’re guiding as far as the full year increase for 2016 off a good start in the year with first quarter increase.
So we do expect margins to be up.
Our next question comes from Megan McGrath with MKM Partners.
Just a quick clarification I might have just written this down wrong but Jeff you just said mid-2016 range for the first quarter? I had written mid-2015 which is the right number? It’s 2016.
2016 okay.
Thanks.
I must have written it wrong down the first time.
So moving on to sort of the hot topic of the last couple of weeks which is input cost labor and land can you give us any color on the absolute value of percentage increases that you’re seeing? I know it’s sometimes hard to break out but what are you seeing in terms of cost increases if you could break out labor for materials that would be great or any kind of color there.
On the direct cost side what we’re seeing we’re actually seeing some favorability in a few of the material categories.
I mean lumber is down pretty significantly; oil cost gasoline prices are down that’s reducing travel and transportation for the materials et cetera in some of the other inputs.
A lot of the commodities are down.
So most of the pressure has been on the labor side and I’d say the labor cost have offset a lot of the other base material cost.
Jeff gave some numbers on year-over-year increases what we’ve seen we also look at direct cost on an index basis and we’ll index a few homes that start at the beginning of the year and we index those same homes in where the costs are as of the most recent quarter.
And we’re seeing only about a 2% net increase in those index costs on that basis.
So material cost declines in many of the markets are offsetting or at least partially offsetting a lot of the labor increases.
But again most of the pressure has been on the labor side.
And then I had a more bigger picture question.
It’s certainly nice to see your margins your gross margins going up again or talking about going up again year-over-year by the quarter.
But you’re still a couple hundred basis points below where you’ve been underwriting to and I would assume where your goals are.
Aside from just kind of waiting for the market to recover or riding the recovery is there a thought to doing looking at it from a more fundamental basis making some big changes at the company to make sure that in the future you can reach those 20% goals? I think we’re on our track Megan.
There’s a lot of things that go into your margin improvement.
You can’t just flip a switch and go from 16% to 20% in 30 60 90 days six months nine months.
It’s a progression.
And you touched on a couple of headwinds we’ve been absorbing some cost increases along the way in our cost to build that’s a headwind that we’re still covering with our ability to hit the margin guidance that we’re giving.
So we remain committed to our gross margin percentage.
At the same time with our ASP movement the gross profit dollars per unit will climb.
And you can see how our SG&amp;A ratio is continuing to drop.
So on an operating margin basis you’ll continue to see a very favorable trajectory on the operating margin.
And within the mix that I talked about we’re reactivating communities which don’t hit our company average but generate a lot of cash.
They’re accretive to our business but they’re going to pull your margin down a little bit.
As we continue to clear those out and they become less of our business mix as more of our new communities open at the same time that’s another lift to the margin.
Our next question comes from Michael Rehaut with JPMorgan.
First question I was just trying to get hopefully a little bit of clarity around your comments around community count growth talking about obviously the great growth this year but some moderation now expected into next year as you have done a lot of the heavy lifting over the last few quarters.
So just trying to get a sense for the degree of magnitude there if you expect to end I think you said 4Q perhaps a little less than 3Q due to timing of closeouts.
What that might mean in terms of 4Q end of 2016 over 4Q end of 2015 any type of guidance in terms of a sequential cadence might be more similar to the type of sequential cadence we’ve had on an average basis of the last couple of quarters? Mike I’ll comment a bit on that.
As we’re looking at the community count right now it’s flattening and it has flattened a little bit in fact like we’ve guided to some potential sequential decline in the fourth quarter.
When you look out into next year we guided for the first half of moderation.
I think it’ll probably be up in a single digit range in the first quarter and that’s on a year-over-year average and flattish off a very difficult comp that we had this year’s second quarter.
So we saw a very large spike in our community count this year in Q2 and coming off a comp would probably be in the flattish range for Q2 next year.
And I think you’ll see a little bit of that in the first half of the year before what we hope to see a continued build in the back half of the year.
And then just in terms of the sales pace I appreciate the comments Jeff around Houston I believe you said that actually I guess it was more broadly in the Central region that absorption was flattish year-over-year and I think you also highlighted maybe some transition issues in the Bay Area so maybe implying sales pace for California it sounds like a little bit down year-over-year.
Is that correct? And maybe you could just talk about regions where we’re calculating the average sales pace down about 9% and granted as you said that’s in some ways a little bit of a rounding error but it’s still contrast to the first half of the year where it was up slightly.
So Central is flat California down some is that correct and maybe you could point to some of the other regions as well? You’re correct in part Mike.
On the flat absorption per community I was referring to Houston not Central.
It is both but Houston itself we were flat and we did experience some delays in openings due to the spring weather where it kicked out development and models are getting completed.
As I shared in California and you know our business the infill nature of the Bay Area causes your community count to be very lumpy and the extremely land constrained it’s not a large unit count and they can open and close in a quarter or two.
So you can – if you look at last year we had some openings of some of these infill communities that performed extremely well and then they’re gone.
This year we’re running a little late and we have some very significant openings on the horizon.
We announced the Patterson Ranch acquisition previously and that’s finally coming online with multi products.
And then we announced previously Communications Hill in San Jose which is coming online in the next few months with multi products.
So you’ll go from zero to eight or something like that just in those two locations in a 90-day period.
And if you look at the order count for California at 7% we didn’t want you to think that California has slowed.
It [was an odd transition] period in the Bay Area and we’re very bullish on our Bay Area business right now.
I’d say the same in SoCal the coastal area of SoCal is holding just fine.
And in our inland areas demand is fine and sales are holding.
So it was an extraordinary transition quarter I’ll call it in California.
And if you go up top and you look at our backlog position I mentioned this nice rhythm to our business now we’ve shared with you the strategy of averaging for a month you can do the math on community count and backlog and see that we’re pacing our communities at a five to six month term and we’ll sell four in a month; we’ll start four in a month; and we’ll close four in a month.
And we’re not going to let them run harder than that until we can get our margins up to our standards.
So you’ll see the movement in the unit count come from community count growth going forward.
However with our backlog and our improving ratios you’ll see a lot of profit growth.
So it’s a nice position for our business we feel we’re positioned from strength and looking forward to 2016.
Our next question comes from Alan Ratner with Zelman &amp; Associates.
Jeff I’m not sure which Jeff this is better for but on the margin you had the big community count growth in the first half of the year.
Probably haven’t seen a ton of deliveries from those communities yet.
But I was curious if you could give us any margin view on the margins you’re generating on those new community openings thus far as compared to legacy projects because that is a big driver of the positive outlook going forward? So I think any performance metrics you could give thus far would be very helpful.
You’re right in a couple of things.
The new community openings in the first half are just now starting to generate deliveries in the back half.
In fact our fourth quarter margin lift about half of that margin lift is coming from higher margins in our newly opened communities than our old ones.
So it’s starting to have an impact and we expect it to have continuous impact as we move forward.
In general just like anything with our new communities their ranging near our land book underwriting standards sometimes slightly better some worse.
But we’re seeing pretty good performance out of those both in terms of absorption pace as well as margin performance.
So we’re pleased with the acquisition and we do believe that would provide us more of a growth engine as we go into next year.
Second question on cash you actually generated quite a bit of cash flow this quarter.
I guess part of that was probably from the land sale but I would imagine fourth quarter is generally another positive cash flow quarter for you guys.
As you sit here today looking at the balance sheet you paid off the debt at maturity and I think the next maturity is not until 2017.
You’ve mentioned you’re comfortable operating with the lower cash balance.
So just curious what the various options you guys are throwing around as far as the balance sheet over the intermediate term and whether there’s any opportunities given where your stock is trading or other uses of cash aside from just holding it and waiting for some of that debt to mature? On the cash side we’re trying to do a few things on the balance sheet.
One is gain efficiency.
We’ve been talking about that for a while.
So one of the areas where we see an inefficient use of assets on the balance sheet is cash.
I mean right now it’s a non-producing non-income producing asset and we’re looking to convert as much of that into producing assets as possible.
So our view right now is to use cash we have on the balance sheet the extra firepower we have now sitting behind us with the enhanced revolving credit facility but also some of the monetization activities that are taking place as far as some of the land sales that we’re making the community reactivations to help fund the business.
We’re committed to not expanding the debt level of the company you’re right in talking about our next maturity is not until late 2017.
So we have a lot of runway.
We’ll judge based on business conditions and market conditions how much we want to invest back into land assets versus other uses of cash that could be more on the balance sheet side or as you mentioned on the shareholder side in the future.
But at this point we see a lot of opportunities to expand the business and grow the business and a lot of investment opportunities to help the company extend our top line.
Our next question comes from Susan Maklari.
In terms of California it sounds like you’re starting to see some improved demand in maybe some more inland areas.
Can you just talk about the kind of dynamics that you’re seeing especially given some of the pricing that seems to be coming through on the coastal areas? It’s a fairly typical recovery pattern.
As prices move up on the coast people get as close to the coast as they can and buy where they can afford it.
So the western end of what we call the Inland Empire the western side of Riverside and San Bernardino that commutes to work in LA or Orange County has stronger demand and less supply than the far eastern side of those two counties.
And the same thing is going on up in the Bay Area.
I mentioned in my prepared comments we’re actually seeing Sacramento gaining momentum in their recovery and it’s not – that one is not necessarily a Bay Area commuter.
They’re not going all the way to Sacramento but you have a local economy that seems to be improving and demand building due to income growth and a lack of inventory.
So you have a combination of things going on.
I think the underlying supply and demand in those markets is better and you’re seeing a little ripple come out from the coast.
And then something that we’ve got coming in about a week or so is the implementation of Tread.
Can you just talk a little bit about how you’re thinking that could potentially impact some upcoming closings and what you’re doing in anticipation of it? We’re trying to be proactive.
The wrench in the works will be that you have to as a borrower you have to sign some documents and then you can’t close for three days.
So you have to get out ahead of it and we’ve been training our sales teams partnering with Home Community Mortgage on the communication to our team and also to our customers and we’re hopeful it’s just an administrative snag but doesn’t really gum the works up for deliveries this quarter.
Our next question comes from Stephen Kim with Barclays.
This is actually Trey on for Steve.
Thanks for taking my questions.
So in the quarter you had a lower backlog turn than we were expecting and as such a little bit less closings.
To what extent does the scarcity of labor impact closings on the quarter since we’ve been hearing that’s been somewhat of an issue in Texas and Colorado? And also could you give us a feel for what Austin feels like right now? On the closing side the backlog side we’re pretty much right where we expected as far as top line revenues and deliveries.
We’re more or less in the top half of our range of guidance.
We’d anticipated our build times and we have seen some extended build times throughout the business.
That was anticipated in the guidance that we gave.
So our backlog conversion rate was in the neighborhood of what we expected for the quarter.
I’d say when we’re guiding revenues that’s key for us and that’s where we look at and what goes into it is the ASP which typically we over-perform on a little bit and we take that into account as well.
So from that side of it we’re very pleased.
Because we’re primarily build to order put it in a perspective 75% 80% of our WIP is sold and you have to be predictable with that customer to keep your customer satisfaction levels up.
So we’re pretty tight with our customer and our build times and we track what I call the cycle time which is from contract to close.
So it’s not just the build time it’s how long to take to get the customer through the studio and selection process how long does it take from the final on the home to the actual closing.
And year-over-year when I was looking at it I think we extended eight or nine day’s total.
So it’s taken eight or nine days longer than it did a year ago but as long as you manage expectations and projections you can operate within those conditions.
It’s Steve Kim thanks for that.
[I just have one or two more questions] but my second question was related to land spend we have seen across the industry an interesting trend of somewhat reducing land spend relative to revenues.
With respect to your company we’ve seen a little bit of that but you’re still relatively elevated I’d say relative to your peers.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about what you’re seeing generally in terms of land prices as transactions for land have slowed a bit are you finding that land prices are more frequently allowing you to hit your thresholds and so therefore you can pull the trigger on land deals [indiscernible] slowing down a little bit or if you could just talk a little bit about the dynamic would be helpful.
Steve I already touched on it on one answer.
You know this you’re following us over the years if you’re in an A+ location in the Bay Area there’s a lot of pressure on land and you have to be very good at getting into the land and controlling it early in the entitlement process because if you try to buy it at market it typically won’t work today.
Conversely if you get out to a B- location there is still finished lots and you can go buy what you want there’s not a lot of pressure on price but we don’t want to play in those type of dynamics today.
I would say the land markets overall have softened a little bit.
We’ve actually had some sellers come back to us where we want a high bid and somebody won the bid and we stayed to our disciplines and they’ll now come back to us because the people that tied it up higher now are in closing.
And every year we see some real opportunities here in our fourth quarter to pick up some things that are quicker hit deals where others decided not to perform.
Through that we stay disciplined and we’re holding to our hurdles and the numbers that Jeff guided are based on what we think we can invest and support our business and our growth going forward in the fourth quarter.
At this time I would like to turn the call back over to management for closing comments.
Alright thanks Latonia.
Thank you everyone for joining us on today’s call and we look forward to talking with all of you again very soon.
Thank you.
Have a great weekend.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Good morning.
My name is Robert and I will be your conference operator today.
I would like to welcome everyone to the KB Home 2015 Fourth Quarter and Year-End Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Today’s conference is being recorded and a live webcast is available on KB Home’s website at kbhome.com.
Following the Company’s opening remarks; we will open the lines for questions.
KB Home’s discussion today may include forward-looking statements that reflect management’s current views and expectations of market conditions future events and the Company’s business performance.
These statements are not guarantees of future results and the Company does not undertake any obligation to update them.
Due to a number of factors outside of its control including those identified in its SEC filings the Company’s actual results will be materially different from those expressed and/or implied by the forward-looking statements.
A reconciliation of non-GAAP measures referenced during today’s discussion to their most directly comparable GAAP measures can be found on the Company’s earnings release issued earlier today and/or on the Investor page of the Company’s website.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Jeff Mezger President and CEO for KB Home.
Mr.
Mezger you may begin.
Thank you Rob and thank you everyone for joining us today for a review of our fourth quarter results.
With me are Jeff Kaminski our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Bill Hollinger our Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer; and Thad Johnson our Senior Vice President and Corporate Treasurer.
This morning I will start with a brief overview of our fourth quarter and full-year performance followed by an update on our strategic initiatives and sustainability efforts.
Then Jeff Kaminski will provide additional detail on our financial results after which I will share a few closing remarks regarding the macro environment and our 2016 outlook before opening the call for your questions.
We finished 2015 with solid fourth quarter results capping a dynamic year for KB Home.
For the quarter we extended our topline growth trajectory with total revenues up 24% and more than doubled our pretax income from a year ago to $70 million.
Our improved profitability in the quarter was broad-based with each of our four regions performing better than the previous year.
These results confirm for us that we are in the right markets and our strategies are working to drive our performance to higher levels.
Overall 2015 shaped up to be as we forecasted on our earnings call a year ago a tale of two halves.
In the first half of the year we grew our community count and built a robust backlog that drove accelerated revenue and earnings growth in the second half.
As we anticipated all of our key metrics reached their peak levels for 2015 in the fourth quarter and with our significantly higher year-end backlog value we believe we are solidly positioned for continued year-over-year growth and profit improvement as we enter 2016.
Our business is performing well as we made further strides both operationally and financially in the fourth quarter although we did face headwinds from external factors including inclement weather conditions and subcontractor shortages in certain markets which tempered our unit deliveries and revenues and ultimately impacted our profitability for the quarter.
We experienced weather related delays in September and early October in our central region and with the constrained capacity in the available subcontractor base we were unable to make up the delays in construction and achieve our delivery goals.
With these factors exerting pressure on our operating leverage and our cost to build our fourth quarter housing gross profit margin came in below our expectations.
If we had achieved the midpoint of our delivery projections we would have been within range of our gross profit margin projection excluding the impairments.
At the same time even with the shortfall in deliveries our SG&amp;A ratio came in better than our forecast and as a result our operating margin excluding the impairments met our expectation for the quarter.
While we were disappointed with our delivery miss we are off to a solid start in our new fiscal year capturing many of the units that roll past year-end.
As a result through the first four weeks of fiscal 2016 our deliveries are up over 20%.
Next I would like to reflect on some highlights for the quarter.
Our total revenues of $986 million grew 24% from a year-ago driven by a 16% increase in deliveries and an 8% increase in average selling price to $379 800.
This marked our 17th consecutive quarter of year-over-year revenue growth and our 22nd consecutive quarter of year-over-year ASP increases.
Our overall revenue growth reflected strong double-digit increases in three of our four homebuilding regions.
Our adjusted housing gross profit margin increased to 110 basis points from the third quarter to 22.2%.
We were also successful in narrowing the year-over-year gap in our adjusted housing gross profit margin to 50 basis points a substantial improvement from the 230 basis point gap in the first quarter.
Our SG&amp;A ratio of 10% improved 190 basis points from the third quarter and 50 basis points from a year ago.
This represents our best fourth quarter SG&amp;A result since 2007.
Pretax income increased 144% year-over-year to $70 million our highest fourth quarter pretax income in 10 years.
Our fourth quarter net orders and ending backlog reflect both healthy demand in our served markets and our higher community count.
Overall net order value for the quarter grew 15% from a year ago to $676 million on a 10% increase in net orders.
Net orders were up on a year-over-year basis in all four of our regions with the largest percentage increases occurring in the West Coast and Southeast.
Traffic to our communities was the highest we have seen for any fourth quarter since 2007 indicating strong interest in our product offerings and locations.
We ended the year with a geographically diverse backlog comprised of nearly 4000 homes up 36% from a year ago.
Our ending backlog value grew 40% year-over-year to $1.3 billion reflecting increases across all of our regions.
In terms of both homes and value this was our highest year-end backlog since 2007 and provides excellent visibility for potential deliveries and revenues for the first half of 2016.
Now turning to some highlights of our 2015 full-year results.
For the year we reported topline revenues of $3 billion representing a 26% increase from 2014 and the highest revenues we’ve generated since 2008.
Housing revenues were up 23% and 14% more homes delivered and an 8% increase in our average selling price.
We delivered 8 196 homes in 2015 which is the largest number of homes we’ve delivered since 2009.
Our average selling price for the year reached a new all-time high of $354 800.
We generated 113 million in revenues from land sales as we took the opportunity to monetize non-strategic or non-essential asset this result exceeded our target for the year of $100 million.
Pretax income rose 34% to $127 million signifying our best performance for the past nine years and our third consecutive year of profitability.
We posted diluted earnings per share of $0.85 excluding last year's result which reflected our deferred tax asset valuation allowance reversal this was our highest diluted EPS result since 2006.
And finally for the year net orders increased 22% to $9 253 marking our highest net orders since 2007.
Throughout 2015 we’ve focused on four key strategic initiatives and made significant progress that is reflected in our financial and operational results.
As a reminder these initiatives are to grow our community count drive higher revenue per community increase our profitability per unit and to enhance our asset efficiency and return on invested capital.
Through consistent execution on these initiatives over the past three years we have improved our results and positioned KB Home for continued success in 2016 and beyond.
Let me take you through some of the progress we have made.
Expanding our community count has been an important driver of the year-over-year growth in our deliveries revenues net orders and backlog.
During 2015 we opened 98 new communities and attractive markets across the country and increased our average community count by 22%.
Over the past three years we’ve expanded our community count by 44% with all regions posting double-digit increases.
We ended 2015 with 247 communities opened for sales.
As we expected and shared with you on our last earnings call the year-over-year growth in our community count moderated in the fourth quarter from earlier in the year.
Nonetheless we’re well-positioned as we currently own and control all of the lots needed to achieve our 2016 delivery forecast and a majority of the lots needed for our projected 2017 deliveries.
We are committed to increasing our community count further and to this end anticipate investing at least $1.5 billion in land and development during 2016.
With regard to our other initiatives we continue to focus on increasing our revenue per community by targeting desirable new locations offering homes designed to meet the needs of our buyers and mining the opportunities for revenue enhancements such as lot and elevation premiums and studio options that are available through our Built to Order approach.
Our progress has reflected in the 8% year-over-year increase in our average selling price for 2015 to an all-time Company record.
Over the past three years annual housing revenues on a per community basis have increased 39% to $11.9 million.
We’ve made major strides since the first quarter by pulling the right revenue and cost levers to drive sequential improvement in our housing gross profit margin.
As anticipated the sequential improvement in our housing gross profit margin for the fourth quarter was driven by several factors a greater proportion of deliveries from newer communities which typically have higher margins a gain in operating leverage from our accelerating revenue growth and the fact that the impact of additional field overhead associated with the ramp-up in our community count earlier in the year has diminished as more of these newer communities have started producing revenues.
Over the past three years our gross profit dollars per home delivered has increased significantly climbing to $58 000 in 2015 from $34 500 in 2012 an increase of $23 500 per home or 68%.
We’re pleased with the progress we’ve made on our primary initiatives in 2015 and the measurable impacts they’ve had on our financial and operational results over the past three years.
Through these initiatives we generated improvement in key financial and operational metrics including deliveries revenues gross profit margin pretax income net orders and ending backlog.
In 2015 our revenues increased and our pretax results improved on a year-over-year basis for the fourth consecutive year.
Even with the headwinds of weather and trade labor capacity our business is operating with a nice healthy rhythm and we have momentum as we move into 2016.
Next I’d like to share some exciting recent developments on the sustainability front.
First in October we were recognized as a grand award winner in the production category at the Department of Energy 2015 Housing Innovation Awards.
This recognition is especially meaningful because KB Home is the first national builder to win a grand award.
We’d submitted our Double ZeroHouse 3.0 for this competition.
This award winning design which featured solar energy and graywater recycling system is currently modeled in our Fiora at Blackstone community located in El Dorado Hills California a submarket of Sacramento.
Second in November we’ve received the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency 2015 WaterSense Sustained Excellence Award.
The highest level award from the EPA we are the first and only national homebuilder to be recognized with this award for making a difference every day through water efficiency innovation and WaterSense promotion.
Our sustainability principles have been a significant focus of our business for many years and it was an honor to be recognized by the EPA for our ongoing commitment to water efficiency.
Water is our most precious resource and between the WaterSense labeled homes we’ve constructed and all the water efficient features we have installed in our homes we’re saving an estimated 3 million gallons of water every day or the equivalent of four-and-a-half Olympic-sized swimming pools.
We plan to continue our work to innovate in this area.
We have found that what is good for the environment is also good for our customers.
Both of these prestigious awards service extraordinary recognition of our efforts.
In summary the fourth quarter provided a solid finish to a pivotal year for KB Home.
In 2015 we extended our topline growth trajectory and generated higher profits while advancing our strategic initiatives and investing in our operating platform to grow our community count.
We ended the year stronger than we started with both revenues and earnings accelerating the second half of the year versus the first half.
In fact over 80% of our pretax income for 2015 was generated in the second half of the year.
Moreover our adjusted housing gross profit margin continued to strengthen on a sequential basis as the year unfolded.
In the fourth quarter we narrowed the year-over-year gap in our adjusted housing gross profit margin to 50 basis points representing a 180 basis point improvement from the first quarter year-over-year comparison.
With our current backlog position we expect to cross over to a positive adjusted housing gross profit margin comparable in the first quarter.
At the same time we will focus on continuing to improve our SG&amp;A ratio through controlling our overhead while growing our revenue in our current operating footprint.
Before turning the call over to Jeff I would like to recognize all members of the KB Home team for their hard work and dedication.
It is only through their collective efforts and commitment to excellence that we continue to drive improved performance and remain an industry leader on sustainability.
I am grateful to each of you for your efforts and contribution to our success as a Company and I look forward to continuing to advance our results in 2016.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jeff Kaminski who will discuss our financial results in more detail.
Thank you Jeff and good morning everyone.
In the fourth quarter we continue to realize the benefits from the implementation of our core strategies including the repositioning and measurable expansion of our community count.
Among these benefits we achieved significant sequential and year-over-year increases in housing revenues operating margin and pretax income for the quarter.
The growth in our operating platform also help drive our backlog at November 30 2015 to nearly 4 000 homes a 36% increase from a year ago and approximately $1.3 billion in value up 40% year-over-year.
Both backlog measures reached their highest year-end levels since 2007.
With this robust backlog we expect to be able to drive further revenue growth and increase our profitability in 2016.
In the fourth quarter housing revenues increased 25% to $980 million from $784 million in the corresponding period of 2014 reflecting a 16% increase in homes delivered and an 8% rise in our overall average selling price.
Despite the strong year-over-year revenue increase our delivery and revenue results came in below our expectations for the quarter as construction delays tempered our conversion rate by about 6 percentage points to 55% of beginning backlog.
This shortfall in homes delivered and in the corresponding revenues impacted both our operating income and bottom line earnings.
For 2016 we expect to generate housing revenues in the range of $3.35 billion to $3.65 billion for the full-year and in the range of $600 million to $660 million for the first quarter as we convert our sizable backlog into homes delivered and realize continued year-over-year improvement in our overall average selling price.
This full-year 2016 result would extend the year-over-year growth trajectory that we have generated over the last four years.
The year-over-year increase in our overall average selling price of homes delivered to approximately $380 000 for the quarter reflected increases in all four of our homebuilding regions.
For the first quarter of 2016 we expect an overall average selling price of approximately $340 000 representing a slight increase on a year-over-year basis.
For the full-year we expect growth in our overall average selling price to moderate given the level we have reached with 22 consecutive quarters of year-over-year increases.
We believe our overall average selling price for 2016 will increase by about 6% to 8% as compared to 2015.
Our housing gross profit margin of 17.2% for the fourth quarter was up 100 basis points on a sequential basis and included $5.1 million of inventory impairment and land option contract abandonment charges impacting gross profit margin by about 50 basis points.
The margin shortfall for the quarter relative to our prior guidance which excluded inventory impairment and abandonment charges was mainly due to the earlier mentioned revenue shortfall and the corresponding reduction in operating leverage.
Excluding the amortization of previously capitalized interest in inventory impairment and land option contract abandonment charges our current quarter adjusted housing gross profit margin was 22.2% representing a sequential increase of 110 basis points versus the third quarter and a decline of 50 basis points from the fourth quarter 2014.
In the fourth quarter we made significant progress in narrowing the year-over-year gap in our margin comparison from earlier in the year.
Assuming no inventory impairment or land option contract abandonment charges we are forecasting housing gross profit margin for the 2016 first quarter of approximately 16% reflecting the seasonal decrease in operating leverage from lower revenues in the first quarter.
This performance would represent an improvement from the year ago 15.2% result excluding land option contract abandonment charges and provide a strong start to 2016 where we expect to generate a full-year housing gross profit margin north of 17%.
Our selling general and administrative expense ratio of 10% for the current quarter improved 190 basis points from the third quarter of 2015 and 50 basis points versus the year earlier quarter beating our prior guidance despite the lower-than-expected revenue performance in the quarter.
The current quarter ratio is our lowest fourth quarter ratio since 2007.
We believe we will continue to realize year-over-year improvements in our SG&amp;A expense ratio in each quarter of 2016 driven by our cost containment efforts and improved operating leverage.
We expect the full-year ratio to be in the low 11% range.
Our fourth quarter pretax income of $70 million more than doubled from the year earlier quarter and is our best fourth quarter results since 2005.
Our fourth quarter average community count rose 17% year-over-year to 250 which drove the increases in our net orders and net order value that Jeff summarized earlier as well as the favorable revenue operating margin pretax income and backlog results I mentioned at the beginning of my remarks.
During the fourth quarter we opened 14 new communities including two communities previously held for future development.
We also closed out of 19 communities during the quarter.
We ended the year with 247 communities opened for sales up 9% from a year ago.
We expect our average community count to increase by approximately 5% in the first quarter 2016 as compared to the same quarter of 2015.
For the full-year we currently expect our average community count to be relatively flat compared to our 2015 average which expanded 22% from 2014.
For the past 10 quarters we generated year-over-year increases in our average community count reflecting the strong inventory pipeline we have built through our substantial investments in land and land development over that period.
During the current quarter we invested $266 million in land and land development and we owned or controlled over 47 000 lots at quarter end.
We ended the quarter with unrestricted cash of $559 million and total liquidity in excess of $810 million including the unused capacity under our unsecured revolving credit facility.
In conclusion we are looking forward to a strong start to our 2016 fiscal year and expect to see year-over-year improvements in our key financial metrics for both the first quarter and the full-year.
Our expectations for revenue growth and operating margin expansion should position us for further gains and profitability in 2016.
Before closing I would like to cover one housekeeping item relating to future quarter and communications.
Starting with the first quarter of 2016 we planned to post our earnings news release and conduct our conference call after the market closes.
We believe this change will enhance our ability to provide more immediate commentary and investor dialogue on our quarterly results and outlook.
Now I'll turn the call back over to Jeff for his concluding remarks.
Thanks Jeff.
As we enter 2016 we believe the housing market is on firm ground and expect housing to continue to be a major catalyst of the economic recovery.
We also believe that market conditions will continue to gradually improve supported by employment growth increased household formation and low inflation.
We anticipate demand will be boosted by the large millennial population that is expected to be purchasing more homes in 2016 as well as the so-called boomerang buyers who lost their homes in the downtown and are now returning.
In December the Federal Reserve raised interest rates for the first time in nine years.
This is a positive signal that the U.S.
economy is stronger.
We do not believe that this increase will have an immediate or significant impact on the mortgage market.
While mortgage rates are expected to rise in 2016 in most markets buying a home will continue to be a more attractive affordable alternative to renting.
Moreover the Fed’s action is likely a signal that the improvement in the job market is going to lead to increases in household income which will be a positive for the housing sector.
We are optimistic as we enter 2016; we’re seeing strong demand supported by the broader economy and are well-positioned for the opportunities ahead.
Our backlog levels give us great visibility for a potentially strong first half of the year.
We have some exciting new community openings planned ahead of the spring selling season.
As is always the case our full-year results will largely be driven by the spring selling season and we will continue to update you on our progress as the year unfolds.
In contrast with the tale of two halves we had in 2015.
We expect to have a positive start to 2016 with year-over-year improvement in our key financial metrics beginning in the first quarter.
We are entering 2016 stronger and better positioned than at anytime in recent years.
Our accomplishments over the past 12 months demonstrate that our strategies are working to drive continued growth and improved profitability.
While we’re disappointed in our delivery shortfall in the fourth quarter we've already course corrected and will regain our normalized delivery performance going forward.
With the beginning backlog value that is up 40% over the prior year we expect to generate higher deliveries higher revenues and a higher operating margin in every quarter of 2016 as compared to the previous year.
The combination of these favorable metrics should lead the year-over-year earnings growth in each quarter as well.
Looking ahead we're in the fortunate position of owning and controlling the lots we need to achieve our delivery goals for 2016 as well as most of 2017.
In order to meet our longer-term growth targets we plan to significantly ramp-up our investments in land and land development in 2016.
Our planned higher investment level will be largely focused on fueling community count growth entering 2017 and beyond.
In closing we are energized and poised for a successful year as we enter 2016.
Our mission is clear execute on our strategy provide a great customer experience and create value for our stockholders.
We have great opportunities ahead of us and I truly believe the best is yet to come.
Now we’ll open the call up to your questions.
Rob? Thank you.
At this time we will be conducting a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Michael Rehaut with JP Morgan.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi thanks.
Good morning everyone.
First question I had was on the gross margins.
I believe you kind of identified the gross margins this quarter the difference between the result and the guidance being effectively all driven by the leverage impact from the revenues lower-than-expected revenues.
In looking at first quarter guidance now at 16% I believe versus previously looking for mid-16% I was wondering if you could just walk us through what that reduction was given that you're expecting to - it sounded like you're expecting to make up a lot of the revenue shortfall.
You said the closings were coming through so far in the first quarter.
A lot of that that was missed.
And just more broadly in terms of the 17% number that's still obviously below 13 and 14 despite a much higher revenue base and just thoughts around that 17% why that maybe isn't at this point getting back to the 18% type of range at least? Right Mike.
I guess I will cover that.
Starting with the first quarter at this point obviously we’re quarter further into it.
We have better visibility at our backlog and I think more importantly better visibility to what we expect to deliver out of our backlog.
If you look at the run rate where we’re at in the fourth quarter compared to the first quarter the step down is basically predominantly due to the lost leverage in the first quarter on lower revenue numbers.
So it's really a mixed factor on what we see coming out of the backlog.
Visibility for the full-year isn’t quite as clear obviously.
The backlog carries us through the second quarter.
A lot will depend on the strength of the spring selling season and our ability to price appropriately and continue to control costs but at this point that’s what we are seeing and we wanted to guide out for the full-year to give everyone a bit of a feel our expectations.
Again we’re optimistic about a good strong spring selling season and with that we hope to be improving on the results in the back half of the year.
Great.
Thank you Jeff.
And then just second question on SG&amp;A very strong result there in the quarter at 10% and I believe you're looking for something actually closer to like 10.5% to 11% and so you hit that 10% SG&amp;A number despite lower than expected revenues.
I was wondering if there was – what kind of drove the results there? Did you cut back on certain areas? Was there any perhaps also if there is any we’ve got in questions if there were any perhaps one-time benefits any better granularity around that very strong result? Sure.
I think I can help out on that as well.
I’ll kind of respond to it in two ways one on absolute basis and one relative to guidance.
So on an absolute basis we did have some positives and some negatives that were basically offsetting and we had what I’d call fairly normalized quarter on the expense item and we had good expense control in the quarter we were able to take advantage of the benefits of the higher revenues relative to last year for example or even to the third quarter and drove the ratio down so that was a nice end result for us.
In relation to guidance we did expect and we were anticipating having to take a couple of one off negatives in the quarter relating to some legal reserves and some other items which we were fortunately able to avoid doing and that drove basically the increase in the quarter.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Susan Maklari with UBS.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you good morning.
Good morning.
It sounds like you're doing a good job in terms of making up some of the lost deliveries from the fourth quarter.
But given the fact that some of these issues seem to be sort of continuing on how should we think about the conversion as we go through the year and the potential for maybe some further kind of bumps there? Susan let me provide a little color and then I will give Jeff for the projected conversion ratios.
It was a very interesting year that evolved for us and as I shared in my comments disappointed that we missed in deliveries.
The labor shortages have been around for quite some time and as the year evolved quarter after quarter our build time was within a day in the first second and third quarter so we were managing pretty well through the subcontractor stress that’s out there.
In the fourth quarter there were heavy rains in both Texas and Colorado where our production stalled for three weeks maybe four weeks depending on the city.
And we called upon the trade base to help us compress and get it back and we just didn't have the capacity to get that done so we missed deliveries and I think as we go forward we’ll be able to sort out and work through the excess units that hung because we couldn't get them done while we’re continuing to start homes behind it.
So I think you’ll see us quickly get right back to the rhythm and the typical conversions that we were guiding to and hitting all year really until the fourth quarter but if you want to walk her through some of your assumptions Jeff.
Right.
Yes for the first quarter based on the revenue guidance and the ASP guidance we are looking at conversions in the mid to high 40s which is down a bit versus prior year but again with as Jeff commented on the construction times extending out we wanted to take that into account as we guided out.
The full-year as we go through the second third and fourth quarter we hope to compress that further and get back to more normalized levels.
Okay thanks.
That's helpful.
And then just in terms of you talked about the strong liquidity position that you have and given where the stock is trading and obviously your optimism for 2016 can you talk about perhaps your appetite to do share repurchases or other uses of shareholder returns for your cash? Like any CEO I think our equity right now is undervalued but when you’re trading at the level you are at you can ignore that opportunity but having said that right now we are focused on driving our topline and growing our business.
We think that will give us the best return for the shareholders.
Okay thanks.
Our next question is from Stephen East with Evercore.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Maybe the first one is for Jeff Kaminski.
Jeff can you talk about a little bit on the miss how much was the labor shortage versus the construction the weather delays that you were seeing and could you talk a little bit about how much labor cost you're seeing up year over year? Right yes I think those two things are fairly difficult to segregate.
The weather issues put more stress on the subcontractor base and it created some issues as far as catch up.
So as we evaluated it division by division and went through the delivery miss that we had across several of the divisions the bulk – the vast percentage of it was basically caused by those two factors and it's – I apologize but it’s a very difficult to segregate.
As far as cost increase goes in 2015 there was inflation we did see inflation at the subcontractor level we did see some favorability in the material side which helped to offset that.
We do believe we offset pretty much all that inflation with pricing as we went through the year.
And to put a bit in perspective it’s difficult at times to evaluate because of changing mix and changing communities and changing plans that you're delivering and et cetera but we do index certain plans and we index plans that were started at the beginning of the year and then we index those same plans at the end of each quarter actually at the end of each month.
So if you look back at the beginning of the year index plans versus the index plans that we started in November overall cost to build are up about 2.7%.
So it was more or less a controlled year was better than we saw in 2014 again we think we offset virtually all that with pricing during the year and we’re watchful of it as we move forward as there are continuing concerns in the market but we thought we had a pretty good year on cost containment.
Yes okay.
I appreciate that.
And then if you look at the orders you all had at a lot of moving parts within your different regions Southeast much better than expected and Central little bit less I assume that's Houston.
Would you all mind just talking a little bit about the trends you all were seeing in the various regions and is there anything that makes you think those are going to change or accelerate? Stephen I can give some high level comments and again Jeff can give little more granularity to it.
I shared in my prepared remarks that we actually saw the highest traffic levels per store we’ve seen in many years and I think it's a combination of the products and locations we have and also that there's a strong desire among the consumer to be homeowners.
That’s very encouraging and that's normally a good indicator of where things are headed.
You definitely hit it when you said we have lots of moving parts if you look for instance in the Southwest in the third quarter we had a soft comp the year before we had a lot of grand openings and we had an incredible positive sales comp in the third quarter and I think we digesting that some in the fourth quarter in the Southeast if you touched on it we had stronger sales than we’ve seen and that’s very encouraging.
In our Central region we had a positive comp for the region Houston was off but at the same time Austin and Denver had very strong sales in the quarter so the portfolio of the region still had a positive comp.
So I’d say overall demand is good the dynamics are still good whether it’s demographics the inventory levels mortgage rates job growth all the positive things are there that tell us when coupled with the traffic that things are holding if not going to improve here in the spring so… Okay.
Yes is the Southeast do you think that strong Southeast is sustainable and then on Houston are you all seeing that market change quarter-over-quarter any for your lower price points? Again I’ll make two comments and kick to Jeff.
Okay.
Southeast we do expect that we’ll continue to grow our sales there it’s been our laggard region we’ve been working to improve the results and improve the sales we've had some nice community openings and we do expect that to continue to improve going forward.
If you go to Houston specifically we knew this would be a question.
As I already said our region had positive comps and our sales were off in Houston.
So we covered it with more than enough strength out of Denver and Austin.
But specific to Houston for starters our community count was down year-over-year and it was really with intent.
We pulled back on investment early in the year when oil started to slide down and decided let’s take some chips off the table until things stabilize and there’s clarity to the market and as a result to our community count was down.
On our last quarter call we shared that for that quarter our sales per community were flat on a per community basis versus the prior year and that we saw some softening in the price points above 300.
In the fourth quarter and since that time we've experienced some softening at the lower price point I’d say down to 250.
So the slowdown is further down the price band.
Our first time and what I would call our affordable first move up communities are continuing to sell well at high margin and solid sales pace below 250.
So the communities we have that are above 250 and we do have some we’re quickly rotating to smaller footages lower spec levels and we’re going to drive our price down hopefully holding our margin percentages.
So we’re being pretty proactive there.
For the year or for the quarter I’m sorry in Houston our ASP delivered was just over 220 so our book of business there is still positioned where there is strength.
And we still view Houston as a real opportunity.
It’s a large market it’s a diversified economy.
You just have to stay strategic right now until there’s clarity and we’re going to keep working to move our price points down until oil settles and we know where it’s headed.
Right okay and I think just staying on Houston for a minute since we have the opportunity to add a little more detail you know there’s a lot written on percentage exposure of the company and what our exposure is in the Houston market.
And I just want to clarify with some facts internal-based facts on where we sit today.
In the fourth quarter our revenue was about 6.5% of our total revenue was coming out of Houston we had about almost 12% of our community count there and about 11% of our delivery.
So it was a relatively you know it’s a significant division for us but it’s not an overwhelming division for the company in total.
I think importantly we have a very well run division there and it’s been improving over the years we saw margins improve from the beginning of the year to the end of the year fairly significantly in that marketplace and I think we’re controlling the risk there quite effectively as Jeff mentioned we did ratchet back on investment earlier in the year and we’re very watchful and particularly with what we do with the price points in our open community.
So I think that's all positive and risk mitigation factors that we put in place.
Splashing back or going back to your sales comps we had single-digit sales comps in the Southwest and Central and pretty strong double-digit comps in California and the Southeast as you mentioned.
And we thought it was a reasonably solid quarter for us from the point of view of sales.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Ivy Zelman with Zelman &amp; Associates.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey guys good afternoon.
Happy New Year.
Hi Ivy.
When I look at it right now is the stock is getting and has been underperforming and getting crushed and the stock is trading below book value.
A lot of people are looking at your balance sheet and recognizing you've got right now a pretty nice situation with $800 million-plus in availability or cash plus what is available on the revolver.
But starting in 2017 you've got several hundred million and then in 2018 and thereafter and obviously the capital markets could help refinance that debt as you look out.
But the market is saying that you're not going to survive because the economy is going to roll over we're going to have a recession and you guys are buying land going into 2016 and to 2017 your gross margins are still well below where they were in 2013 and 2014.
So how do you give us comfort that you're going to be able to manage the business if the economy was to slow? And incrementally you're underwriting when you're buying land today without having the same momentum I think Jeff Kaminski you said that pricing is going to moderate.
We know costs are inflating so I think when you look at the processes or controls that are in place what can you give us to help us get comfortable that you're going to mitigate the risk that the Company's leverage is not going to catch up right at exactly the time that the economy is going to roll over? So I think that's why the stock is trading where is trading.
You said a lot Ivy and I’ll address some of it and then again kick it to Jeff but we’re only going to make the investments if they are going to hit our returns and they are in line with our strategy and they support our business.
And in 2015 we actually had a higher number targeted that we were willing to invest and we didn't hit it because we were having difficulty finding opportunities and places like Houston we stayed cautious.
We have seen the land markets come down a bit and the demand has softened and there are opportunities out there in very solid submarkets where we can invest and get our returns.
And I think one of the things that’s not understood if you look at our balance sheet is as we are growing the earnings we’re not paying taxes and we’re generating cash through the tax avoidance.
And going forward to 2017 right now we think we can support our investment target.
We think we can run our business we think we can continue to improve our balance sheet and deal with the debt in 2017 as it comes.
Jeff that's helpful.
Go ahead sorry.
Yes sorry I was just going to add on to that a little bit.
I mean I’m surprised I guess to hear some of your comments being so extreme on the Company that particularly the way we’ve been managing the capital structure and the cash flows we’ve had very strong liquidity for a couple of years we have just put an expanded revolver in place recently we still haven’t touched it.
So I think from that point of view from a liquidity point of view it has been very strong.
The next maturity as you point out I mean 2016 is the first year we’ve had since I have been with the Company where we didn’t have maturities coming due this year so we have a plenty of runway out ahead of us on that.
And I think another important factor is given the leverage which is coming down by the way we’re below 55% on a net basis at the end of the year.
Over the last three years we brought down the total interest incurred ratio to revenues by over 220 basis points and that’s also helping I think in many respects the Company and our ability to service the debt and to continue to operate profitably as we have been.
So like I said I was a bit surprised by the… Well no I think I'm just tried to play devil's advocate.
I mean your bonds are trading at Park.
I think the bond market is not as worried as the equities and I'm trying to get you address that you are providing strong cash flow and liquidity.
On the one hand though pricing is moderating; margins again are below where they were in 2013 and 2014.
So people are saying okay if prices get hit gross margins are going to be down this is a levered situation so I think just putting it in some perspective and I think Jeff as you talk about your being more obviously careful on land purchases today when we think about home prices how much do your home prices in 2016 how much do they have the go up in order for you to hold margin? And maybe giving us some more clarity around what the cushion is so to speak in the gross margin levels that you're at today.
I think Michael Rehaut asked the question with revenue significantly higher than where they were in 2013 and 2014 but yet your gross margin is below I'm not sure how you can address that.
But I think that's why the stock is weak and we're trying to provide more clarity to investors that are saying hey the stock is trading below book value is housing crashing or what? So that's really Jeff where it's coming from.
Okay.
There’s a couple of factors to operating margin as well the SG&amp;A side is the other one we've seen big improvements in the SG&amp;A side over the last few years which is also helping on that basis.
More specific to your question when you look at where we expect margins to be we do expect margins north of 17% next year we do expect pricing to moderate and that’s baked into our margin estimates for the year.
We’ve had on the cost side like I said we had our very good year actually in 2015 as materials offset some of the other increases that we saw on the marketplace.
So we’re reasonably confident in being able to expand our operating margin in 2016 despite market conditions or because of market conditions in fact.
So that’s kind of where we’re – how we see it looking out at this point in time.
Okay.
Good luck thanks guys.
Thanks Ivy.
Our next question is from Stephen Kim with Barclays Bank.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks very much guys.
Yes just sort to follow-up on the land spend commentary I think you had indicated the level of land spend that you're targeting next year which would imply something close to the low 40s as a percentage of revenues next year that is quite high.
In the fourth quarter you only did 27% for example and we've observed a lot of the other builders in the industry curtailing their land buying activity.
I think Jeff you mentioned that you saw land prices starting to come down.
I think that's a function of the fact that you're not the only ones that have been cautious in tightening the purse strings on land.
Next year the land spend that you've talked about from the $1.5 billion I think you said that that was primarily for 2017 growth.
So I wanted to explore that a little bit.
If you were to let's say spend $1 billion or less materially below the level you are guiding to.
Can you shape out for me what impact that would have on your ability to grow in 2017? Because my feeling would be that land spend of about $1 billion which should be sufficient for you to maintain the momentum in the business but you seem to be implying that you sort of need to spend closer to $1.5 billion in order to be able to maintain the momentum in 2017.
So just if you could help me understand what a lower level of land spend like about $1 billion or so what that would do to your business? Sure like as we shared in our prepared remarks Stephen we own everything for 2016 we own the majority of 2017 we feel we have a lot of upside in our served markets if we can identify and take advantage of opportunities that come our way to grow our business beyond our current growth track if they don't materialize we still have a growth story today.
So when you look at land spend and the builders all reported little different our number includes land development and the fees we pay and as you know in California you can have a pretty intensive fees structure in parts of the state where the fees alone can be [$100 000] a unit.
And as you look around our business in Texas we could grow all day long spending 30% of revenue on land in California where your cost is often 50% of revenue you have to spend more to have a growth trajectory there as well and then it’s quicker deal when you close and your margins are typically higher so you still get the returns but we have a pretty broad range of cost off as a percent of revenue and then in turn investment as a percent of revenue depending on where we decide to invest.
Great.
Just to give a little clarity on that on the cost off side the range for us sort of in the low 20s to low 40s is cost off depending on the market as Jeff said.
Okay that's helpful.
Let's talk about California if we could a little bit.
How much of the land spend that you would sort of talked about that $1.5 billion would we think is primarily on the West Coast and can you give us a sense also if you're willing to break out California specific or just the Western region if you could talk about whether you anticipate gross margins to be up and prices to be up in that region into 2016? I can talk to the strategy side and Jeff can share on the assumptions on price and margins.
California is about 50% of our business so in rough terms we’d spend 50% of our investment dollars within the state of California.
The market remains good here it’s continuing to expand there's more opportunity inland in addition to the coast that are so land constrained and the land spend can be lumpy.
One dealer in California can move your number a lot and you can close in the fourth quarter versus the first quarter which is what happened in 2014 versus 2015 that moves the number around quite a bit but the market remains good and I’d say whatever our investment number ends up being for the year it will be 50% to 55% California.
Great and Jeff price trends gross margin trend in Cali? Price trends we expect to see – to be honest there are some big fluctuations quarter-to-quarter in our ASPs just based on opening of new communities and some very high price point product that will be a little bit lumpy as we go through the year.
We are baking that into the guidance and we’ll try to help you guys as far as model building by baking that into the overall company guidance because some of those openings and communities that we will be delivering out in future quarters will have a little bit of a lumpy impact and particularly so if you just look at the West region on a standalone basis.
We do believe the margins in the region have been strong for us and we believe we will continue that strength as we go through the year many of the markets in California are still very strong markets for us and we’ve been pretty successful in land acquisition.
So that’s – it’s a price spot for the company its half of our business and we see it as strategically strong area for us.
Okay great.
Thanks very much guys.
Our next question is from Megan McGrath with MKM Partners LLC.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks for taking my call.
I wanted to start with your community count comments into 2016.
If I look at 2015 you had strong community count growth which basically mimicked your order growth for the year.
So as we think about a flattening out of community count growth this year are you doing things to increase your absorption pace? Because I'm certain you don't want to end 2016 with flat order growth and flat backlog.
So with a flat community count growth or low community count growth how do you get your order growth up? How do you get that absorption pace growth up so you're ending this fiscal year in as good a spot as you ended 2015? Megan we always try to be careful to avoid the trap of the averages because an average doesn’t always tell the full story.
And a good example would be our community count ended the year yet our backlog is up so much.
And I say that because the community opens in the first month of a quarter versus the third it can drive a lot of sales up or down in either direction.
So the sales will range with the community growth we’re still loading in some deals that are finished lot deals that we can open get open for business in 2016 and we expect to have sales growth that will be aligned or slightly better with whatever our community count ends for the year.
Okay.
And then I want to go back to basics a little bit on the gross margin because I do think there is some confusion about the drivers there.
So if we take the full-year 2015 ex-impairments and compare it to the full-year 2014 you are down about 200 basis points.
You said that you offset higher prices or higher costs with higher prices and your volume was up so that leads me to believe that the 200 basis point decline was mix related.
Am I talking about that correctly and if so where did that happen where did that mix impact you the most.
That’s correct Megan.
I mean we had tremendous community count shifts going on with closeouts and openings over the last 12 months to 18 months which accounted for the majority of it.
We talked a lot about it earlier in the year where we had some very very high margin communities in the Northern California region that closed out in 2014 and impacted margins across the business; they were high price points and high margin communities.
So that was the bulk of it.
With the new communities coming online and starting to mature we believe we can continue to drive some level of gross margin improvement as we go into 2016.
Okay thanks.
That's helpful.
Our last question is from Nishu Sood with Deutsche Bank.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks.
I wanted to go back to the land spend trends for a minute.
2014 you spent $1.5 billion against a $1.6 billion targeted.
Last year came in at $1 billion and as you mentioned that was lower than the 1.1 to 1.4 you had targeted.
And now you're targeting $1.5 billion for next year.
So I just wanted to get a sense of broader sense of why the pullback in 2015 and then the re-acceleration in 2016.
Earlier questions have touched upon some of the potential issues perhaps a balance sheet constraints.
Jeff M.
you mentioned that opportunities were a little bit less in 2015 as compared to 2016 but just wondering if you could take a step back and help us understand the main drivers behind first pulling back and now re-accelerating heading into 2016.
Sure.
One of the things I failed to mention before Nishu is my analogy would be it’s not a straight diagonal line when you're fueling growth where it’s just keep the jets on and keep investing in a community count all hits and you have a straight line.
My analogy would be it’s more of a stair step.
And in 2014 we spent more on land than we did on development and fees in 2015 it slipped we weren’t finding as many land opportunities but we were spending money to improve communities that we had acquired at the end of 2014.
So we are spending dollars on development and bringing things to market and that's what drove the community count growth.
So now those are all open.
I think the profile that communities that we acquired in 2013 2014 and 2015 were higher lot counts than in 2010 2011 and 2012 when we were opportunistically buying a lot of finished lots and those are all gone so you have a bigger lot count in a community you spend the dollars to develop it and then you can run it longer before you have to reload it in 2015 it tilted to development I think in 2016 we still have development tranche but you will see it tilt to a little more land.
Yes to clarify one of your comments to Nishu definitely was not a balance sheet or liquidity constraint that cause the under spend in 2015 ending the year with over $800 million of liquidity I think takes out and raises their concept.
Got it.
That's very helpful.
And then a second question cancellation rate trends using the typical percentage of gross orders has had a pretty nice trend throughout 2015 and improving you had 500 basis points roughly of improvement year-over-year in the fourth quarter.
So I wanted to get a sense of what's been driving that most builders have been seeing relatively flat cancellation trends.
So is that a function of the sorts of communities because obviously you had massive community count opening in 2015 is that a function of the sort of communities or is that a reflection of changes to sales strategies or something to do with the mortgage side of the business? What's driven that those gains in 2015? I think you touched on it Nishu we have a better book of business today with the communities we've opened where they're located the quality of the buyers we are attracting and it’s having a positive impact on our can rate.
So I’d agree with that.
It's more that than the mortgage world is different than it was a year ago.
Got it.
Thanks a lot.
End of Q&amp;A At this time I would like to turn the call back over to management for any closing remarks.
Thank you for joining us for today's call and we look forward to sharing our continued progress with all of you in the future.
Have a great day and a great weekend.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s teleconference.
We thank you for your participation.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.